CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION the primary job of the Chairman is to be responsible for the Bunzls corporate governance framework is designed to facilitate leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that can aspects of its role while the Chief Executive is responsible for the safeguard shareholders interests and sustain the success of leadership and the operational and performance management the Company over the longer term.
In order to achieve this the of the Company within the strategy agreed by the Board.
Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the In September 2012 the Financial Reporting Council published the business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code a copy of which is available at www.
This contains broad the Chairman: principles together with more specific provisions which set out takes overall responsibility for the composition and capability standards of good practice in relation to Board leadership and of the Board and its Committees: effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
This report describes how these principles have been consults regularly with the Chief Executive and is available on a applied by the Company during the year ended 31 December 2013. flexible basis to provide advice, counsel and support to the Chief Since the Financial Conduct Authority has yet to change the Listing Executive: and Rules and therefore requires that certain compliance statements are ensures corporate governance is conducted in accordance made in relation to the predecessor edition of the Code, this report with current best practice, as appropriate to the Group.
addresses the requirements of both editions of the Code.
The Company confirms that it has complied throughout 2013 with the the Chief Executive: provisions of both editions of the Code.
manages the executive directors and the Groups management BOARD COMPOSITION and day-to-day activities: As at 31 December 2013 and as at the date of this report, the Board prepares and presents to the Board the strategy for growth was made up of nine members comprising a Chairman, a Chief in shareholder value: Executive, two other executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Brief biographical details of the directors are given on sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver page 38.
Jean-Charles Pauze and Meinie Oldersma were appointed the agreed strategy: to the Board as non-executive directors on 1 January and 1 April ensures that the Group has in place appropriate risk 2013 respectively and Ulrich Wolters retired from the Board management and control mechanisms: and following the Companys Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2013.
None of the Companys non-executive directors had any previous communicates with the Companys shareholders and analysts connection with the Company or its executive directors on on a day-to-day basis as necessary subject to an overview of appointment to the Board and all of them are considered by both the such matters by the Chairman.
Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent.
The Chairman and each of the non-executive directors have a breadth of The Chief Executive is also the designated member of the Board strategic, management and financial experience gained in each of responsible for environmental, social and governance matters their own fields in a range of multinational businesses.
In accordance and reports to the Board in relation to such matters.
with the terms of the Code each of the directors will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Peter Johnson is the senior independent director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the THE ROLE OF THE BOARD normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director To ensure directors maintain overall control over strategic, financial has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
He is and operational and compliance issues, the Board meets regularly also available to the other directors should they have any concerns throughout the year and has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are not appropriate to raise with the Chairman or which have which are required to be brought to it for decision.
Key aspects of the not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
Boards role include: The non-executive directors play a key role in corporate governance setting the Groups strategic aims and ensuring that the Company and accountability through both their attendance at Board meetings has the necessary capabilities to deliver the Groups strategy: and their membership of the various Board Committees.
The non-executive directors bring a broad and diverse range of business reviewing the Groups operating performance and approving the and financial expertise and experience to the Board which Groups financial results: complements and supplements the experience of the executive reviewing and approving larger capital expenditure and directors.
This enables them to evaluate information provided and acquisition divestment proposals and material increases to constructively challenge managements viewpoints, assumptions borrowing and loan facilities: and and performance.
overseeing the Groups risk management and internal controls The Board has appointed Audit, Remuneration and Nomination processes and procedures.
Committees all of which comply with the provisions of the Code and play an important governance role through the detailed work they There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman carry out to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to them.
Briefing and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members in agreed by the Board and encompasses the following parameters: advance of each meeting and, in respect of the Audit Committee, made available to the other directors.
Further information relating to the Board Committees is set out on pages 40 and 41.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED INFORMATION AND SUPPORT The Board has considered and authorised a number of potential Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief situational conflicts all of which relate to the holding of external Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, who directorships and have been entered on the Companys conflicts maintains a rolling programme of items for discussion by the Board register.
No actual conflicts have been identified during the year.
to ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and other key The Board considers that these procedures operate effectively.
issues are considered at the appropriate time.
The Board is supplied with full and timely information, including detailed AUDIT COMMITTEE financial information, to enable the directors to discharge their The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive responsibilities.
To enable informed decision making, briefing papers directors and is chaired by David Sleath who, as Chief Executive and are prepared and circulated to directors approximately one week formerly Group Finance Director of SEGRO plc and as a fellow of the before the scheduled Board meeting.
All directors have access to ICAEW, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is tasked with financial experience as required by the Code.
While the other ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and the Board directors are not members of the Committee, they normally attend is fully briefed on relevant legislative, regulatory and corporate meetings of the Committee by invitation together with the Head of governance developments.
Directors may also take independent Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor.
The professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge this Secretary to the Committee is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary.
to be necessary in the furtherance of their duties to discharge their Further details about the Audit Committee and the work undertaken responsibilities as directors.
by it during the year and prior to the publication of the Groups results for 2013 are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages The Board meets formally at least eight times a year and the Board 44 to 46.
Members attendance at the Committee meetings held calendar is planned to ensure that the directors discuss a wide range during the year is set out in the table on page 41.
The terms of topics throughout the year.
Normally at least two Board meetings of reference of the Committee, which were reviewed by the a year are held at or near Group locations in the UK and overseas Board during the year, are available on the Companys website, where the directors have the opportunity to meet and interact with www.
senior executives from different businesses within the Groups portfolio as well as observe the operations in situ.
During 2013 a REMUNERATION COMMITTEE number of the Groups senior executives made presentations to The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent the Board about a variety of different and diverse topics including non-executive directors and is chaired by the senior independent reviews of the post-acquisition performance of businesses acquired director, Peter Johnson.
While neither the Chairman of the Company in prior years, the Groups financing facilities and treasury policies, nor the Chief Executive are members of the Committee, they the Groups pension schemes and cyber risk.
normally attend meetings by invitation except when the Committee is considering matters concerning themselves.
The Secretary to the In addition to regular Board meetings, the directors meet annually Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group Human Resources.
to review and discuss the Groups overall strategy.
As part of this Further details of the Remuneration Committee, the Companys process, presentations are made by the Chief Executive and the remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out in the Directors heads of each of the business areas together with the Director of remuneration report on pages 47 to 67.
Members attendance at Corporate Development.
the Committee meetings held during the year is set out in the table on page 41.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which were All new directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board, reviewed and revised by the Board during the year, are available including meetings with senior management and visits to some on the Companys website.
They also receive a detailed information pack which includes details of directors duties and responsibilities, NOMINATION COMMITTEE procedures for dealing in Bunzls shares and a number of other Composition governance related issues.
Directors are continually updated on The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the the Groups businesses and their markets and the changes to the Company, who chairs the Committee unless the Committee is competitive and regulatory environments in which they operate.
dealing with the matter of succession of the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive and all of the non-executive directors.
Training and development needs of the Board are kept under review In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the majority of the and directors attend external courses where it is considered members are independent non-executive directors.
The Secretary appropriate for them to do so.
to the Committee is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Role The directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or The Committees principal role is to consider, and make could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly recommendations to the Board concerning, the composition of the may conflict, with the Companys interests.
In accordance with the Board and its Committees including proposed appointees to the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association allow Board, whether to fill any vacancies that may arise or to change the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise the number of Board members.
It is the Committees role to ensure and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
that the Board and its Committees maintain the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity to ensure their Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational and continued effectiveness.
or transactional conflicts which are then considered by the Board and, if considered appropriate, authorised accordingly.
A director is not however permitted to participate in such considerations or to vote in relation to their own conflicts.
40 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 The Committees responsibilities include: apply to the 2013 financial year.
Both the Board and the Committee recognise the importance of gender diversity throughout the Group.
reviewing the structure, size and composition including the Currently one of the nine Board members and one of the five skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and Executive Committee members are female.
The Committee aims to making recommendations to the Board with regard to any have a Board with a broad range of skills, backgrounds, experience proposed changes: and diversity and while the Committee will continue to follow a policy of ensuring that the best people are appointed for the relevant roles, nominating, for the approval of the Board, appropriate individuals the Committee recognises the benefits of greater diversity and will to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise having considered continue to take account of this when considering any particular candidates with relevant experience from a wide range of appointment.
However, the primary responsibility of the Committee backgrounds: and in selecting and recommending candidates to the Board when succession planning, taking into account the challenges and making new appointments is to ensure the strength of the Boards opportunities facing the Company and the background, skills composition and the overriding aim is to always select and and expertise that will be required on the Board in the future, recommend the best candidate for the position.
Although the Board and reviewing annually management succession planning has not set a formal target in relation thereto, it is the Boards aim processes in relation to the Companys senior executives.
to increase its level of female representation as part of the ongoing succession planning process.
Further information about the The Committee meets as necessary throughout the year to Companys workforce diversity is set out on page 34. discharge its responsibilities.
An external search consultancy which does not have any other connection with the Company is retained by The terms of reference of the Committee, which were reviewed by the Company to assess potential candidates to be considered as the Board during the year, are set out on the Companys website.
prospective non-executive directors and, when appropriate, executive directors.
This process was adopted in relation to the BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE appointments of both Jean-Charles Pauze and Meinie Oldersma as The following table shows the attendance in 2013 of directors at non-executive directors with effect from 1 January 2013 and 1 April Board meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which 2013 respectively.
The work undertaken by the Committee in they are members: connection with these appointments was carried out during 2012 and Audit Remuneration Nomination further information about the appointment process which was Board Committee Committee Committee followed can be found in the Corporate governance report set out in the 2012 Annual Report.
Number of meetings 8 5 5 5 Philip Rogerson 8 5 Activities Michael Roney 8 5 The Committee met on five occasions during 2013.
Members Ulrich Wolters 3 2 1 2 attendance at those meetings is set out in the table opposite.
Patrick Larmon 8 Peter Johnson 8 5 5 5 During the year the Committee reviewed and took account of the Brian May 8 balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board, David Sleath 8 5 5 5 the time commitment expected of the non-executive directors and Eugenia Ulasewicz 8 5 5 5 the conclusions of the formal evaluation process which was carried Jean-Charles Pauze 8 5 5 5 out when considering and recommending the nomination of directors for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
In particular the Meinie Oldersma 6 3 4 3 Committee reviewed the performance of Peter Johnson and David Ulrich Wolters retired as a director on 17 April 2013 having attended all of the Sleath, who were appointed to the Board in January 2006 and Board and Committee meetings held between 1 January 2013 and that date.
The Committee believes that they Meinie Oldersma was appointed as a director on 1 April 2013 and attended all continue to be effective and to demonstrate strong independence of the Board and Committee meetings held between that date and the end of in character and judgement in the manner in which they discharge the year.
Consequently the Committee is satisfied that, despite their respective lengths of tenure, they PERFORMANCE EVALUATION remain independent.
The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for the Board, its Committees and individual directors overseen by The Chief Executive presented his annual management succession the Chairman.
This includes individual discussions between the plan to the Committee.
The Company recognises that having the Chairman and each director when their individual training and right directors and senior management is crucial for the Groups development needs are reviewed.
Led by the senior independent success and it is a key task of the Committee to ensure that the director, the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman Company has a robust and continuous succession planning process.
present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance As part of the review in 2013 the Committee retained an external including a review of his other commitments to ensure that he is consultant to provide objective insight into the development of the able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his Companys senior executives.
The Chairman also periodically holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive As part of the review of the composition of the Board and the directors present.
All of these processes were carried out succession planning process, the Committee notes the publication satisfactorily during the year.
of the Davies Review on Women on Boards in February 2011 and the subsequent amendments which have been made to the Code which BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL In accordance with the requirements of the Code an external performance evaluation was carried out in 2012 and the results were The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group and for the subsequently presented to the Board.
The facilitator of the external evaluation, Lintstock, does not provide any other services to, or have Groups system of internal control relating to those risks.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the any other connection with, the Company.
Although the Code only requires that the evaluation of the Board and its Committees should risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material be externally facilitated at least every three years, it was decided to appoint Lintstock to carry out a further performance evaluation in misstatement or loss.
In accordance with Principle C. 2 of the Code and the related guidance, the Company has established the 2013.
By doing so, the Board was able to ensure that there was consistency and continuity in the evaluation process from one year procedures necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, managing and mitigating significant risks to to the next.
Following the evaluation, the Board agreed to implement a number of recommendations including: the Group and for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
The continuing the focus of the Nomination Committee on the directors confirm that such procedures have been in place for the year ended 31 December 2013 and up to the date of approval of these management succession plans for the Group, including in particular increased exposure to the Groups senior management financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
below Board level: Further information relating to how the directors maintain overall adapting the process followed as part of the Boards annual control over all significant strategic, financial, operational and strategy review to allow more discussion on the key strategic compliance issues is set out in the Role of the Board section issues facing the Group: and on page 39. reviewing in more detail the opportunities and threats presented In addition, the Board has delegated to an Executive Committee, by future developments in technology and how these might impact on the continuing success of the Group.
consisting of the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other functional managers, the responsibility for identifying, evaluating As a result of the overall performance evaluation process carried and monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding how these are managed and to establish a system of internal control out, the Board concluded that both it and its Committees are operating effectively.
appropriate to the business environments in which the Group operates.
The principal features of this system include: FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control The responsibilities of the directors in respect of the preparation of the Group and parent company financial statements are set system through a tiered management structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: out on page 116 and the auditors report on pages 117 and 118 includes a statement by the external auditor about their reporting clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment responsibilities.
As set out on page 29, the directors are of the and acquisitions: opinion that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared basis in preparing the financial statements.
annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: The process of preparing the Annual Report has included formal standards of business conduct including a code of ethics the following: and whistle blowing procedure based on honesty, integrity, fair dealing and compliance with the local laws and regulations of verification procedures, both internally and by the external auditor, the countries in which the Group operates: to deal with the factual content of the Annual Report: and a well established consolidation and reporting system for comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the Group the statutory accounts and monthly management accounts: in order to ensure the accuracy, consistency and overall balance of continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production the Annual Report.
of timely and accurate management information relating to the operation of the Groups businesses: and From the information and assurance provided by the ongoing work of the internal audit department, the reviews conducted by the external detailed manuals covering Group accounting policies and policies auditor in relation to both the half year and full year results, the and procedures for the Groups treasury operations supplemented Boards understanding of the Groups business and the information by internal control procedures at a business area level.
provided by the senior executive management team, the Board considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
42 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of effectiveness of the internal control system and to identify, manage the system of internal control and risk management in operation and mitigate business risk are listed below: during 2013. central management holds regular meetings with business area The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the system of including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the internal financial control and the data contained in the financial business areas and the policies and procedures by which these statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion risks are managed: on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
the Executive Committee meets twice per month and also reviews RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the outcome of the discussions held at business area meetings on The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with internal control and risk management issues: the half year results announced normally at the end of August and the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee the annual results announced normally at the end of February.
discussions on internal control and risk management issues which In addition the Company publishes two interim management ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability: statements a year as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
each business area, the Executive Committee and the Board carry out an annual fraud risk assessment: The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts with representatives of institutional shareholders and report to and the previous year and explanations obtained for all the Board the views of major shareholders.
Additional forms of significant variances: communication include presentations of the half year and annual results.
The Chairman and the senior independent director and all treasury activities, including in relation to the management of the other non-executive directors are available to meet with major foreign exchange exposures and Group borrowings, are reported shareholders on request.
The Board also periodically reviews and and reviewed monthly: discusses analysts and brokers reports and surveys of shareholder the Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on a opinions conducted by the Companys own brokers.
weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally: Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least the internal audit department periodically reviews individual 20 working days before the meeting.
All shareholders are encouraged businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve to participate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited to ask controls and follows up to ensure that management implement questions at the meeting and are given the opportunity to meet the recommendations made.
The internal audit departments work all of the directors informally.
Shareholders unable to attend is determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are are encouraged to vote using the proxy card mailed to them or reported to Group and business area management as well as to electronically as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders the Audit Committee and the external auditor: are given the option to withhold their vote on the proxy form.
As in an annual self-assessment of the status of internal controls previous years, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting each measured against a prescribed list of minimum standards is of the resolutions put to the meeting will be taken on a poll rather performed by every business and action plans are agreed where than on a show of hands as directors believe that a poll is more remedial action is required: representative of shareholders voting intentions because shareholder votes are counted according to the number of shares the Audit Committee, which comprises all of the independent held and all votes tendered are taken into account.
The results of the non-executive directors of the Company, meets regularly poll will be publicly announced and made available on the Companys throughout the year.
Further details of the work of the Committee, website as soon as practicable following the Annual General Meeting.
which includes a review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and the assurance procedures relating On behalf of the Board to the Companys risk management system, are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 44 to 46: Paul Hussey regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to Secretary assess the risks throughout the Group: 24 February 2014 a management committee, which oversees issues relating principally to environment, health & safety, insurance and business continuity planning matters, sets relevant policies and practices and monitors their implementation: risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress against objectives established by each business area are periodically carried out: and developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually monitored by Group management in association with external advisers.
