Corporate Governance Corporate Governance report Dear Shareholder, Carol has a strong track record as an exceptional partner The Boards role is to provide leadership to the Group to the business and the executive team.
to assist it in achieving its strategic aims, and to promote the long-term success of the Group for the benefit The year ahead will continue to be impacted by of its shareholders and those with whom we connect.
It will also bring For an iconic brand like Burberry with a 157 year heritage significant changes to the rules on directors remuneration guided by the values to protect, explore and inspire and narrative reporting.
Regardless of regulatory changes, we believe that this is an important responsibility.
I believe that as a global company it is our responsibility to continue to promote high standards of governance and With the integration of Burberry Beauty as the fifth reporting transparency.
The Board and I will endeavour product division and the continued focus on unlocking to ensure the Groups continued success as a dynamic the potential of the Groups digital platform, the Groups and well-governed business over the coming year.
business continues to grow dynamically in a global economic environment which remains uncertain.
Sir John Peace Consequently a key focus for the Board during the year Chairman has been on the execution of the Groups strategy as it has evolved to embrace new opportunities.
In particular, how the Group needs to manage and evolve its governance structures and people to support this Governance growth without undue risk to the Group and the Burberry The Board is collecti vely responsible for promoting Burberrys brand and culture.
long-term success, for setting its strategic aims and ensuring a framework of prudent and effective controls.
Last year I reported that the Board would be focusing on how to build on its relevant skills and competencies This report sets out the Boards approach and work during for the future.
This has been a considered focus of the the financial year 2012 13 and, together with the Directors Board during the year with the development of a Board Remuneration Report on pages 93 to 104, includes details succession plan.
The plan sets out a phased strategic of how the Company has applied and complied with the approach to refreshing the Board aimed at balancing principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance evolution with stability.
The plan aims are to maintain Code the Code.
The directors confirm that the Company current core competencies which reflect the evolution has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout of the Groups business and to promote diversity both the year.
in terms of gender and in the wider sense to reflect the global nature of the Group.
Our Board The Board currently consists of eight members the In February 2013 we announced the appointment Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Vice of John Smith as Chief Operating Officer.
With over President, Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer 20 years experience in the media industry, John brings and four independent non-executive directors.
A list a unique skill set in global brand management and of directors and their biographies is set out on page 76. new media, combined with strong financial and operational experience.
The Chairman, Sir John Peace, has led the Board as Chairman since 2002.
The Chairman is responsible We announced separately that Stacey Cartwright, for leading and managing the business of the Board and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, ensuring its effectiveness.
He sets the agenda for Board had decided to resign following over nine successful discussions and ensures that the Board receives accurate, years with the Group in order to pursue new interests.
timely and clear information, particularly in relation to the Stacey will step down from the Board at the conclusion Companys performance.
He promotes a culture of of the Groups Annual General Meeting on 12 July 2013. openness and trust which allows for debate and The Board would like to thank Stacey for her outstanding constructive challenge of the executive directors.
The Chairman works collaboratively with the Chief Executive Carol Fairweather will join the Board as an executive Officer, Angela Ahrendts, in setting the Board agenda director on 11 July 2013, and assumes the role of Chief and ensuring any actions agreed by the Board are Financial Officer on Staceys departure.
Carol has been effectively implemented.
with the Group for six years, mostly as Senior Vice President of Group Finance, where she has led the finance team.
82 Corporate Governance During the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact The Board is ultimately responsible for promoting the longand met with the Senior Independent Director and other term success of the Group.
The Board leads and provides non-executive directors outside of formal board meetings.
direction for management by setting strategy and overseeing The Chairman also met with the non-executive directors its implementation by management.
The Board is also without the executive directors being present.
responsible for oversight of the Groups systems of governance, internal control and risk management.
The Chairman is also responsible for the Companys performance to shareholders and has regular discussions Specific key decisions and matters have been reserved with the Companys main institutional shareholders.
for approval by the Board.
These include decisions on the Groups strategy, the annual budget and operating The major commitments of the Chairman are detailed plans, major capital expenditure and transactions, financial in his biography on page 76 and have not changed results, the dividend, the approval of risk appetite and other during the year.
The matters reserved for the Boards decision are set out in writing and available on the The Senior Independent Director, Philip Bowman, Companys website at burberryplc.
supports the Chairman in his role and leads the non-executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman.
Role of the Board Committees The Senior Independent Director is also available The Board is supported in its activities by a number as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
of committees including the following principal committees: Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration The Non-Executive Directors provide strong experience Committee.
All the non-executive directors are members and independent support to the Board.
They assist in the of each of the principal committees of the Board.
The Board development of strategy and provide constructive challenge believes this to be appropriate as the Board remains and support to management.
relatively small and ensures the linkage between the work of the Committees and the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer, Angela Ahrendts, is responsible for the management of the business, The terms of reference of each of the principal committees developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration can be viewed on the Companys website at burberryplc.
and approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer is assisted The Committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage by members of her senior management team who meet third-party consultants and independent professional regularly.
Members of the senior management team advisors and can call upon other resources of the Group are identified on page 164. to assist them in discharging their respective responsibilities.
In addition to the relevant committee members and the The Company Secretary, Catherine Sukmonowski, Company Secretary, external advisors and, on occasion, is responsible for supporting the Chairman in the delivery other directors and members of the senior management of the corporate governance agenda.
team attend committee meetings but only at the invitation of the Chairmen of the Committees.
Role of the Board Set out on pages 89 to 92 are reports from the Audit Bur berry continues to experience considerable growth and change.
The report of the With this success comes a responsibility fo r the Board to ensure we Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 93 to 104. gr ow in a controlled and sustainable way for our shareholders and wider stakeholders, and that we understand the associated risks.
Board Nomination Remuneration Audit Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Officer Risk Senior Committee Management Team Supply Chain Global Health and Global Ethics Risk Committee Safety Committee Committee 83 Corporate Governance Board effectiveness As a Board we strive to provide effective leadership that constructively challenges management but also supports Burberry in achieving its strategic aims.
Highlights of Board activities during 2012 13 During the year the Board held six scheduled meetings, including an in-depth two-day session on strategy.
Each Board member attended all scheduled meetings.
In addition, in April 2012 the Board spent five days visiting the Groups businesses in Asia, including in Shanghai, Tokyo, Taipei and Hong Kong.
Between meetings directors spend a significant amount of time on Board and Committee related matters.
The Board considers that it met sufficiently often to enable the directors to discharge their duties effectively.
The Board agendas were shaped to ensure that discussion was focused on the Groups strategic priorities, key monitoring activities, as well as reviews of significant issues.
In addition, to allow for opportunities for the Board to engage with senior management to discuss key elements of the business.
The table below gives the highlights of how the Board spent its time during 2012 2013 but is not an exhaustive list of topics covered.
Further information on the Groups strategic focus during the year is set out in the Strategic Themes section starting on page 32.
Month Strategy Business Focus Oversight and Risk Governance April Board visit to Groups Asia businesses five days.
May Consideration of opportunities Review of 2011 12 preliminary UK Governance Code and other for the Beauty business.
results announcement, Annual regulatory requirements for Report and Accounts and Annual Report.
Review of risk and internal controls Review of conflicts of interest.
July Integration of the AGM.
Business focus: Inventory planning and management.
September Annual strategy session Strategic risks and impact on the Investor relations update.
October November Integration of the Beauty business Review of 2012 13 interim results Investor relations update.
and update on various projects.
Review of risk, internal control framework and business controls.
Consideration of balance sheet strategy.
Review of audit plan for 2012 13 and reappointment of auditors.
Board and management succession matters.
Integration of the Beauty business.
UK Governance Code and regulatory compliance update.
Evaluating our performance in 2012 13 The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance and that of its Committees each financial year, with an external evaluation once every three-years.
The Board will undertake its next externally facilitated review during 2013 14.
One of the recommendations from last years review was that the Board should continue to consider its approach to assessing its effectiveness to ensure that it remained meaningful and reflected the collaborative nature of the Board.
Consequently this year the Board and Committees followed a more discursive approach to the review which encouraged the directors to express their views on any area of Board and Committee effectiveness.
Feedback from the evaluation was provided in the form of a written report to the Board followed by a discussion of the outcomes, led by the Chairman.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, also considered the performance of the Chairman without the Chairman present.
The Chairman was commended for his leadership and overall contribution to the Board.
84 Corporate Governance Below is a summary of the key views and recommendations identified in the 2012 13 Board effectiveness review and the actions taken in response to last years review.
Key Themes 2011 12 Review 2012 13 Review Views recommendations Actions taken Views recommendations Board To plan for the evolution of the Board composition has been a Strong support for the succession composition Board and to build on the Boards key focus during the year with the plan to refresh the Board over the relevant skills and competencies.
establishment of a Board next two years and alignment on succession plan see details core competencies required.
Board Committee To continue to strengthen the More opportunities for The right balance is being struck focus Boards contribution and impact engagement outside of formal between time spent on strategy, on overseeing strategy.
meetings and increased risks and monitoring.
interaction with a wide range To continue to offer opportunities Strong alignment of views on what of senior management see to engage with senior should be the strategic focus for Highlights of Board activities management responsible for the coming year.
during 2012 13 on page 84. key elements of the business Welcome continued opportunities and strategy.
for non-executive director engagement and interaction with senior management.
Board Committee To evolve the Boards approach A more discursive Board Overall the existing Board and effectiveness to assessing Board Committee Committee review process was Committee structure works well effectiveness.
followed to encourage open and and provides a good standard of meaningful discussion.
governance as well as support to management.
The Board operates with a high level of trust.
The table below gives details of directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31 March 2013.
Sir John Peace stepped down as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 12 July 2012.
John Smith stepped down as a member of the Committees on 3 March 2013.
He also recused himself from meetings where his proposed appointment as Chief Operating Officer was considered.
Any other absences were due to illness.
Time allocation Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of his or her directorship.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance of their duties.
This is expected to be approximately 20 days each year for basic duties.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are expected to spend additional time over and above this to discharge their added responsibilities.
External directorships The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
Details of the directors other directorships can be found in their biographies on page 76.
Board and Committee composition The non-executive directors are drawn from a wide range of industries and backgrounds, including retail, financial services, hotels and hospitality, marketing and media.
They have extensive experience of complex organisations with global reach including experience of the Groups key markets of Europe, the Americas and Asia.
Their varied yet relevant experience brings a wealth of insight to Board discussions and important support to the management team.
All the directors, with the exception of Stacey Cartwright, will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 12 July 2013.
85 Corporate Governance During the year, John Smith was appointed Chief Operating on diversity in Britains boardrooms, of a minimum of 25% Officer effective 4 March 2013.
In this newly created position, female representation on FTSE 100 boards by 2015.
John will focus on the operational execution of the Groups The Board will monitor diversity and take such steps as brand strategies in the fast moving digital and mobile it considers appropriate to maintain Burberrys position environment.
John has a unique skill set for this role, with as a meritocratic and diverse business.
his extensive experience in global brand management and new media, combined with a strong financial and operational The Board believes that it is critical that women are able background.
As John has served as a non-executive to succeed at all levels of the organisation.
Currently director on the Board since December 2009, his insights approximately 70% of the total workforce is female and will be invaluable to his new role.
John was not present at approximately 37% of management are female.
any Board or Committee meetings at which his proposed appointment was considered.
More broadly, diversity is at the heart of Group culture which is characterised by a meritocratic and collaborative Separately, Stacey Cartwright, Executive Vice President, ethos.
At our Group headquarters in London, 54 different Chief Financial Officer, has decided to resign after over nine nationalities are represented.
successful years with the Group in order to pursue new interests.
Stacey will step down from the Board at the The Company continues to focus on evolving its strategies conclusion of the Groups Annual General Meeting on for recruiting and developing key talent within the business 12 July 2013 and will finish her employment with the Group in a way which promotes the Groups cultural values and at the end of July.
Carol Fairweather will join the Board diverse and meritocratic environment.
See the Our People as an executive director on 11 July 2013, and assumes section on page 71. the role of Chief Financial Officer on Staceys departure.
Board tenure At the close of the Groups 2012 Annual General Meeting, David Tyler stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Sir John Peace stepped down as a member of the Committee.
Ian Carter was appointed as the new 0 5 years 5 10 years Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, while David 10 years or above Tyler continues to serve as a member of the Committee.
Board succession During the year the Nomination Committee has been focusing on how to evolve the Boards relevant skills and competencies for the future.
Following a review The balance of tenure of service of the directors is set by the Nomination Committee, the Board has established out in the diagram above.
At the time of the 2013 Annual a succession plan which sets out a phased strategic General Meeting, Sir John Peace, Philip Bowman and approach to refreshing the Board aimed at balancing David Tyler will have served on the Board for 11 years.
The plan aims for the Board to appoint up to four new non-executive directors by the The Board is satisfied that all of our non-executive directors end of 2014, with the expectation that a number of existing are independent.
The performance of Philip Bowman, David non-executive directors will step down from the Board.
Tyler and Stephanie George has been subject to a rigorous review including with regard to their independence.
All new Board appointments will be based on merit.
The Board has concluded that they contribute valuable The Board composition principles are to maintain current insight and experience to Board deliberations and continue core competencies, to add new competencies which reflect to provide independent and constructive challenge to the evolution of the Groups business, to ensure the executive directors.
On that basis and keeping in compatibility with Burberrys culture and values and mind the need to ensure a smooth succession as part to promote diversity including in terms of gender.
of the Board succession plan, the Board concluded that these directors remain effective non-executive directors.
Diversity and inclusion Board succession planning is focused on ensuring the right Information flow and professional development mix of skills and experience for the Board.
The Board The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary believes in the importance of diverse Board membership.
in the planning of the agendas and schedule of Board and Committee meetings and in ensuring that information is Of the eight directors currently on the Board, three are made available to Board members on a timely basis and women including two of the executive directors comprising is of a quality appropriate to enable the Board to effectively 37% of total membership.
This means that our Board discharge its duties.
already reflects the goal as set out in Lord Davies report 86 Corporate Governance As set out in the table Highlights of Board activities during The Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, 2012 13 on page 84, the Board is kept up to date on legal, Chief Financial Officer give presentations to institutional regulatory, compliance and governance matters through shareholders and analysts immediately following the advice and regular papers from the Company Secretary, release of the half and full year results which are then the General Counsel and other advisors.
made available on the Groups website at burberryplc.
The Groups Investor Relations department acts as the centre The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing for ongoing communication with investors and analysts.
and facilitating a tailored induction programme for new directors and their ongoing training.
The Chairman considers The Chairman also maintains a regular dialogue with the training needs of directors on an ongoing basis.
major shareholders to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and communicates their views to the The Board have direct access to the advice and services other members of the Board.
During the year a combination of the Company Secretary and the appointment and of our Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved Vice President, Chief Financial Officer met with 16 of our for the Board as a whole.
Directors may also obtain, top 20 investors.
The Senior Independent Director and in the furtherance of their duties, independent professional all the other non-executive directors are available to meet advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
The Group also conducts regular independent investor audits of its major investors through Re-election of directors Makinson Cowell, a capital markets advisory firm, to gauge At the Annual General Meeting in 2012, all directors offered investor perception.
Each director was re-elected and no director received less than 94% in favour of the votes Effective internal controls cast.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2013, all of the The Group has a clear and consistent strategy as reflected continuing directors with the exception of Stacey Cartwright, in its key strategic themes.
The strategy has been developed will again retire and all will offer themselves for re-election.
to exploit identified opportunities through a diversified Carol Fairweather will offer herself for election.
Where material risks have been identified within our business, the Group has implemented The Board believes that each of the directors standing an appropriate internal control environment to endeavour for re-election or election are effective and accordingly, to mitigate such risks.
the Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2013 Annual The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system General Meeting relating to the re-election or election of internal controls and risk management, and it discharges of the directors.
its duties in this area by: determining the nature and extent of the significant risks Managing conflicts of interest it is willing to accept in achieving the Groups strategic All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 objectives the Boards risk appetite : and to avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict ensuring that management implement effective systems of interest with the Company and the Group.
of risk identification, assessment and mitigation.
Under the Groups Articles of Association, the Board The Audit Committee has been delegated the has the authority to approve situational conflicts of interest responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups and has adopted procedures to manage and, where internal controls.
The Audit Committee uses information appropriate, to approve such conflicts.
Authorisations drawn from a number of different sources to carry out this granted by the Board are recorded by the Company responsibility including: Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board objective assurance provided by Internal Audit through at its next meeting.
its annual work plan, which is approved by the Audit Committee and focuses on the principal risks identified A review of situational conflicts which have been authorised in the risk assessment and key internal controls: is undertaken by the Board annually.
Following the last review, the Board concluded that the conflicts had been regular reports to the Audit Committee from executive appropriately authorised and that the process for management and key Group support functions detailing authorisation continued to operate effectively.
their risk management and compliance approaches and highlighting any significant issues: Engagement with shareholders key outcomes from discussions at the Group The Board believes that effective leadership also involves Risk Committee: and maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with shareholders and other stakeholders, and seeks to achieve further objective assurance is provided by this in various ways including at the Annual General Meeting.
87 Corporate Governance The internal control framework has been in operation for the reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
whole of the year under review and continues to operate up In view of Internal Audits recommendations, management to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
agrees and implements corrective action plans, which are The system of internal controls is designed to manage tracked to completion by Internal Audit, with the results rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business reported to executive management, the Audit Committee objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not and the Board.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As part of the Boards consideration of the principal risks The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed facing the Group, Internal Audit facilitate a risk assessment the assessment of risks and the Groups internal control process in each key business area and global support framework and has considered the effectiveness of the function to review the significant risks facing its operations system of internal control in operation in the Group for and to record the relevant controls and any actions in place the year covered by the Annual Report and Accounts and to mitigate the risks.
The materiality of the risk is measured up to the date of its approval by the Board.
This covered based on financial and non-financial criteria, and the all material controls including financial, operational probability of the risk arising is also mapped.
The detailed and compliance controls and risk management systems.
assessments are then consolidated to provide input into The process followed by the Board in reviewing the system the Group risk assessment.
This process also enables of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal Internal Audit to engage with senior management throughout control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
It also accords the business on risk monitoring and management.
with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
There are areas of the Groups business where it is necessary Group approach to managing risks to accept risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, The Group has an integrated approach to risk management such risks reflecting the Boards overall appetite for risk.
and internal controls to ensure that its review of risk is used During 2012 13 the Audit Committee, in conjunction with to inform the internal audit process and the design of the full Board, considered and reviewed the nature and internal controls.
It is the Groups objective to apply expertise to prudently manage rather than eliminate such A detailed three-year strategic plan and annual budget risks including keeping them under frequent review.
process provides the principal metrics against which the performance of the Group is measured.
The strategic For details of the principal risks which may adversely plan and budget are agreed with the Board together with impact the performance of the Group and the execution defined performance targets and risks to delivery.
The plan of its growth strategies and the steps the Group takes and the principal risks for delivering the strategy also form to address these risks where they are matters within Group part of the Boards annual review of Group strategy.
control, see the Principal Risks section on pages 60 to 63.
Executive management assess risk on a regular basis Financial reporting through the Group Risk Committee which meets at least Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining three times per year and reports any key findings to the adequate internal controls over financial reporting.
The Group Risk Committee evaluates These controls are designed to provide reasonable risk through reports made to it by Internal Audit and assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting other assurance teams and management committees.
and the preparation of financial statements for external The Committee benefits from cross-functional membership reporting purposes.
encompassing senior management of key areas such as IT, Finance, Legal, Brand Protection, Company Secretariat, The Group has comprehensive planning, budgeting, Corporate Responsibility, Human Resources, Supply Chain forecasting and monthly reporting processes in place.
and a number of assurance functions.
These meetings are A summary of the Groups financial results supported attended by the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial by commentary and performance measures is provided Officer and or the Chief Executive Officer as well as the to the Board each month.
Director of Audit and Risk Assurance.
In relation to the preparation of the Group financial The executive directors also meet with senior management statements, the controls in place include: on a regular basis to discuss performance, operational and a centre of expertise responsible for reviewing new budget issues to identify any emerging risks to achieving developments in reporting requirements and standards the budget and strategic plan.
to ensure that these are reflected in Group accounting policies: All internal audit activity is conducted by the Internal Audit team under the leadership of the Director of Audit and Risk a dedicated finance governance team who are Assurance, who reports to the Executive Vice President, responsible for developing the Groups financial control Chief Financial Officer, but also has an independent 88 Corporate Governance processes and procedures and implementing them across the Group: and Report of the Audit Committee a global finance structure consisting of employees with Dear Shareholder, the appropriate expertise to ensure that Group policies and procedures are correctly applied.
Effective The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity management and control of the finance structure of financial information and to provide assurance is achieved through the finance leadership team, to the Board that the Groups internal controls and risk consisting of key finance employees from the region management systems are appropriate and regularly and corporate headquarters.
reviewed, together with overseeing the work of the external auditors, approving their remuneration and recommending The reporting process is supported by transactional and their appointment.
Reviews of the applications of controls for external reporting purposes are carried out As the external environment continues to be challenging, by senior finance management.
The results of these reviews during the year the Committee continued to focus are considered by the Board as part of its monitoring on ensuring that the Groups systems and controls of the performance of controls around financial reporting.
are operating effectively, are responsive to this external environment and are evolving in line with the Groups The Audit Committee reviews the application of financial growth including the integration of the Beauty business.
reporting standards and any significant accounting judgements made by management.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
In addition to the usual work of the Committee as set Control environment out on page 90 the Committee considered the following The Groups business model is based primarily on a central specific matters.
design, supply chain and distribution operation to supply products to global markets, via retail and wholesale The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
This is reflected in the internal control framework The accounting treatment and progress of the integration which includes central direction, resource allocation, of the fragrance and beauty business.
oversight and risk management of the key activities of marketing, inventory management, brand and technology Impairment assessment for property, plant and equipment.
This includes central support in relation The recoverability of the cost of inventory and the resulting to legal, brand protection, human resources, information amount of provisioning required.
The impairment assessment of trade receivables, having The Group has established procedures for the delegation taken into account the changes in global economic of authorities to ensure that approval for matters that conditions during the year.
are considered significant is considered and given at The Groups tax strategy and the assumptions an appropriate level, either because of their value or their and judgements applied in order to estimate the amount materiality to the Group.
In addition the Group has policies of corporation tax and deferred tax to be recognised and procedures in place that are designed to support risk at the period end.
These authorities, policies and procedures are kept under review as the Group The calculation of the fair value of the put option continues to grow.
These include policies relating over the non-controlling interest in the Groups business to treasury, the conduct of employees and third parties in China.
with which the Group conducts business including prohibiting bribery and corruption.
Where these matters related to the financial statements for the period, the Committee reviewed the approach, Accountability and audit the estimates and judgements applied, the recommendation The Board is required to present a balanced and of management and the findings of the external auditors.
understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects in the Annual Report and in interim and other The Committee has a constructive and open relationship public reports.
The Board is satisfied that it has met this with management and we thank them for their assistance obligation.
A summary of the directors responsibilities for during the year.
the financial statements is set out on page 106 and includes a statement regarding the Groups status as a going concern Philip Bowman as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Chairman, Audit Committee Report of the Auditors on page 107 includes a statement by the auditors concerning their reporting responsibilities.
89 Corporate Governance Committee membership Financial Controller, the Vice President of Group Tax The following directors served as members of the and the External Auditors.
Committee throughout the year ending 31 March 2013: The Board is satisfied that Philip Bowman as Chairman has Members Appointment Date recent and relevant financial experience and that all other Philip Bowman Chairman 21 June 2002 Committee members have past employment experience in Ian Carter 18 May 2007 either finance or accounting roles or broad experience and Stephanie George 19 May 2006 knowledge of financial reporting and or international John Smith 2 February 2010 businesses.
Details of their experience can be found in their David Tyler 21 June 2002 biographies on page 76.
John Smith resigned as a member of the Committee on 3 March 2013.
Role of the Committee The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
are set out in written terms of reference which are available The attendance record of Committee members is recorded on the Companys website at burberryplc.
In addition to the scheduled The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually.
meetings the Chairman of the Committee meets separately In light of its key responsibilities, the Committee considered with the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer the following items of usual business during the financial and the Director of Audit and Risk Assurance on a regular year as set out in the table below.
basis including prior to each meeting.
External auditors Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include: The Committee oversees the work undertaken the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, by  LLP.
During the year the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, the the Committee met with the external auditors without Director of Audit and Risk Assurance, the Chief Corporate members of management being present.
Affairs Officer & General Counsel, the Company Secretary, the Senior Vice President Group Finance, the Group Key Committee Roles and Responsibilities Usual Business Conducted During 2012 13 Financial Reports: Review of the Annual Report and Accounts, annual financial statements, The integrity of the Groups financial preliminary announcement, and interim announcement.
statements and formal announcements of the Assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern for the Groups performance.
Consideration of the report of the external auditors on the financial statements for the year, and on the year end audit.
Ensuring compliance with relevant regulations for financial reporting and UK Governance Code.
Risks and Internal Controls: Review of the Groups statement in the Governance Report on internal controls The Groups internal financial, operational and and risk management.
compliance controls and risk identification and Review of business risk assessments.
Review of Group policies Treasury Policy review and compliance.
for identifying and assessing risks and arrangements for employees to raise concerns in confidence Health and safety reviews.
Review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Internal Audit: Consideration of the result of internal audits and management responses Review of the annual internal audit programme to the findings.
and the consideration of findings of any internal Approval of the internal audit plan for 2013 14. investigations and managements response.
Review of effectiveness of the internal audit function.
External Auditors: Review and approval of the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the Recommending the appointment of external auditors, Groups external auditors  LLP for the 2012 13 financial approving their remuneration and overseeing their year see below.
Policies on the engagement of the external Review and approval of the audit plan for the year presented by the Groups auditors for the supply of non-audit services.
Consideration of the key areas of risk and the audit approach applied to these areas, the proposed areas of coverage of the audit, changes of scope and areas of risk in the current year plan and the resource plan.
Review of all non-audit services provided by the Groups auditors during the period and the fees relating to the services provided see below on page 91.
90 Corporate Governance Appointment and fees Committee.
Such fees must be activity based and not The Committee has primary responsibility for making success related.
At the half year and year end, the Audit a recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and Committee reviews all non-audit services provided by the removal of the external auditors.
The Committee assesses auditors during the period and the fees relating to such on an annual basis the qualifications, expertise, resources services.
If during the year Group expenditure for non-audit and independence of the external auditors and the services exceeds 1.0m, all further requests for work must effectiveness of the previous audit process.
Over the be referred to the Chairman of the Committee.
course of the year, the Committee has reviewed the audit process and the quality and experience of the audit During the year, the Group spent 0.8m on non-audit partners engaged in the audit.
The Committee also services provided by  LLP.
reviewed the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement Further details can be found in note 5. for the 2012 13 financial year.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditors during the financial year can be found in note 5 in the financial statements.
Report of the Nomination Committee  LLP have remained in place Dear Shareholder, as auditors since prior to the IPO of the Company in 2002.
They were reappointed with a new lead audit partner The role of the Nomination Committee is to: following a formal tender process undertaken by the review the balance and composition of the Board and Group for the 2010 11 financial year.
The external auditors its Committees, ensuring that they remain appropriate: are required to rotate the audit engagement partner every five years.
The current audit partner commenced his be responsible for overseeing the Boards succession engagement for the 2010 11 financial year and is not planning requirements including the identification and subject to rotation until after the audit of the Groups assessment of potential Board candidates and making financial statements for the 2014 15 financial year recommendations to the Board for its approval: and has been concluded.
keep under review the leadership needs of, and succession planning for, the Group in relation to both During the year, the Committee approved the its executive directors and other senior executives.
reappointment, remuneration and terms of engagement This includes the consideration of recommendations of  LLP as the Groups external made by the Chief Executive Officer for changes to auditor.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the executive membership of the Board.
it proposes to shareholders that  LLP be reappointed as the Groups external auditors at During 2012 13 the Committee has focused on the the Groups forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Non-audit services Executive succession planning.
The outcome of this The Committee recognises that the independence was the appointment on 4 March 2013 of John Smith of the external auditors is an essential part of the audit in the new role of Chief Operating Officer.
In addition, framework and the assurance that it provides.
the appointment of Carol Fairweather to succeed The Committee has adopted a policy which sets out Stacey Cartwright as Chief Financial Officer when a framework for determining whether it is appropriate Stacey finishes her tenure.
to engage the Groups auditors for non-audit services.
Board succession planning with the establishment Key considerations are whether the services: of a Board succession plan to implement a phased approach to refreshing the Board over the next two are naturally tangential to the audit and which the years, aimed at balancing evolution with stability auditors are best placed to provide: see Board succession on page 86. cannot be regarded as naturally tangential to the audit, The consideration of Board composition principles but where the external auditors are in a position to including in relation to diversity as part of the provide the best service to the Group due to their succession plan.
previous experience, network within and knowledge of the Group, or market leadership in a particular area: and Board succession and composition will remain a priority for represent a real threat to the perceived independence of the coming year as the Board executes its succession plan.
Sir John Peace Under the policy, the auditors may provide non-audit Chairman, Nomination Committee services that do not prejudice their independence, subject to prior approval as set out in the policy.
Proposed fees above a certain level must be approved by the Audit 91 Corporate Governance Committee membership Annual General Meeting The following directors served as members of the As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, Committee throughout the year ended 31 March 2013: the Notice of the 2012 Annual General Meeting was sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Members Appointment Date meeting.
A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions Sir John Peace Chairman 21 June 2002 put before shareholders.
All directors attended the 2012 Angela Ahrendts 23 March 2007 Annual General Meeting and the Chairman of the Board Philip Bowman 21 June 2002 and the Chairmen of each of the Committees were available Ian Carter 18 May 2007 to answer shareholders questions.
Stephanie George 23 March 2007 John Smith 2 February 2010 Voting at the upcoming 2013 Annual General Meeting David Tyler 23 March 2007 will be by way of poll.
The results of the voting at the Annual General Meeting will be announced and details John Smith resigned as a member of the Committee on 3 March 2013. of the votes will be available to view on the Groups website at burberryplc.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Role of the Committee The main roles and responsibilities of the Nomination It is the intention that all directors, including the Chairmen Committee are set out in written terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, which are available on the Companys website at will attend the 2013 Annual General Meeting and will be burberryplc.
The Committee reviews its terms available to answer shareholders questions.
Other governance disclosures Activities during the year Tax policy The Nomination Committee met three times during The Group is committed to complying with global the year under review.
The table on page 85 gives details tax regulations in a responsible manner with due regard of directors attendance at these meetings.
to governments and shareholders, and to engage in open and constructive relationships with tax authorities Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include in the territories in which it operates.
The Groups tax the Chief Corporate Affairs Officer & General Counsel planning is consistent with this responsible approach, and the Company Secretary.
and it will not enter into arrangements which have tax avoidance as their sole objective.
All directors have, since the 2011 Annual General Meeting, offered themselves for annual re-election in accordance Tax governance framework with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The continuing The finance leadership team, led by the Executive Vice directors, with the exception of Stacey Cartwright, will President, Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for the do so again at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Groups tax policy and for the implementation of its tax Carol Fairweather will offer herself for election.
This is reviewed on an ongoing basis as part of the regular financial planning cycle.
In addition, the The biographical details of the current directors can Groups tax status is reported regularly to the Group be found on page 76 of this Annual Report.
The Audit Committee is responsible confirms that, following the internal evaluation during for monitoring all significant tax matters.
Audit Committee the year led by the Chairman, the performance of each meetings are occasionally attended by a number of of the directors standing for re-election continues to be Group officers and employees including the Executive Vice effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles, President, Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President Group including commitment of time for Board and Committee Tax and the Chief Corporate Affairs Officer & General meetings and any other duties.
Counsel, who oversees all corporate responsibility matters.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Share capital directors, including the expected time commitment, are Further information about the Companys share capital, available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
including substantial shareholdings, can be found in the Directors Report on pages 78 to 81.
