CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS.
OUR APPROACH TO GOOD GOVERNANCE THE BOARD AND HOW WE OPERATE As a company, we continue to strive towards the highest The Boards primary responsibility is to promote standards of corporate governance and we review our thelongterm success of the company by determining compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code thecompanys strategic objectives and monitoring the Code and associated policies on an annual basis.
managements performance against those objectives.
We believe good governance is the foundation for Inthe context of this framework, the Board is cognisant building trusted relationships and ensuring sound of the impact of each of its decisions on the Groups decision making processes.
During the year we have stakeholders, including employees, shareholders and made a number of changes to enhance the companys society as a whole.
One of the key focuses of this years review was a review of the companys delegated The Board is led by the Chairman, John Stewart, authority structure which is discussed in more detail and theday-to-day management of the organisation onpage 57. is led byNigel Wilson, the group chief executive.
The Board has seen a number of changes during the Our statement of compliance with the Code is set out year: the appointment of Mark Gregory as group chief inmore detail on the following pages.
financial officer, the appointments of both Lindsay Tomlinson and Lizabeth Zlatkus as non-executive directors and the retirements of Nick Prettejohn, Dame Clara Furse and Henry Staunton.
Due to the businesses evolving strategy, the Board ismindful of the need to keep its composition under review in order to ensure that we continue to maintain the right balance of skills, experience and diversity to lead the Board Composition company through the next phase of its growth.
The chart to the left demonstrates the composition of the Board including the balance between executive and non-executive directors, tenure of non-executive 1 directors and gender diversity.
2 The Board meets formally on a regular basis.
There 3 2 were nine scheduled meetings in 2013 as well as a two day strategy event at which the Board considered the companys future strategy in light of the Groups five key 6 drivers of growth.
A table showing director attendance 4 at Board meetings is set out on page 59.
The work of 9 the Board follows an annual work plan and the Board monitors the performance of the Group through regular: Reports from the group chief executive providing a groupwide business review 2 Reports from the group chief financial officer on the Groups current financial position Reviews of detailed management information packs Gender Balance of executive Length of tenure of showing performance against key metrics, project split and non-executive directors non-executive directors updates, and customer claims data Female 2 Chairman 1 less than a year 2 Updates from each of the following business areas: Male 9 Executive directors 4 1-3 years 2 Non-executive 6 3-6 years 3 Legal & General Retirement: Legal & General Investment Management: and Legal & General Assurance Society Legal and Governance reports from the group general counsel and company secretary 56 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p050-069.
indd 56 14 03 2014 20:58 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS Our governance framework Group annual strategic plan and review The Board operates within a clearly dened schedule ofperformance against those goals of matters reserved for the Board.
During the year, the Material transactions, acquisitions, mergers, Board undertook a review of the matters reserved and disposals, joint ventures, take-over bid approaches the delegated authority framework in order to assist Changes to the capital structure the Board in delivering its responsibilities, to improve Financial reporting and dividends decision making processes through the organisation and Risk appetite and systems of internal control to enhance independent oversight of internal control and andriskmanagement processes risk management.
As part of this review, revised terms Corporate governance policies of reference were adopted for each of the committees Appointment or removal of key personnel within the governance framework: the schedule of andremuneration policies matters reserved for the Board was rened and work is Material projects or contracts under way to implement schedules of delegation for the Material new product distribution and group chief executive, group chief financial officer and pricing arrangements divisional chief executive ofcers.
The matters requiring Board approval include, amongst others: THE BOARDS AGENDA: KEY AREAS OF FOCUS IN 2013 EVOLVING GROUP STRATEGY STAKEHOLDERS TALENT MANAGEMENT BUSINESS AREAS The Board continues In considering strategy, Developing talent from The Board recognises the to focus onprogressing the Board recognises within the organisation contribution made by each the companys strategic the impact itsdecisions remains a key focus for of the separate business objectives through strong may have on eachof its the company.
The Board divisions and the importance organic growth and stakeholder groups.
During is provided with regular of understanding the selective acquisitions.
the year, the Board gave updates in respect of the workings of each of these Strategy remains a primary particular consideration progress made in embedding divisions.
During the year, focus of the Boards agenda to employee matters talent management the Board carried out a and was also the subject including theresults of the processes and building the deep dive analysis of the of discussion at a two-day annual employee survey, development structure following business units: strategy event attended customers, Government forfuture leaders.
Board Legal & General America, by all Board members.
bodies and wider society as members continue to mentor Legal & General Property The Board has overseen part of its corporate social those individuals who have and Legal & General increased mergers and responsibility agenda.
been selected to participate Investment Management, acquisitions activity in leadership programmes.
including the index funds during 2013, including the and xed income divisions.
completion of four material acquisitions.
TheBoard reviews significant transactions and assesses whether these are aligned with the Groups strategy while also considering their respective risk proles.
indd 57 14 03 2014 20:58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS.
Induction, training and development BOARD VISITS The Board places great value on training and development and the group company secretary The Board also has in place a programme of site supports the Chairman in providing tailored induction visitstoensure that members of the Board have programmes for new directors and continuing a fullunderstanding of the business operations development programmes for existing directors.
in each location, have an opportunity to meet staff in different locations and to experience first hand On joining the Board as non-executive directors, the local culture and ethos.
LindsayTomlinson and Lizabeth Zlatkus were provided with comprehensive induction packs containing core business information and were invited to attend a series of meetings with executive management and other senior LONDON BOARD members of the management team.
These meetings MEETINGS were focused specically on understanding the different business areas and operations and tookplace across a number of different site locations.
Mark Gregory, DECEMBER 2012 APRIL 2013 on appointment as group chief financial officer, was also HOVE AMERICA provided with a tailored induction programme to support SITE VISIT SITE VISIT the transition into his new role.
The basis of this induction was a series of tailored one-to-one meetings with senior members of the risk, internal audit, finance, tax and JUNE 2012 investor relations teams as well as an in-depth handover KINGSWOOD SITE VISIT with the interim chief financial officer and introductory meetings with the external auditor andcorporate brokers.
LINDSAY TOMLINSON, In 2013, the Board visited the Legal & General America NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR LGA ofce.
Over the course of the visit, the Board met with members of the senior management team The induction process was well whoprovided the Board with in-depth briengs on the organised andcomprehensive.
Besides workings of both the LGA business and Legal & General meeting many members of the senior Investment Management America business.
The Board management team in Coleman Street, also participated in an operational tour of the business Iwas also encouraged to visit other giving them the opportunity to observe the various ofcelocations.
It was very useful teams in action and to meet with employees.
to visit both Kingswood and Hove and to have theopportunity to meet with The overseas ofce visit comprised the following: a variety ofpeople from across the business.
This really helped me to Board meeting focused on the US businesses appreciate the strong ethical culture A tour of the LGA operations providing a valuable which exists throughout theorganisation.
opportunity for employees to meet and speak inperson with the Group Board Deep dive session in to the LGIM America business Dinner with the LGA Board and LGIM America Ongoing training, we believe, is an essential component representatives.
The Board used this session to discuss the businessesstrategy and future to maintaining an effective and knowledgeable Board.
growth plans The Chairman continues to meet regularly with each of the non-executive directors to agree training anddevelopment plans and all directors are invited toattend internally hosted executive business awareness sessions.
Topics covered during the year have included an Overview of the Legal & General Investment Management business, Managing conduct risk and Corporate social responsibility.
indd 58 14 03 2014 20:58 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS Assessing our effectiveness followed by discussion.
The review focused onthe The effectiveness of the Board is fundamental to following areas: thesuccess of the company and the annual Board evaluation process provides the directors with an Time management and composition opportunity to reect on their collective and individual Expertise of the Board committee members performance.
Throughout the year, the Board has Board and committee dynamics continued to build on the recommendations from Processes and support the2012external evaluation facilitated by KPMG LLP Oversight and good progress has beenmade in implementing Succession planning those recommendations.
In particular: Priorities for change The Board agenda was reviewed and rened to The evaluation concluded that the Board was effective prioritise strategic proposals to allow more time overall while recognising scope for improvement in for discussion, debate and challenge several areas.
In particular, the review resulted in the Management information packs were reviewed following recommendations: and refreshed to highlight progress against key performance indicators, strategic initiatives and Board packs and management information Further risk appetite enhance the format of Board papers to ensure that the Each executive director continues to provide information provided is specic and concise and an update on their respective business areas at provides the information necessary for the Board to each Board meeting increasing each directors discharge decision making responsibilities effectively contribution to discussion, debate and challenge Overseas and off-site Board meetings The company secretary should continue to facilitate a In2013, the Chairman determined that an internally programme of overseas and off-site Board meetings facilitated evaluation would be themost effective in order to increase the Boards knowledge of each method for assessing performance, particularly in light of the Groups key business divisions of the Board changes that had taken place during the Strategic planning The Board should more year.
The evaluation was facilitated by the group general frequently revisit the progress on the discussions counsel and company secretary andthe performance of undertaken during the annual strategy day at the Board as a whole, the committees and the individual appropriate points during the year directors were evaluated.
The review process was Stakeholder views The Board should continue conducted using a series oftailored questionnaires to receive regular updates on the evolving views of all key stakeholder groups BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDANCE Appointment Audit Nominations Remuneration Group Risk Director Date Board 9 Committee 4 Committee 6 Committee 8 Committee 4 J Stewart 1 January 2010 9 9 6 6 M Fairey 1 May 2011 8 9 4 4 6 6 8 8 1 Dame C Furse 1 June 2009 3 3 2 3 1 1 M J Gregory 28 January 2009 9 9 R Markham 4 October 2006 9 9 6 6 8 8 J B Pollock 11 December 2003 9 9 S Popham 1 July 2011 9 9 5 6 7 8 3 4 2 N Prettejohn 2 November 2010 3 4 1 2 3 3 3 4 1 1 3 H E Staunton 1 May 2004 4 4 2 2 3 3 1 1 4 L Tomlinson 1 May 2013 6 6 2 2 2 3 5 5 3 3 J Wilson 9 November 2011 9 9 4 4 6 6 3 3 N D Wilson 1 September 2009 9 9 M Zinkula 18 September 2012 9 9 5 L Zlatkus 1 December 2013 1 1 1 1 1.
Retired with effect from 1 May 2013.
Retired with effect from 6 June 2013.
Retired with effect from 22 May 2013.
Appointed with effect from 1 May 2013.
Appointed with effect from 1 December 2013.
indd 59 14 03 2014 20:58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE For the year ended 31 December 2013, we are pleased to report that the company has complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
EFFECTIVENESS C. ACCOUNTABILITY D. REMUNERATION E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS A1 The Boards role B1 The Boards composition B5 Provision of information C1 Financial and business reporting D1 Levels and elements of remuneration E1 Shareholder engagement The Board met formally nine times during the The Nominations Committee is responsible andsupport The strategic report can be located on pages The company aims to reward employees fairly anddialogue year and the Boards agenda prioritised strategy forregularly reviewing the composition of the The Chairman, in conjunction with the 1 to 49, and this sets out the performance and our remuneration philosophy seeks to link The Board takes an active role in and performance.
There is a clear schedule of Board.
In making appointments to the Board, company secretary, ensures that all ofthecompany, the business model, reward to performance, thereby aligning the engaging with both institutional and matters reserved for the Board and schedules theCommittee considers the wide range of Board members receive accurate and strategy andthe risks and uncertainties interests of the directors and shareholders.
The Board particularly ofdelegation, as further described on page 57. skills, knowledge, experience, backgrounds timely information.
relating to thecompanys future prospects.
values opportunities to meet with andperspectives required in order to maintain shareholders and the Chairman seeks an effective Board.
to ensure that the Board are kept apprised of shareholder views.
A2 A clear division of responsibilities B2 Board appointments B6 Board and Committee C2 Risk management and internal D2 Development of remuneration E2 Constructive use of the AGM The roles of the Chairman and group chief The appointment of new directors to the Board performance evaluation control systems policy and packages The AGM provides the Board with executive are clearly dened and the scope isled by the Nominations Committee.
Further The Board undertook an internal The Board sets the companys risk appetite Details of the work of the Remuneration animportant opportunity to meet of those roles is reviewed on an annual basis.
details of the appointments undertaken during evaluation during 2013.
Details of the andannually reviews the effectiveness of Committee and the approach to setting the withshareholders, in particular retail John Stewart, the Chairman, is responsible for the year and succession planning can be found evaluation can be found on page 59. thecompanys risk management and internal remuneration policy can be found in the shareholders, who are invited to meet the leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
on pages 62 to 63. control systems.
The activities of the Audit Directors Remuneration Report on page 70. with the Board following the formal Nigel Wilson, the group chief executive, andGroup Risk Committees, which assist the business of the meeting.
is responsible for leading the day-to-day Board with its responsibilities in relation to risk management of the company within the setting and management, are set out on pages strategy set by the Board.
A3 Role of the Chairman B3 Time commitments B7 Re-election of the directors C3 Role and responsibilities The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, On appointment, directors are notied of the All directors were subject to shareholder of the Audit Committee manages the meeting timetable and facilitates timecommitment expected from them which election or re-election at the 2013 AGM, The Board has delegated a number of open and constructive dialogue during inpractice, goes beyond that set out in the as will be the case at the 2014 AGM.
responsibilities to the Audit Committee which the meetings.
External directorships, isresponsible for overseeing the Groups which may impact existing time commitments, financial reporting processes, internal control must be agreed with the Chairman.
and risk management framework and the workundertaken by the external auditor.
The chairman of the Audit Committee provides regular updates to the Group Board.
A4 Role of the non-executive directors B4 Training and development The Chairman promotes an open and constructive Ongoing training and induction programmes environment in the boardroom andactively invites arein place and the Chairman reviews each the non-executive directors views.
The nonofthe non-executive directors training needs.
executive directors provide objective, rigorous Further details are set out on page 58. and constructive challenge to management and meet regularly in the absence of the executive directors.
The Nominations Committee report can be found on pages 62 to 63.
indd 60 14 03 2014 20:58 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE For the year ended 31 December 2013, we are pleased to report that the company has complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
