HR director may also attendto support the Committees discussions on talentmanagement and succession planning in the Group.
TheChairman would not attend if the meeting were considering any matters relating to the Chairman inwhich case the meeting would be chaired by thesenior independent director, Rudy Markham.
The Nominations Committee met formally six times in2013.
EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS The Committee reported last year that the process JOHN STEWART, CHAIRMAN for the appointment of a group chief financial officer was There have been a number of changes ongoing.
This was an extremely thorough process and to our Board composition during the year.
the Board was focused on identifying a candidate with: an appropriate level of insurance experience: the skills In recommending new appointments to the Board the Committee considers the toeffectively complement the group chief executive importance of a diverse Board in terms and other members of the executive team, as well aseffectively interact with other Board members: and of thought, background, experience and gender.
theability to represent the company with investors, analysts and other key stakeholders, such as our regulators and Government.
In June we announced theappointment ofMark Gregory, previously the executive director oftheSavings division to the role ofgroup chief financial officer.
Mark moved to the THE COMMITTEE role following the successful delivery of the companys The Nominations Committee leads the process for the RDR strategy and the acquisition of Cofunds under appointment of new directors to the Board and reviews his leadership as the executive director of the on a regular basis the succession plans in place for Savings division.
executive directors and key senior management, Board composition, the suitability of the directors standing for The Committee produced a detailed candidate brief re-election at the annual general meeting and whether forthe role and engaged external search consultants, the Chairman and the non-executive directors continue Odgers Berndtson, who are signatories to the Voluntary to be able to meet their commitments to the company.
Code of Conduct for executive search rms and have no This year the committee has focused on strengthening, other connection to the company, to undertake a search broadening and balancing the range of skills, experience that considered both external and internal candidates.
and diversity on the Board, its committees and below The Committee considered a long list of applicants of Board level.
appropriate merit, which included female candidates and candidates from a diverse range of backgrounds.
Committee members rigorously interviewed a rened Members listof candidates for the position and liaised, as is John Stewart Julia Wilson standard practice with Board level appointments, with Rudy Markham Lindsay Tomlinson the appropriate regulatory bodies before recommending Stuart Popham Lizabeth Zlatkus tothe Board the appointment of Mark Gregory.
Mike Fairey At this time the Committee also considered the balance In addition to the members listed above, the group ofnon-executive and executives on the Board, along chief executive normally attends meetings although with plans to restructure the business to combine this would not be the case if the Committee were theSavings and Protection business units into a single discussing matters in connection with the appointment LGASbusiness division.
It was determined that four of a successor to the group chief executive.
The Group executive directors would be the most appropriate 62 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p050-069.
indd 62 14 03 2014 20:58 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS composition for the Board.
All business areas would behaviours of existing Board members, with a view to beeffectively represented at the Board following enhancing the overall effectiveness of the Board: and therestructure of operations, and the composition iii encouraging the search rm to produce long lists mosteffectively aligned with the Groups which include female and other diverse candidates of strategicobjectives.
The Committee will also consider high-performing females and other diverse senior NONEXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS executives who maynothave previous board experience 2013 saw a great deal of change in the composition of in executive andnon-executive directorship roles non-executive directors on the Board.
Henry Staunton subject to potential candidates meeting the regulatory previously senior independent director, vice chairman requirements for a board director of a financial services and chair of the Audit Committee retired in May after rm.
The appointment of Lizabeth clearly demonstrates serving on the Board for nine years.
Dame Clara Furse this, as Legal & General is Lizabeths first UK nonstepped down from the Board in May after four years executive role.
ofservice to take up a position at the Financial Policy Committee and Nick Prettejohn stepped down in June The Committee is also working to further strengthen after two years of service in order to join the Prudential therepresentation of women among the non-Board Regulation Authority as a non-executive director.
senior management who may be the Board directors oftomorrow.
Board members play an active role in Following a thorough search process, the Committee supporting and contributing to various employee talent were delighted to recommend the appointments of development programmes by mentoring individual Lindsay and Lizabeth to the Board, taking up their employees and meeting with groups of employees appointments as non-executives in May and December whotake part in the programmes.
The Committee considered the importance of a diverse Board and assessed the balance of skills, INDEPENDENCE knowledge and experience on the Board to pinpoint The Committee and the Board evaluate the anygaps that could be lled to enhance the Boards independence of any non-executive director serving performance in light of the Groups strategy.
Rudy Markham has served on the Committee instructed external search consultants, Boardfor seven years and as a result his continued Odgers Berndtson, to assist in the identication and independence has been subject to vigorous review shortlisting of potential candidates.
Lindsay was selected bythe Nominations Committee.
The Committee as he strengthens the Board through his significant hasdetermined that Rudy continues to demonstrate experience of asset management and investor corporate theattributes of an independent non-executive director, governance.
Lizabeth brings diversity tothe Board due inparticular an objective view point and constructive to her extensive experience in the USinsurance industry.
challenge to management and that his length of tenure has had no detrimental impact on his level DIVERSITY ofindependence.
All of the non-executive directors We consider a diverse Board to be extremely important, areconsidered to be independent and the Chairman be that diversity of thought, background, experience or wasconsidered independent on appointment.
Last year we published our first Board diversity policy which the Committee considers throughout the The Committee was also satisfied that during 2013 candidate search process.
theChairmans other commitments did not interfere withthe day to day performance of his duties for The Committee encourages the emergence of female thecompany.
candidates and candidates of diverse backgrounds by: i engaging an executive search rm that is a signatory The Committees terms of reference can be viewed to the executive search rms Voluntary Code of onour website.
Conduct: ii liaising with the search rm to produce a brief that includes an appropriate emphasis on diversity of skills and background, independence of approach and other personal qualities in addition to career experience and compatibility with the values and ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 63 80038 L&G p050-069.
