THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES DURING 2013 Fair, balanced and understandable The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include assisting the Board in ensuring that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced andunderstandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess thecompanys performance, business model andstrategy.
The Committee considered the corporate governance changes that now require the Board to make this statement on the report, together with information JULIA WILSON, CHAIRMAN onthe processes already in place or being introduced The Committee has a key role in ensuring the tosupport the statement to be made.
integrity of the financial statements and the effectiveness of risk management processes The Committee was satisfied that, when taken as and internal control.
2013 has seen significant a whole, the annual report is fair, balanced and developments in the regulatory backdrop understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, underpinning these responsibilities and the Committee has focused on the need for business model and strategy.
Wewere assisted in the annual report to be fair, balanced and reaching this conclusion by thefollowing: understandable, and the development of the new code for internal audit in the financial Review Senior management, including individual services sector, in particular.
business area managers and the executive directors, have been closely involved in the preparation and review of the information contained within the annual report.
The Committee and Board members have had sufficient opportunity to review the annual report and provide input.
Training Thoseresponsible for preparing the report THE COMMITTEE receive training on their reporting responsibilities.
All members of the Committee are independent nonIn particular, the Board ensures that the annual report executive directors and the Board and Committees own includes less positive messages where necessary so evaluations during the year found that the Committee that the report is fair, balanced and understandable.
members have the knowledge and skills to effectively Verication Full financial and factual verication full their responsibilities.
of the financial statements has been completed.
This includes peer review by external advisers and Members their feedback on the understandability of the report.
Risk disclosures The Committee received a Julia Wilson Committee member since 9 November 2011, Chair since 22 May 2013 report from the group chief risk officer on the Mike Fairey Committee member since 1 May 2011 risks discussed within the report and concluded Lindsay Tomlinson Committee member since 31 July 2013 that risks were appropriately disclosed and where necessary, links made within the annual report Other attendees at Committee meetings include: between risk and the companys business model, thegroup Chairman, group chief executive, group strategy and performance.
chiefnancial officer, group chief risk officer, group Consistency This was ensured for the financial financial controller, group chief internal auditor, UK statements with: actuary and representatives of the external auditor, the half-year results and interim management  LLP.
statements published during the year: and thefront half narrative section of the report.
The Committee met four times during 2013.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and the current We have aimed to use plain English within the annual terms of reference, reviewed in November 2013, report ensuring the absence of jargon and acronyms.
are available on our website.
indd 64 14 03 2014 20:58 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ISSUES The Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the 2013 financial statements: AREA OF JUDGEMENT HOW THE COMMITTEE ADDRESSED THE ISSUE The key judgements in relation to annuities are: The Committee is concerned to ensure that the investment data valuation interest rate the discount rate at which annuity used for modelling insurance liabilities is correct, that credit default payments are discounted to their present value: and longevity assumptions are appropriate and that the assumptions made in how long policyholders receiving annuity payments will live.
setting the credit default allowance appropriately represent the Groups exposures and current market conditions.
The financial results can be sensitive to changes in the valuation interest rate and the assumed credit default allowance.
The Committee considered how investment data is used to model insurance liabilities and reviewed in detail the assumptions used in Annuity liabilities are sensitive to the choice of, and changes in, calculating the credit default allowance.
Assurances were received the longevity assumptions.
from the external auditor in relation to the controls in place for the accuracy and completeness of the data used.
The Committee studied the results of the default provision methodology by individual asset type and concluded that the total provision was appropriate.
The Committee also reviewed how the longevity assumptions are calculated, including the use of internal experience analyses and judgement, and the impact of new data set releases from the Continuous Mortality Improvement Bureau.
The Groups investment portfolio includes Over The Counter The Committee is concerned to ensure that the complex process OTC derivatives and structured solution products such as for valuation of instruments does not increase the risk that the commercial mortgages.
These products are more complex than valuation is performed inaccurately.
The Groups investment portfolio includes Over The Counter OTC derivatives and structured solution products such as commercial mortgages.
These products are more complex than traditional investments.
The Committee challenged management on the robustness of the valuation process and received assurance on the controls in place to mitigate the risk that the valuation is not performed correctly.
The Committee also considered the processes in place to identify and manage counterparty risk through the investment portfolio.
The Group made four significant acquisitions during the year.
The Committee reviewed and considered the appropriateness of: The acquisitions of Lucida Limited and Cofunds Limited during 2013 were reported as business combinations.
The treatment adjustments to the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired of these acquisitions as business combinations required a number as part of each acquisition: and of estimates and adjustments to be made.
the fair valuation of previously unrecognised identiable intangible assets brand name, customer relationships and subsequent consideration.
The Committee further considered the impact of each acquisition on the Groups key performance metrics.
The Committee also considered the adequacy of the presentation of the acquisitions during the year.
indd 65 14 03 2014 20:58 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT.
Internal control and risk management framework This year, the Committee closely followed the The Committee considers control environment issues, consultation on the expectations for the internal audit root causes and managements responses and follow function within a major financial services company.
upactivities and is assisted by the work of both internal The Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors CIIA audit and the external auditor.
Guidance for Internal Audit in the Financial Services sector the Code was issued in July.
The Committee Given the level of organisational change during the year, recognises that the Code sets high and challenging with the appointment of a new group chief financial standards.
The Committee continues to work with officer and group financial controller and the integration management on the necessary development of the programme creating the LGAS business division, Companys internal audit function to ensure that it the Committee has sought to understand the impact of is well equipped to perform in line with the Codes these changes on internal control and risk management.
standards and support ongoing delivery of effective The Committee has beenassured that this change has internal audit assurance.
been managed toavoiddetrimental impact on the Groups internal control and risk management The chair and the Committee held private meetings framework through thereports it has received with the group chief internal auditor in the absence from the impacted areas.
In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee, the External auditor and effectiveness Committee assists the Board in ensuring the Group of the external audit operates within a framework of prudent and effective Each year, the Committee reviews the external auditors controls that allows risk to be identied, assessed audit plan to ensure it aligns with the Committees view andmanaged.
Implementation and maintenance of the significant risk areas of financial misstatement.
oftheinternal control systems are the responsibility ofthe executive directors and senior management.
The Committee judges the external auditor on the Where failings or weaknesses have been identied, quality of their audit findings, managements response actions have been taken to remedy these.
The Groups and stakeholder feedback.
The Committee regularly control policies and procedures, which are in accordance assesses the effectiveness of the external auditors with Turnbull Guidance, have been in place during 2013 against the following criteria: and up to the date this report was approved.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather Provision of timely and accurate industry specic than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and technical knowledge andnot absolute assurance against material loss.
Maintaining a professional and open dialogue withthe Committee chairman and members at Theinternal control and risk management systems alltimes coverthe companys financial reporting process and the Delivery of an efficient audit and the ability to Groups process for preparation of consolidated financial meetobjectives within the agreed time frames statements.
For 2013, the Board was able to conclude, Provision of sufficient resource and high quality with reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal andconsistent advice at all times control and risk management systems were maintained throughout the year.
The Committee also reviewed the Financial Reporting Councils 2012 13 Audit Quality Inspections Annual Report Internal audit and the 2012 13 Public Report on  The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the LLP.
Based on the feedback, the Committee continues Groups internal audit function, including internal audit to believe that  LLP is the resources, plans and performance as well as how the appropriate audit rm for the Group taking into account function interacts with management.
Throughout the their performance during 2013, the audit needs of the year, the Committee reviewed the internal audit Group and our principal business areas, the regulatory functions plans and its achievements against those landscape andour footprint.
The Committee considered the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the adequacy of managements response to matters raised, including the issues identied, managements resolution plans and the time taken to resolve any such matters.
indd 66 14 03 2014 20:58 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS The Committee is cognisant of the current and emerging The Groups policy requires that all services with requirements governing the appointment of external ananticipated cost in excess of a specified amount are auditors, notably the mandatory re-tendering subject to a full competitive tender involving at least requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code twoother alternate parties in addition to the external and Competition Commission, together with the auditor.
If the external auditor is selected following draft mandatory rm rotation proposals from the thetender process, the Committee is responsible for European Commission.
approving the external auditors fees on the engagement.
For services with an anticipated cost below the specified  LLP has been our external amount, thegroup chief financial officer has authority auditors for a number of years.
The audit was last to approve the engagement.
The external auditor and tendered in full in 2006 with a partial re-tender process management report regularly to the Committee on the in 2009.
The Committee continues to monitor the nature and fees relating to non-audit services provided requirements and recognises the need to carry out a under this authority.
review of the external audit provider.
Accordingly the current intention of the Committee is to carry out a In order to maintain the objectivity of the external review at an appropriate time between now and 2017. auditprocess, the Committee supports the rotation programme for audit engagement partners who are There are no contractual obligations which restrict required to rotate every five years.
The previous audit the Committees choice of external auditor.
partner commenced his engagement in 2008 and therefore stepped down as the audit engagement In 2013, the Group spent 1.4m on non-audit partner following the 2012 audit.
The 2013 audit is services provided by  LLP.
therst audit undertaken by the new audit partner.
Further details can be found in Note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
Analysis of current and prior-year spend on audit, otherassurance and non-assurance services: Analysis of current and prior-year spend on audit, other assurance and non-assurance services 2013 2012 2011 Audit and Related 5.6 4.6 4.5 Other Assurance 0.1 1.8 0.9 Non-assurance 1.3 1.1 1.0 Total 7.0 7.5 6.4 A significant proportion of the non-assurance fees in 2013 relate to tax compliance and other tax related services and support provided in relation to corporate transactions undertaken during the year.
The external auditor was selected to undertake this work because of their expertise and experience.
Separate teams from the external auditor undertake audit and non-audit work in order to ensure independence and objectivity of the audit team and this control is monitored internally by the Committee.
