GOVERNANCE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE REPORT.
COMMITTEES ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board infullling its responsibilities in relation to the oversight ofrisk within the Group and to provide advice in relation to current and potential future risk exposures of the Group.
This includes reviewing the Groups risk appetite and risk prole and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups approach to the management of risk is set out in moredetail on pages 42 to 47.
The key responsibilities of the Committee, as set out LINDSAY TOMLINSON, CHAIRMAN inthe terms of reference, are to: We have seen a number of changes to the Committee membership this year Advise the Board in relation to the Groups overall andIassumed the chair in July 2013. risk appetite for each of the categories of principal Thediversity of skills and experience risk to which the Group may be exposed onthe Committee continues to enhance Oversee and advise the Board on the current risk exposures of the Group its overall effectiveness in supporting theBoard to discharge its responsibilities Oversee the management of those categories in relation to the management of the ofriskto which the Group may be exposed Groups risk framework and internal Provide oversight of the Groups overall risk control systems.
framework ensuring that the principal risks are beingappropriately assessed Advise the Board on the appropriateness of the Groups risk appetite Review and approve the Groups risk strategy, THE COMMITTEE policiesand procedures The composition of the Committee was refreshed Monitor the impact of the principal risks on the duringthe year following a number of Board changes Groups strategy and consider changes to the risks and the Committee now comprises four independent arising at a Group level as a consequence of the non-executive directors.
Groups strategy, market and regulatory events Advise the Remuneration Committee on specic Members riskadjustments to be applied to performance Lindsay Tomlinson Committee member and Chair since 24 July 2013 objectives and other issues, as requested by Stuart Popham Committee member since 1 July 2011 theRemuneration Committee.
Julia Wilson Committee member since 24 July 2013 Lizabeth Zlatkus Committee member since 26 February 2014 COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2013 The work of the Committee is supported by the Groups Other attendees at Committee meetings include: the risk management team and company secretary who group Chairman, group chief executive, group Chief assist the Committee chairman in planning the financial officer, group chief risk officer, group chief Committees work and ensuring that the Committee internal auditor and representatives of the external receives accurate and timely information.
During the year, the Committee focused on the The Committee met four times during 2013. following areas: The effectiveness of the Committee during the year was reviewed as part of the internally facilitated Group chief risk ofcers report evaluation ofthe Board and its Committees.
The Committee has an ongoing programme of receiving reports from the group chief risk officer GCRO.
These reports bring to the Committees attention key issues in the operating environment of each of the Groups businesses and the potential risks they may raise.
Issues considered by the Committee during 2013 included, amongst others, the eurozone and sovereign debt, theUK economy and the UK and international 68 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p050-069.
indd 68 14 03 2014 20:58 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS regulatory environments.
The report also keeps New and emerging risks the Committee apprised of the activities undertaken, Monitoring new and emerging risks in a pre-emptive and transactions supported, by the GCROs team.
way is an important aspect of the Groups risk During 2013, the GCRO teams activities included, management processes and the ability to react to amongst others: emerging risks isessential to the achievement of the companys objectives.
The Committee considers on a Providing an objective review and guidance in regular basis emerging risk themes and their signicance respect of a number of transactions and acquisitions to the Group.
Carrying out an assessment of the Groups economic capital requirements in order to The Committee as part of these reviews, and broader meet regulatory solvency requirements discussions of business risks, has also considered Facilitating a review of the risk governance framework the prole of risks from organisational change and potential for management stretch across the range Focused business and risk reviews of strategic initiatives.
Time is allocated at each Committee meeting to carryout a focussed deep dive review of a particular Risk appetite risk area.
The purpose of these reviews is to enable The Groups risk appetite framework continues to evolve.
Committee members to examine the risk prole of The July meeting of the Committee undertook a detailed thecore business lines and to consider the robustness review of the operation of the framework, recommending oftheframeworks in place to manage the key risk a number of renements to the Group Board.
The table below gives examples of the the Committee considered the risk prole of the Groups key reviews that took place during the year: strategic plan and its alignment with the Groups overall risk appetite.
The regular reporting to the Committee Legal & General Investment Management a review of the includes comparison of actual positions relative to the strategic and operational risks faced by the business and Groups risk appetite statement.
Group internal model Legal & General Networks a review of the risks associated with Legal & Generals advisor distribution network, focussing The Committee has received updates throughout the year on risk culture and advice risk.
on the Groups internal model which underpins our risk based capital requirements.
This has afforded members Cofunds a review of the risk prole of the Cofunds business, the opportunity to develop understanding of the model with specic consideration of the strategic, regulatory and operational risks and the strategies for integrating the and to assess key assumptions in advance of the business into Legal & General.
implementation of the new Solvency II regime.
Cyber security risks a review of the risks of unauthorised Risk governance access to electronically stored data and the framework to safeguard against potential threats to our systems.
Sound frameworks of risk management and internal control are essential in the management of risks which Currency risks a review of the currency risk exposures across may impact the fullment of the companys strategic the Group, and the policies deployed to manage these risks objectives.
During the year the Committee considered particularly with regard to investment assets and dividends from overseas subsidiaries.
aproposal for a revised Group level risk structure in order to establish clearer distinctions between the first Remuneration schemes a review of the key conduct risks and line decision making committees and the second line the risk prole relating to the bespoke incentive arrangements, committees responsible for risk oversight.
Further details as well as current and emerging regulation in relation to reward.
of this revised structure can be found on page 47. Credit risk a review of the credit risk prole across the Groups investment portfolios, and actions to further enhance the risk management framework.
Liquidity risk a review of the Groups key liquidity risks and the operation of the liquidity risk management framework, including contingency funding and standby facilities.
Epidemic risk a review of the Groups exposures to epidemic risk and the modelling for those risks within the Groups internal model.
