Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 78 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT The Board is committed to achieving long term success for the Group and generating sustainable returns for shareholders.
This is underpinned by our high standards of corporate governance, which are critical to the success of any business today Dear Shareholders I am pleased to present our corporate governance report for the 2013 financial year.
This report explains how the Group applies the highest principles of corporate governance, in particular those laid down in the 2012 edition of the Financial Reporting Council FRC s uK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code can be accessed at www.
2013 has been a significant year for lloyds Banking Group.
The Board has taken a number of important decisions as we work towards the goal of becoming the best bank for customers.
I am pleased to report that during the year the Board and its Committees met their key objectives and carried out their key responsibilities effectively.
Set out below are some of the key corporate governance matters considered in 2013.
Chairman succession Following the announcement of my intention to retire before the 2014 annual general meeting, a committee of the Board was established to oversee the search and selection of my successor.
I am delighted that lord Blackwell has been chosen to succeed me as Chairman of lloyds Banking Group.
Over the past four years, the Group has made significant progress in its goal to become a strong, efficient, uK-focused retail and commercial bank.
Whilst clearly some challenges remain, the performance of the Group is well on track.
This gives me great confidence in its future and I wish norman every success as he leads the Group at this important time.
The appointment of lord Blackwell as Chairman received unanimous Board approval.
Full details of the selection process are outlined on page 82.
Board composition Since last reporting, three additional directors have joined the Board.
nick luff, who was appointed in March 2013, has significant financial experience in the uK listed environment.
His background and experience enables him to fulfil the role of Audit Committee Chair and for SeC purposes the role of Audit Committee financial expert.
Juan Colombs, who was appointed in november 2013, brings significant banking and risk management experience to the Board and his appointment reflects the Boards desire to elevate the importance of risk management in the Group.
Dyfrig John was appointed in January 2014 to bolster the depth and breadth of retail banking experience on the Board.
However, with my pending retirement, the search for additional directors with relevant banking, finance and risk experience continues.
TSB Bank Following the european Commissions ruling in 2009 requiring the Group to divest part of its business, the Group created a fresh competitor on Britains high streets in TSB Bank, with over 600 branches across Britain.
The process required the Group to balance the need for the Groups oversight obligations with the need to deliver an independently functioning bank.
A governance structure was created to ensure this was achieved.
In September 2013, TSB Bank was launched as a fully operational bank and a new chairman was appointed in February 2014.
Changes to the remuneration reporting regime The Remuneration Committee dedicated significant time in 2013 to assessing the impact of changes to the remuneration reporting regime on the Groups approach to executive remuneration.
The Committee has striven to ensure that the remuneration policies and practices detailed in the Directors Remuneration Policy, on pages 102 to 109, and in the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report on pages 110 to 122, are appropriate to supporting the delivery of the Companys current and future strategy.
Board effectiveness The Board carries out an annual evaluation of its effectiveness.
In 2013, this was conducted internally.
The review was overseen by the nomination & Governance Committee and considered the Boards performance principally by reference to the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board, its diversity, including gender, and how the Directors work together as a unit.
The review also considered my effectiveness as Chairman of the Board, the effectiveness of the Committees, the Committee Chairmen, the Senior Independent Director and the Deputy Chairman.
The results of the review are set out on page 86.
Finally, I would like to thank each of the Directors for their commitment throughout 2013 and their support during the period of my chairmanship.
Our high standards of corporate governance are driven by the Board and embedded in the thinking and processes of the business.
The Group is now profitable with a strong balance sheet and a solid prudential foundation on which to build a sustainable future.
Sir Winfried Bischoff Chairman Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 78 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 The Board and its members Purpose and responsibilities The Group is led by a Board comprising a non-executive Chairman, independent non-executive Directors and executive Directors.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company.
It achieves this by setting the strategy and overseeing delivery against it, establishing the culture, values and standards of the Group, ensuring that the Group manages risk effectively, monitoring financial performance and reporting and ensuring that appropriate and effective succession planning arrangements and remuneration policies are in place.
The role of the Directors The roles of the Chairman and other Board members are set out below.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board while the Group Chief executive manages and leads the business.
Overview of the roles of the Directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Group Chief Executive Overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board Helps resolve shareholders concerns.
Manages the Group on a day-to-day basis, and the promotion of the highest standards of and in accordance with the strategy and long Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman corporate governance.
term objectives approved by the Board.
and Group Chief executive on Board and Sets the Board meeting agendas to ensure that the shareholder matters.
With the exception of those matters reserved to the Board devotes its time and attention to the right Board, the Group Chief executive makes decisions on Is a conduit, as required, for the views of other matters.
matters affecting the operations, performance and non-executive Directors on the performance of strategy of the Groups businesses.
Builds an effective and complementary Board.
Provides leadership and direction to implement Plans succession in Board appointments in Is available to shareholders if they have concerns strategy in accordance with the goals and objectives conjunction with the nomination & Governance which contact through the normal channels has failed set by the Board.
to resolve or is inappropriate.
Coordinates all activities to implement the strategy ensures the Directors receive timely and Attends sufficient meetings with major and for managing the business in accordance with relevant information and are kept advised of key shareholders and financial analysts to understand the Groups risk appetite and business plan set by developments.
Conducts the Chairmans annual performance appraisal.
Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Executive Director Challenges constructively.
Makes and implements decisions in all matters ensures continuity of effective Board Chairmanship affecting the operations, performance and strategy during any change of chairmanship.
of the Groups business, under the leadership of the Supports the Chairman in representing the Board Participates actively in the decision-making process Group Chief executive.
Provides specialist knowledge and experience to Scrutinises the performance of management in Deputises for the Chairman in the discharge of his the Board.
meeting agreed goals and objectives.
Responsible for the successful leadership and Provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Group Is available to the Board for consultation and advice.
management of the Risk and Finance divisions.
within a framework of prudent effective controls.
Is the Chairmans point of contact with governmental Designs, develops and implements strategic plans.
Sets the Groups strategic aims and reviews and other institutions.
Deals with the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Represents the Groups interests to official enquiries Sets the Groups values and standards.
The role of the Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and provides comprehensive practical support and guidance to Directors both as individuals and as a collective, with particular emphasis on supporting the non-executive Directors in maintaining the highest standards of probity and corporate governance.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for communicating with shareholders as appropriate and ensuring that due regard is paid to their interests.
All Directors, including non-executive Directors, have access to the services of the Company Secretary in relation to the discharge of their duties.
Access to advice The Group also provides access, at its expense, to the services of independent professional advisers in order to assist Directors in their role, especially non-executive Directors, wherever this is deemed necessary.
Board Committees are also provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Authority and delegation Corporate governance framework The Groups corporate governance framework, which is reviewed annually by the Board, comprises the board authority and the delegated executive authority.
Board authority The board authority sets out the matters reserved to the Board.
These include decisions concerning the strategy and long-term objectives of the Group, the Groups capital, medium-term plan and financial budgets, significant contracts and transactions and various statutory and regulatory approvals.
The approval of the remuneration policy, risk appetite and risk management framework are also reserved to the Board.
The board authority delegates responsibility for day-to-day management of the business to the Group Chief executive and sets out the basis for delegation of authorities from the Board to Board Committees.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 80 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT The following table provides an overview of the matters reserved to the Board of lloyds Banking Group plc.
A full schedule of all matters reserved to the Board can be found on our website at www.
Strategy and budget Governance Risk management Approves the Groups strategy and long-term Determines Board and Committee structure, size and Approves the Groups risk appetite and risk objectives, the Medium Term Plan and the annual composition.
budget and reviews delivery against plan.
Determines the independence of non-executive Monitors the Groups aggregate risk exposures, Approves strategic proposals and major Directors.
risk return and emerging risks.
Approves the governance principles, corporate Reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups risk establishes the culture, values and standards of governance framework, Board Committee terms of management and internal control systems.
reference and key Group policies.
Remuneration Structure, capital and transactions Finance, statutory and regulatory requirements Approves the overall remuneration policy and Approves material changes to the Groups corporate philosophy of the Company.
and organisational structure and changes to capital Approves financial statements, dividends and structure.
Approves the remuneration of non-executive Directors.
Approves the basis for allocation of capital, Authorises Directors conflicts or potential conflicts investments, acquisitions, mergers or disposals.
Approves material changes in employee share schemes and policy relating to Group pensions.
Approves large transactions, equity investments and Approves all shareholder notices, circulars, disposals, and intra group guarantees.
Delegated executive authority The Group Chief executive, through the delegated executive authority, delegates aspects of his own authority, as permitted, to members of the Group executive Committee.
The Group executive Committee meets weekly to scrutinise items of key business.
The Group Audit Director, Group HR Director and the Company Secretary attend the weekly Group executive Committee meetings to ensure that there is appropriate internal audit oversight, employee interests and people strategy matters are considered and that the highest standards of corporate governance are maintained.
The role of the Board Committees The Board is supported by its Committees which make recommendations to the Board on matters delegated to them, in particular in relation to internal control, risk, financial reporting, governance and remuneration matters.
This enables the Board to spend a greater proportion of its time on strategic, forward looking agenda items.
each Committee comprises non-executive Directors only and is chaired by an experienced Chairman.
The Committee Chairs report to the Board on the activities of the Committee at each Board meeting.
Terms of reference for each of the Committees can be found on our website at www.
Information on the membership, role and activities of each of the Committees can be found on pages 89 to 99.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Nomination Audit Board Risk Remuneration & Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Subsidiary governance The Group conducts the majority of its business through a number of subsidiary entities.
The Boards of the four main bank companies, lloyds Banking Group plc, lloyds Bank plc, HBOS plc and Bank of Scotland plc, comprise the same Directors.
The Board meetings for these companies are held concurrently with the agenda split between the companies to allow decisions to be taken and scrutinised by the appropriate Board.
In addition the Group has an insurance subsidiary, Scottish Widows Group limited, which itself also has a number of separate operating subsidiaries.
The Board of Scottish Widows Group limited, which also sits as the Board of the major subsidiaries, is chaired by a non-executive member of the lloyds Banking Group Board and contains a balance of independent non-executive directors, Group executives and Insurance Division executives.
This composition supports its legal and regulatory requirements for independent decision making within the overall framework of Group policies and controls.
To help manage the legal, regulatory and reputational risks associated with the Groups subsidiary entities, the Group requires that subsidiary boards and their directors meet minimum governance standards, as laid down in the legal entity management standards and directors handbook as approved by the Board of lloyds Banking Group plc.
The Group Chief executive outlined his Group strategy in 2011 including a simplification target of reducing the number of legal entities in the Group from 1,685 to fewer than 1,000 by the end of 2014.
As at 31 December 2013, the number of Group entities had reduced to 929, achieving the target one year ahead of schedule.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 80 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 The establishment of TSB Bank plc Following the european Commissions ruling in 2009 requiring the Group to divest part of its business, the Group created a fresh competitor on Britains high streets in TSB Bank, which was launched in September 2013.
The creation of TSB Bank required the Group to balance its oversight obligations with the need to deliver an independently functioning bank.
A governance structure was agreed by the Board of lloyds Banking Group plc to ensure this was achieved.
Three governance stages were identified to progress TSB Banks transition to a fully independent stand alone bank: Wholly-owned subsidiary While TSB Bank remains a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group it will operate in line with the Groups risk appetite and over-arching strategic goals.
Should TSB Bank need access to Group information in order to carry out its responsibilities, any conflicts are managed in accordance with existing Group guidance.
In accordance with the mandate set with the TSB Bank Board, TSB Bank management will run TSB Bank but have reporting lines to their Group counterparts.
Transition to initial public offering In January 2014, TSB Bank received a greater degree of autonomy.
It has its own independent, non-executive chairman and board, with its own constitution and responsibilities.
The regulatory approved executive teams have dotted reporting lines into their Group counterparts but no direct reporting lines.
In accordance with its agreed strategy, plan and budget, TSB Bank is able to take independent operational decisions.
Certain decisions, such as product pricing and marketing, remain subject to approval by the Group.
Following initial public offering Once TSB Bank is listed on the london Stock exchange, its independence will be prescribed in a relationship agreement between itself and lloyds Banking Group.
Any transactions between the Group and TSB Bank will be at arms length through a transitional service agreement and long term service agreement.
Board composition Board size The Board should be of sufficient size to reflect a broad range of views and perspectives whilst allowing all Directors to participate effectively in meetings.
The Board currently comprises three executive Directors, eight independent non-executive Directors and the Chairman who was independent on appointment.
The size of the Board is within the optimal range set by the nomination & Governance Committee.
Further details on independence are set out in the nomination & Governance Committee Report.
Mix of Executive and Non-Executive Directors Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors until recently, the Board operated with two executive Directors: the Group Chief executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
As 1 Chairman a reflection of the importance of risk management in decisions taken by the Board, Juan Colombs, the Chief Risk Officer, was appointed to the Board in november 2013 as an additional executive Director.
His appointment has increased the number of executive Directors on the Board to three.
3 Executive Directors 8 Independent Non-Executive Directors Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 82 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT I am honoured to have been asked to become Chairman of Lloyds Banking Group.
This is a great opportunity to be part of helping the bank go even further in serving its customers as it returns to full private ownership.
Id like to thank Win for the outstanding job he has done in steering the bank through a tremendous turnaround.
Lord Blackwell Chairman succession Following the announcement by our Chairman, Sir Winfried Bischoff, of his intention to retire before the 2014 annual general meeting, a committee of the Board was established, led by Anthony Watson, to oversee the search and selection of his successor.
A job specification was prepared and with the assistance of Odgers Berndtson who has no connection with the Group, a comprehensive long-list of potential candidates was drawn up which, based on the attributes required and the skills, availability and experience of the candidates, was reduced to a short-list of candidates.
each of the candidates was interviewed and assessed by the members of the Committee with updates on progress reported to the nomination & Governance Committee and the Board.
It was clear from Board feedback that lord Blackwell was considered by his fellow Directors to be a suitable candidate to succeed Sir Winfried as Chairman and at the request of the Board, he made himself available for consideration for the role.
He did not take part in any of the discussions on Chairman succession following his decision to apply for the role.
On 2 December 2013, the Group announced that lord Blackwell would be appointed as Chairman of the Group following the retirement of Sir Winfried Bischoff on 3 April 2014.
The appointment received unanimous Board approval.
lord Blackwell has been a Director on the Board of lloyds Banking Group since June 2012 where he has been a member of the Groups Audit and Board Risk Committees.
He has also been the Chairman of Scottish Widows since September 2012. lord Blackwell has broad experience in banking, insurance and management consultancy.
His external ex perience, together with his experience and knowledge of lloyds Banking Group and existing relationships with the Board, make him ideally placed to ensure a seamless handover as Chairman.
Since the announcement of lord Blackwells appointment to the role of Chairman, he has taken steps to ensure that he can adequately meet the time commitments of the role.
lord Blackwell meets the independence criteria set out in the Code on appointment.
His biography can be found on page 70.
Appointments In 2013, the Board identified the need for a number of new Directors to supplement the banking, finance and risk experience on the Board.
The following Board appointments were made: On 5 March 2013, nick luff was appointed as a non-executive Director and replaced Martin Scicluna as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 31 March 2013: and On 29 november 2013, Juan Colombs, the Chief Risk Officer, was appointed as an executive Director.
In addition, on 1 January 2014, Dyfrig John was appointed as a non-executive Director.
The nomination & Governance Committee is currently conducting a search for additional directors with relevant banking, finance and risk experience.
A search is also being conducted for a new chairman of Scottish Widows Group limited in place of lord Blackwell.
More information on Board and Committee composition and the appointment process is set out in the nomination & Governance Committee Report on pages89 and 90.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 70 and 71.
Executive Director service contracts and Non-Executive Director terms of appointment The Chairman and non-executive Directors are appointed for a specified term and are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
non-executive Directors may have their appointment terminated, in accordance with statute and the articles of association, at any time without compensation.
executive Directors have service contracts with the Group.
The Chairman, Group Chief executive, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer are each obliged to give six months notice of their intention to retire from their respective roles.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors and executive Director service agreements are available for inspection at the registered office address.
Election and re-election All Directors appointed to the Board since the annual general meeting in 2013 will stand for election at the 2014 annual general meeting.
All other Directors will retire and those willing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting.
Biographies of all current Directors are set out on pages 70 and 71.
Details of the Directors seeking election or re-election at the annual general meeting are set out in the notice of Meeting.
Directors and Officers liability insurance Throughout 2013 the Group had appropriate insurance cover in place to protect Directors, including former Directors who retired during the year, from liabilities that may arise against them personally in connection with the performance of their role.
As well as insurance cover, the Group agrees to indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Further information on the Groups indemnity arrangements is provided on page 74.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 82 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Diversity policy The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its membership reflects diversity in the broadest sense.
The combination of personalities on the Board provides a good range of perspectives and challenge and improves the quality of decision making.
In 2013, the Board continued to focus on improving diversity.
The percentage of female representation on the Board meets its objective of 25 per cent by 2015 as recommended by the lord Davies Review.
The following charts detail the percentage of women employed at various levels of seniority within the Group as at 31 December 2013 compared to prior years.
Female Board members % Female senior managers % Female managers % All staff % 59 59 58 44 43 43 27 27 27 26 26 8 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Developing diversity The Board recognises that senior management is a group from which future directors may be selected.
To improve the diversity in these roles, the Group has implemented a variety of initiatives which include: the Senior Women leadership Programme: Footprints in the Snow, a senior womens role model programme: mandatory diverse shortlists for senior appointments: Sponsoring leadership Programme, where women and colleagues from ethnic minorities are sponsored in their career by senior executives: the Breakthrough Womens network, which provides support and networking opportunities for over 4,000 women across the Group: and the Group Disability Programme, providing equal opportunity for colleagues with disabilities.
The Group has also sponsored the First Women Awards for eight years running and has been awarded a place in The Times Top 50 employers for Women in 2012 and 2013.
These initiatives, amongst others, will help the Group improve diversity.
More information on the Groups diversity programmes, including details of the Groups commitment to raise the percentage of women employed in senior management roles to 40 per cent by 2020, is set out in the 2013 Responsible Business Report, which can be found on our website at www.
Conflicts of interest All Directors of the Group and its subsidiaries must avoid any situation which might give rise to a conflict between their personal interests and those of the Group.
Prior to appointment, potential conflicts of interest are disclosed and assessed to ensure that there are no matters which would prevent that person from taking on the appointment.
Directors are responsible for notifying the Chairman and Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of actual or potential conflict situations.
In addition, conflicts are monitored as follows: the Directors are required to complete a conflicts questionnaire on appointment and annually thereafter: changes to the commitments of all Directors are reported to the nomination & Governance Committee and the Board: and a register of potential conflicts and time commitments is regularly reviewed and authorised by the Board to ensure the authorisation status remains appropriate.
If any potential conflict arises, the articles of association permit the Board to authorise the conflict, subject to such conditions or limitations as the Board may determine.
In situations where a potential conflict arises, the Director will excuse themselves from any meeting or discussion and all material in relation to that matter will be restricted including Board papers and minutes.
Anita Frew is a non-executive Director of the Group and Aberdeen Asset Management plc.
During the year, Aberdeen Asset Management agreed to acquire Scottish Widows Investment Partnership from the Group.
Anita excused herself from all discussions concerning the transaction and did not have access to any of the papers.
She took the same action at Aberdeen Asset Management.
On this basis, the Board approved the potential conflict of interest.
Time commitments non-executive Directors are required to devote such time as is necessary for the effective discharge of their duties.
On average, this equates to 35-40 days per annum including attendance at Committee meetings.
For Committee Chairs, this increases to 45-50 days with the Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman spending considerably more than 50 days on the Companys business.
non-executive Directors may be expected to relinquish other appointments to ensure that they can meet the time commitments of their role.
Fees paid to non-executive Directors reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
non-executive Directors do not receive share options or other performance related pay.
executive Directors are restricted to taking on no more than one non-executive director role in a FTSe 100 company.
The Chairman is required to commit to this being his primary role, limiting his other commitments to ensure he can spend as much time as the role requires.
The Chairmans biography can be found on page 70.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 84 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT Training Board induction All Directors are expected to make an informed contribution based on an understanding of the Groups business model and the key challenges facing the Group and its businesses.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board comprising: a corporate induction, including an introduction to the Board and a detailed overview of the Group, its strategy, operational structures and main business activities.
non-executive Directors are also afforded opportunities to meet with major shareholders: the roles and responsibilities of a Director, including statutory duties and responsibilities of an FCA approved person: a bespoke induction programme tailored by the Chairman to the individual needs of the Director with regard to their specific role and their skills and experience to date.
This takes the form of reading materials and meetings with senior executives across the Group and sessions on the Groups business divisions: and a detailed induction programme across Risk, focusing on: risk appetite and the Groups risk profile: compliance and conduct risk: capital, stress testing, analytics and modelling: liquidity risk: Retail and Wealth credit risk: Commercial Banking credit risk: operational risk and financial crime: eu State aid, risk transformation, ring-fence banking, recovery and resolution planning: global non-core: and the separation of TSB Bank.
In preparation for his role as Chairman of lloyds Banking Group, lord Blackwell has undertaken an intensive induction and continuing business awareness programme.
Since his appointment was approved, he has also joined Sir Winfried Bischoff in attending important internal and external meetings.
Professional development The Board receives regular refresher training and information sessions throughout the year to address current business or emerging issues.
This is done under the leadership of the Chairman and is delivered through a variety of business updates, including sessions on: capital and liquidity including stress testing requirements : the approved persons regime: accounting developments: and credit rating agency developments.
These sessions also allow the executive Directors an opportunity to consider business areas outside their direct responsibilities.
In addition, the Audit Committee hosted a series of deep dives in early 2013 to which all Board members were invited, and which provided an in-depth review of the operations of each of the business divisions and of the latest accounting standards and operating methodologies.
During the year the Audit Committee deep dives were replaced by business and technical updates.
The Board Risk Committee also received reviews from each division.
All of the Directors attend the Board Risk Committee.
Directors are also invited to attend courses, management meetings and one to one meetings with key executives.
For instance, some of the non-executive Directors attended meetings of the Product Pricing Governance Committee, others spent a day at a PPI call centre.
Board agenda and attendance Setting the Board agenda The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board agenda, assisted by the Group Chief executive and Company Secretary.
A yearly planner is prepared by the Company Secretary to map out the flow of key items of business to the Board and to ensure that sufficient time is being set aside for strategic discussions.
Prior to each Board meeting the Chairman reviews the agenda and time allocation with the Group Chief executive, the Company Secretary and other Directors as appropriate.
The Group Chief executive holds a separate Board paper review meeting to review the individual papers.
That meeting is held with the Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, and authors of the main papers, as required.
40% Strategy, customers, budget and capital 20% Finance, statutory 25% and regulatory requirements Risk management and governance 10% 5% Other Remuneration oversight Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 84 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Board allocation of time in 2013 Effective use of the Boards time To ensure that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss matters of a material nature, Board dinners and or breakfast meetings are held prior to each scheduled Board meeting.
This allows the Directors greater time to discuss their views and, where relevant, form a consensus ahead of the meeting.
These pre-meetings are normally attended by all members of the Board but often the pre-meetings are held without the executive Directors present and separately, at least once a year, without the Chairman in attendance.
The non-executive Directors also receive regular updates from the Group Chief executive in the form of a weekly email or briefing call.
In 2013, the Boards agenda was re-ordered to achieve a greater focus on key strategic and customer matters.
As the bank works towards achieving its goal of becoming the best bank for customers, the Board intends to devote more time to strategic matters and also to customer related issues.
Group strategy In addition to routine strategic discussion at Board meetings throughout the year, the Directors spent two days offsite in 2013 focusing entirely on the Groups broader strategic plan and the setting of the Groups five year operating plan.
Attendance at meetings In 2013, a total of 10 Board meetings were held, eight of which were scheduled and two of which were ad hoc meetings.
Ad hoc Board meetings are called at short notice to discuss a matter that cannot wait until the next scheduled Board meeting.
Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, the Chairman discusses the matter with the Director and seeks their support for the proposed recommendation.
He also represents their views at the meeting.
each of the two ad hoc meetings held in 2013 concerned matters that had been previously approved in principle by the full Board.
Board members also attended the annual general meeting held in edinburgh.
The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings is shown in the table below.
Whilst all Directors are invited to, and regularly attend, other Committee meetings, only their attendance at Committees of which they are members is recorded.
Lloyds Banking Group Board Nomination & Scheduled Ad hoc Governance Audit Board Risk Remuneration Meetings Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Current Directors who served during 2013 Sir Winfried Bischoff 8 8 2 2 3 3 6 6 10 10 Antnio Horta-Osrio 8 8 1 2 lord Blackwell 8 8 2 2 8 9 6 6 3 Juan Colombs George Culmer 8 8 2 Carolyn Fairbairn 7 8 1 2 9 9 10 10 Anita Frew 8 8 2 2 2 2 9 9 6 6 nick luff 6 6 2 2 6 6 5 5 David Roberts 8 8 1 2 3 3 9 9 6 6 10 10 Anthony Watson 8 8 2 2 3 3 9 9 5 6 10 10 Sara Weller 8 8 1 2 6 6 10 10 Former Directors who served during 2013 Timothy T Ryan 3 3 1 3 3 7 7 Martin Scicluna 2 2 1 1 1 3 3 1 1 1 number of meetings held during the period that the Director held office.
2 One of the ad hoc meetings was called at very short notice leading to a number of the Directors being unable to attend.
However, each of those Directors provided their views to the Chairman in advance of the meeting so that their vote could be recorded at the meeting.
3 There were no Board meetings in 2013 following the appointed of Juan Colombs on 29 november 2013.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 86 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT Effectiveness Board effectiveness The Chairman of the Board leads the rolling review of the Boards effectiveness with the support of the nomination & Governance Committee, which he also chairs.
A summary of the Boards progress against the actions arising from its external 2012 Board effectiveness review are set out below: 2012 evaluation external 2013 action Refocusing of the The agenda has been re-ordered to ensure greater focus on key strategic matters.
The length and timing of reports from Board agenda the Group Chief executive, Chief Financial Officer and each of the Board Committee Chairman have also been reviewed, to maximise the time available during the meeting for discussion on strategic, rather than operational, matters.
Working The pattern of Board and Committee meetings and associated events was reviewed in 2013, allowing greater together opportunity for informal interaction between Board members outside the boardroom.
Continuing Deep dives have been replaced by bespoke training sessions on specific topics as required.
A structured approach to development continuing development was introduced in 2013, which included a series of workshops and focused training sessions.
2013 evaluation of Board performance The annual evaluation of the Boards effectiveness provides an opportunity to consider ways of identifying greater efficiencies, maximising strengths and highlighting areas for further development.
Following an external review in 2012 by Independent Audit, who has no connection to the Group, the Group conducted an internal review in 2013.
Overseen by the nomination & Governance Committee, the 2013 review considered the following areas: strategy: risk and control: planning and performance: Board composition and size: culture and dynamics: relationships between management and independent Directors: governance: the Boards calendar and agenda: the quality and timeliness of information: support for Directors and Committees: and other matters.
This years evaluation was conducted between november 2013 and January 2014 and consisted of: a detailed questionnaire, drafted by the Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary, to assess the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: follow up interviews with the Chairman and or Deputy Chairman as required: feedback to the nomination & Governance Committee: and a recommended action plan.
The evaluation of the Chairman was led by the Senior Independent Director through questionnaires and interviews for those who wanted to discuss anything further.
The reviews concluded that the performance of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and each of the Directors continues to be effective.
The outcome of the Board effectiveness review has been discussed by the Board.
The outcome of the evaluation of the Chairman was discussed by the non-executive Directors at an arranged Board dinner and at the Board meeting the following day, each in the absence of the Chairmen.
If Directors have concerns about the Company or a proposed action which cannot be resolved, it is recorded in the Board minutes.
no such concerns were raised in 2013.
2013 evaluation outcomes The findings of the 2013 effectiveness review stressed the progress made under the Chairmans leadership with strong support from experienced Committee Chairs.
It identified a number of key strengths including the quality of risk oversight and risk reporting, improved Board dynamics and strongly performing Committees.
Inevitably, it also identified areas for further efficiencies and effectiveness as set out below.
Matters considered The quality and timeliness of Board and Committee The mix of skills and experience on the Board.
The focus of the Boards agenda.
Observations Actions taken previously have reduced the volume of With the pending retirement of Sir Winfried Bischoff, As the bank works towards achieving its goal of papers received by the Board, but further the Board would benefit from additional banking, becoming the best bank for customers, the Board improvements are required.
will need to devote more time to strategic and customer related issues.
Actions taken to be taken Targeted training to senior management to ensure The appointment of Dyfrig John in January 2014 has The Board intends to increase further its focus on that papers focus on the areas most likely to lead to bolstered the depth and breadth of uK retail customers and customer outcomes in 2014 through discussion.
banking experience on the Board.
Further searches more regular presentations on customer dashboards continue.
The Group will report on the progress of the above action plan in the 2014 annual report.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 86 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, the Directors consider the nature and extent of the risks facing the Group, the likelihood of a risk event occurring and the costs of control.
A system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can therefore only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material mis-statement or loss.
The Directors and senior management are committed to maintaining a robust control framework as the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management.
They acknowledge their responsibilities in relation to the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing effectiveness.
The Groups Policy Framework defines mandatory controls for all material risk types, and the requirement for all colleagues to comply with Policies is reinforced through the Codes of Business and Personal Responsibility, which ensure that colleagues understand they are accountable for the risks they take, and individual objectives expressed in the balanced scorecard.
The process for risk identification, measurement and control is integrated into the Groups overall framework for risk governance.
The Group is forward-looking in its risk identification processes to ensure emerging risks are identified.
The risk identification, measurement and control process also identifies whether the controls in place result in an acceptable level of risk.
At Group level, a consolidated risk report and risk appetite dashboard are reviewed and regularly debated by the Group Risk Committee, Board Risk Committee and the Board to ensure that they are satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and mitigating actions.
The report and dashboard provide a monthly view of the Groups overall risk profile, key risks and management actions, together with performance against risk appetite and an assessment of emerging risks which could affect the Groups performance over the life of the operating plan.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Information regarding the main features of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process is provided within the risk management report on pages 123 to 196.
An annual control effectiveness review CeR is undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups control framework, with regard to its material risks, to ensure management actions are in place to address key gaps or weaknesses in the control framework and to discharge its obligations under the Turnbull guidance.
Business areas and head office functions assess the controls in place to address all material risk exposures across all risk types.
The CeR considers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
Senior management complete an attestation to confirm the CeR findings which are reviewed and independently challenged by the Risk Division and Group Audit and reported to the Board.
Action plans are implemented to address any control deficiencies.
The process complies with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council, and the conclusions are reported to and reviewed by the Board.
The 2013 CeR found that, overall, the Group is well controlled and that the control environment has improved year-on-year.
This improvement is consistent with the delivery of various action plans and an improvement in the operational risk profile of the Group.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee, which also receives reports of reviews undertaken by the Risk Division and Group Audit.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Companys auditor,  llP which include details of significant internal control matters that they have identified, and has a discussion with the auditor at least once a year without executives present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
In 2013, the Audit Committee, in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, concluded that the Groups systems of internal control and risk management were effective, and recommended that the Board approve them accordingly.
Shareholder relationships The Board recognises the importance of promoting mutual understanding between the Company and its shareholders through greater engagement.
In 2013, there was regular dialogue with investors with more than 450 equity investor meetings and approximately 200 debt investor meetings undertaken during the year.
Many of these meetings were undertaken by senior management primarily the Group Chief executive and Chief Financial Officer or other Board or GeC members.
The Chairman has also attended a number of meetings to discuss governance and the Groups strategic direction.
Anthony Watson, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Senior Independent Director, regularly meets the larger shareholders to listen to their views and discuss executive remuneration.
The Board is kept advised of the views of major investors by means of regular updates at Board and Committee meetings.
It also receives reports on market and investor sentiment, shareholder analysis and surveys of shareholder opinions.
Investor Relations has primary responsibility for managing day-to-day communications with investors.
Supported by the Group Chief executive, Chief Financial Officer, and other members of the senior management team, they achieve this through a combination of briefings to analysts and institutional investors both at results briefings and throughout the year, as well as individual discussions with institutional investors.
Following the announcement of our half year results in August 2013 and our full year results in February 2014, the Group Chief executive wrote to shareholders outlining the progress made on our strategy to be the best bank for customers.
He has undertaken to write to shareholders twice yearly with further progress updates.
The Company Secretary oversees communications with retail shareholders.
The Groups annual general meeting provides an opportunity to meet the Groups Directors and to hear more about the strategy of the Group.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general meeting and to raise any questions at the meeting or in advance, using the email address shown in the Annual General Meeting pack which will be sent to shareholders in due course.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 88 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT Statement of compliance UK Corporate Governance Code The Group confirms that is has applied the main principles and complied with all provisions of the Code throughout the year ending 31 December 2013.
The British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure In September 2010, the British Bankers Association published a Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure the Disclosure Code.
The Disclosure Code sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that uK banks: commit to providing high quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures: commit to ongoing review of, and enhancement to, their financial instrument disclosures for key areas of interest: will assess the applicability and relevance of good practice recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of such guidance: will seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures across the uK banking sector: and will clearly differentiate in their annual reports between information that is audited and information that is unaudited.
The Group has adopted the Disclosure Code and its 2013 financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the Disclosure Codes principles.
Committee reports The following pages contain reports from each of the Boards Committees.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 88 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Nomination & Governance Committee report 1 Meetings attended held in 2013 Committee chairman Sir Winfried Bischoff 3 3 Committee members Anita Frew 2 2 David Roberts 3 3 Anthony Watson 3 3 Former Committee member Fundamental to the Boards strategy are high standards of corporate governance Martin Scicluna 1 1 1 designed to ensure rigour in Board discussions number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
Sir Winfried Bischoff Chairman, nomination & Governance Committee Chairmans overview During 2013, the Committee continued to keep under review the Groups governance arrangements, succession planning and the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
In particular, considerable time was spent addressing the following matters: Board appointments the Committee recommended that the Board appoint a number of new directors: nick luff was appointed to replace Martin Scicluna as Chairman of the Audit Committee: Juan Colombs, the Chief Risk Officer, was appointed as an executive Director as a reflection of the Boards desire to elevate the importance of risk management: and Dyfrig John was appointed as a non-executive Director to increase the number of directors with significant banking experience.
Board effectiveness review the Committee considered progress against the 2012 action plan and its approach for 2013.
Following an external review in 2012, it undertook an internal review in 2013, with a view to reverting to an external review in 2014 under the new Chairman of the Board.
Details of the effectiveness review can be found on page 86.
Corporate governance the Committee monitored proposed changes in regulations and ensured that plans were in place to mitigate any risks arising.
Salz Review analysis the Committee oversaw an analysis of the Groups performance against the 34 Salz recommendations.
Details can be found on page 90.
Chairman of TSB Bank the Committee oversaw a comprehensive search for the appointment of a suitable chairman for TSB Bank plc, which culminated in the appointment of Will Samuel in February 2014.
Will brings a wealth of experience to the role and is well-regarded by the market and across the financial services industry.
He is a key hire and will be instrumental in building TSB Banks independent future as a challenger to the other high street banks.
The Group has previously stated its intention to float TSB Bank through an initial public offering in 2014.
JCA Group assisted with the search for Will Samuel.
JCA Group is not connected with the Group.
During the year the Committee met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual effectiveness review.
Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the nomination & Governance Committee is to keep the Boards governance, composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence and succession arrangements under review and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board to ensure the Company's arrangements are consistent with the highest corporate governance standards.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the table below and examples of how it discharged its responsibilities in 2013 follow.
A full list of responsibilities is detailed in the Committees terms of reference, which can be found on our website at www.
Corporate governance Composition, skills and independence Oversees the Boards governance arrangements to Reviews the appropriate structure, size and ensure that they pay due regard to best practice Nomination & Governance composition of the Board, having regard to the principles and remain appropriate.
balance of skills, experience, independence, Committee knowledge and leadership needs of the Group.
Monitors developing trends, initiatives or proposals in relation to board governance issues in the uK Terms of Reference Reviews the independence of non-executive and elsewhere.
Directors, the re-appointment or re-election of Directors and their suitability to continue in office.
Reviews and approves the annual corporate governance report.
Reviews the role, including capabilities and time commitment, of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Monitors Board governance issues including the Senior Independent Director, non-executive establishment of appropriate policies and practices Effectiveness and succession planning Directors, the Group Chief executive and executive to enable the Board to operate effectively and Directors.
Oversees the annual evaluation of the performance efficiently.
of the Board and its Committees, recommending Reviews the Groups corporate governance actions for addressing any findings.
leads the Board selection and appointment process for new Directors.
Conducts an annual review of the adequacy of succession arrangements for executive Directors, mem bers of the Group executive Committee and their direct reports.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 90 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT Committee composition, skills and experience To ensure a broad representation of independent views, including perspectives from each of the Committees, membership of the nomination & Governance Committee comprises the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Chairmen of the Risk and Remuneration Committees and one other independent non-executive Director.
Anita Frew joined the Committee in 2013.
Her experience as Chair and Senior Independent Director on other boards as well as her length of service and perspective further complements the composition of the Committee.
The Group Chief executive attends meetings as appropriate.
Corporate Governance The Committee oversaw the Boards governance arrangements to ensure that they reflected best practice and remain fit for purpose.
In 2013, the Committee received regular corporate governance updates from the Company Secretary.
The reports detailed the impact emerging regulation would have on the Board and its corporate governance practices.
The Committee considered these matters and made recommendations to the Board on how best to respond.
The corporate governance framework, comprising the board authority and the delegated executive authority sets out the responsibilities of the Board and its Committees and details the authorities delegated to management.
In 2013, the Committee recommended changes to the framework to reflect changes to the organisational design, best practice and regulatory requirements.
Salz Review Following the publication of the Salz Review An Independent Review of Barclays Business Practices in April 2013, the Chairman requested that the nomination & Governance Committee oversee a full analysis of the Groups performance against the 34 Salz recommendations with reporting to the Board.
The assessment provided assurance that the practices criticised in the Salz Review were not prevalent within the Group.
The Group is seeking to embed a customer centric culture, which includes changing the way the Group measures colleague performance and incentivises them.
The corporate culture is expressed through the Groups Values and Code of Personal Responsibility.
The cultural change programme is focussed on changing the way the Group measures colleague performance and incentivises them.
It is supplemented by a Group-wide cultural assessment that is helping measure progress and build momentum as we help our 94,000 colleagues adapt to new ways of working by focusing on achieving successful outcomes for our customers rather than successful sales figures.
The Salz recommendations will be subjected to regular review by the Committee and the Board to ensure the desired outcomes are being realised and embedded throughout the business.
Further information on the Groups Responsible Business agenda can be downloaded from www.
Succession planning The nomination & Governance Committee oversees the Boards arrangements for the longer term succession of Board and Committee members.
non-executive Director succession planning is addressed as part of the ongoing review of Board composition.
The policy takes account of the need to regularly refresh the intake of non-executives to bring new, diverse perspectives to the Board and its deliberations, to ensure appropriate representation on each of the Boards Committees and to plan for longer term succession.
The Chairman is responsible for developing and maintaining a succession plan in relation to the Group Chief executive who is in turn, primarily responsible for developing and maintaining a succession plan for key leadership positions in the senior executive team.
For information on diversity, please refer to page 83.
Board and Committee composition The nomination & Governance Committee assists the Chairman in his assessment of the skills, experience, knowledge, composition and diversity of the Board and its Committees.
During 2013, the Committee identified the need to appoint a number of directors.
In March 2013, nick luff joined the Board as a non-executive Director and, in due course, succeeded Martin Scicluna as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr luff, who has over 10 years experience as a finance director, has recent and relevant financial expertise and a sound understanding of internal reporting and controls.
In november 2013, the Group announced the appointment of Juan Colombs to the Board.
Mr Colombs has been the Groups Chief Risk Officer and a member of the Group executive Committee since January 2011.
The appointment of Mr Colombs increases the number of executive Directors on the Board from two to three and demonstrates the Boards desire to elevate the importance of risk management in the Group.
It also reflects the significant work that Mr Colombs has done to reshape the risk function within lloyds Banking Group over the past three years.
As part of Mr Colombs development, he attended Board meetings from February 2013 onwards prior to his appointment to the Board in november 2013.
Dyfrig John, who joined the Board in January 2014, has significant uK retail banking experience, having served in various senior management roles throughout his career, most notably for HSBC Bank Plc as its Deputy Chairman and Chief executive Officer, uK and europe.
The search for additional directors with relevant banking, finance and risk experience continues, as well as for a Director to replace lord Blackwell as Chairman of Scottish Widows.
A description of the Boards policy on diversity is set out on page 83.
The biographies of Mr luff, Mr Colombs and Mr John can be found on pages 70 and 71.
The JCA Group assisted with the search for nick luff and Dyfrig John and are assisting with the search for the Chairman of Scottish Widows.
effectiveness The nomination & Governance Committee developed an action plan to address the issues identified out of the 2012 external Board effectiveness review.
Full details of this action plan, and the 2013 effectiveness review and outcomes are set out on page 86.
Independence The nomination & Governance Committee is responsible for the ongoing assessment of the independence of non-executive Directors.
In assessing independence, the Committee did not rely solely on the Code criteria but considered whether, in fact, the non-executive Director was demonstrably independent and free of relationships and other circumstances that could affect their judgement as well as relevant external factors.
It did this with reference to the individual performance and conduct in reaching decisions.
It also took account of any relationships that had been disclosed and authorised by the Board.
Based on its assessment for 2013, the nomination & Governance Committee is satisfied that, throughout the year, all non-executive Directors remained independent as to both character and judgement.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 90 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Audit Committee report 1 Meetings attended held in 2013 Committee chairman nick luff 6 6 Committee members 2 lord Blackwell 8 9 Carolyn Fairbairn 9 9 Anita Frew 9 9 David Roberts 9 9 The Audit Committee spent extensive time in 2013 Anthony Watson 9 9 considering the significant judgements in the Former Committee member Groups financial reporting, including reviewing Martin Scicluna 3 3 the assumptions made by management in 1 number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
2 determining the provision for PPI redress.
The views of the Directors who are unable to attend meetings are provided to the Committee Chairman for representation at the meeting.
Nick Luff Chairman, Audit Committee Chairmans overview I succeeded Martin Scicluna as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 31 March 2013 and am pleased to be able to continue his good work.
During the year, the Audit Committee met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual effectiveness review.
The Committee spent considerable time reviewing the adequacy of provisions relating to Payment Protection Insurance PPI every quarter.
Two additional meetings were convened specifically for this purpose.
Assessing the appropriate level for the provision involves considerable judgment, with significant uncertainty around the expected volume of future reactive complaints, the impact of proactive past business reviews and the operational costs of the PPI programme.
Recognising these uncertainties, the Committee also oversaw enhancements to the disclosures relating to PPI at the year end.
In addition to PPI, in the context of financial reporting, the Committee maintained a focus on loan impairments and other conduct related provisions, deferred tax assets and valuation of assets and liabilities arising in the insurance business.
The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts as well as the Interim Reports prior to approval by the Board.
under the Committees oversight, significant progress was made during 2013 in improving the effectiveness of Group Audit.
A new charter for Group Audit was adopted, the Committee reviewed the audit plan in greater depth, and the formal reporting line for the Group Audit Director was changed such that the reporting line is to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Group Audit provided strong support for the Committees work during the year, in relation to both financial reporting, and internal control and risk management.
The Committee continues to be satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit.
Reviewing the audit plan with  llP PwC enabled the Committee to ensure audit work focused on key risk areas and helped identify areas where improvements could be made to the focus of their work.
In light of concerns expressed by the Financial Reporting Council on aspects of the quality of audits of financial institutions, the Committee ensured that the work done by the external auditor on loan impairments addressed the areas of concern and understood more the audit work undertaken on key IT systems.
looking forwards, a key issue for the Committee in 2014 will be when to conduct a tender for the external audit, taking into account the recommendations and requirements of various regulatory bodies on the subject.
Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review the Groups financial reporting arrangements, the effectiveness of the internal controls and the risk management framework, and the internal and external audit processes.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, all of which have been accepted during the year.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the table on the next page.
Committee composition, skills and experience The Audit Committee acts independently of the executive to ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors with recent and relevant experience in finance and or banking.
During 2013, nick luff succeeded Martin Scicluna as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
nick is a chartered accountant and has significant financial experience in the uK listed environment which enables him to fulfil the role of Audit Committee Chair and, for SeC purposes, the role of Audit Committee Financial expert.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 92 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT Internal control and risk management Financial reporting External audit Reviews the effectiveness of systems for internal Monitors the integrity of the financial statements of Makes recommendations concerning the control, financial reporting and risk management.
the Group and reviews the critical accounting policies.
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor.
Considers the major findings of any internal Reviews and challenges, where necessary, the investigations into control weaknesses, fraud or actions, estimates and judgements of management, Oversees the relationship with the external auditor, misconduct and managements response.
in relation to the interim and annual financial including the terms of engagement including statements.
remuneration and their effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
Reviews the content of the annual report and accounts and interim management statements and Agrees the policy for and provision of non-audit advises the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is services.
Agrees the policy on the employment of former Audit Assesses and challenges the going concern employees of the external auditor.
Committee Reviews the qualifications, expertise and resources of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit Terms of Reference process.
Approves the annual audit plan, to ensure that it is Internal audit consistent with the scope of the audit engagement Monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal and coordinated with the activities of Group Audit.
audit function and the internal audit programme.
Whistleblowing Reviews the findings of audits with the external Reviews the adequacy of the Group Audits auditor, considering managements responsiveness Reviews arrangements by which staff may, in resources, its internal audit programme and standing to the auditors findings and recommendations.
confidence, raise concerns about possible within the Company.
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or Monitors the effectiveness of the external audit by a Considers the major findings of any significant other matters.
formal annual assessment and also the results of any internal audit, and managements response.
reviews published by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review.
Approves the appointment or removal of the Group Audit Director.
Financial reporting During the year, the Committee considered the following significant financial issues judgements in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures, with input from management, Group Audit and the external auditor: Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions Payment Protection Insurance PPI The Audit Committee spent considerable time in 2013 challenging the assumptions made Determining the adequacy of the provision by management in determining the provision for PPI redress.
for redress payments in connection with The key assumption that the Audit Committee focused on was future complaints volumes mis-selling of PPI is highly judgemental and associated operational costs.
Management used a combination of analyses to forecast and requires the Group to make a number future complaint volumes, including statistical modelling and customer surveys.
The Audit of assumptions, including the number of Committee challenged the appropriateness of these methods for forecasting complaint complaints that will be received in the future, volumes, giving consideration to the total PPI policies sold by the Group.
response rates to proactive mailings, uphold Group Audit provided assurance to the Audit Committee that the process was undertaken rates for complaints received, average redress in a controlled manner using reasonable, consistent and supportable assumptions payments and related administrative costs.
In 2013, the Audit Committee concluded that the processes followed by In the 2013 full year results, an additional management in determining the provision for PPI redress were appropriate, although they provision of 3.1 billion was reflected for will be considered periodically against actual claims experience.
The provision brought the The Audit Committee considered the appropriateness of disclosures in the news Release total amount set aside by the Group to cover and this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Audit Committee oversaw enhancements made PPI costs to 9.8 billion.
to the PPI disclosure to ensure that they reflected the continuing uncertainty that remains around the ultimate actual cost of PPI, that appropriate sensitivities are provided to allow an understanding of the key assumptions underlying the provision and that changes in the provision were appropriately explained.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the PPI provision and disclosures were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to PPI are set out in note 43: Other provisions on page 281 of the financial statements.
Other conduct provisions The Audit Committee spent time understanding and assessing the provision for other The Group has a number of other provisions conduct related matters.
for conduct related matters, all of which are For derivatives mis-sold to SMes, the Audit Committee understood the basis for determining judgemental and require the Group to make a forecast average redress payments based on experience to date, and the adequacy of number of assumptions.
provisions made for operational costs for the expected duration of the programme.
In the 2013 full year results, an additional More broadly, the Audit Committee challenged management on their processes and provision of 130 million was made for derivatives controls for ensuring that all conduct related matters were identified and that exposures mis-sold to small and medium-sized enterprises and associated provisions were appropriately quantified where necessary.
SMes, taking the total provision to 530 million.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the provisions for other conduct matters were There is a provision of 400 million in relation appropriate.
The disclosures relating to other conduct provisions are set out in note 43: to the Groups insurance branch business Other provisions on page 281 of the financial statements.
in Germany, and a number of other smaller provisions that total some 200 million in relation to other conduct and compliance matters.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 92 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions Allowance for impairment losses on loans The Audit Committee received regular reports in relation to impairment provisioning and receivables from management during 2013, presented by the Credit Risk Officers responsible for Determining the appropriateness of determining provisions in each of the divisions.
impairment losses is judgemental and requires Key assumptions challenged by the Audit Committee included the criteria for determining the Group to make a number of assumptions.
when a loan was impaired particularly as it related to the Groups strategy and whether In the 2013 full year results, a charge of previous provisions were appropriate when these subsequently changed for loans that were 2,726 million was reflected for impairment already impaired.
Group Audit performed work to assess the effectiveness of impairment governance and processes and reported their findings to the Audit Committee.
The audits considered whether management oversight, review processes and key judgements were adequately supported by quantitative analysis and detailed management information.
The work carried out by Group Audit considered the basis for adjustments and calibrations to model output results and found these to be reasonable and supported by observed performance.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the impairment provisions were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 54: Financial risk management on pages 327 to 349 of the financial statements.
Recoverability of the deferred tax asset The Audit Committee considered the recognition of deferred tax assets, in particular the The recoverability of the deferred tax asset in forecast taxable profits based on the Groups five year operating plan, the split of these respect of carry forward losses requires the forecasts by legal entity and the impact of the adjustment to the pension deficit on the consideration of the future levels of taxable implementation of IAS 19 R. profit in the Group.
The Audit Committee agreed with managements judgement that the deferred tax assets The Groups total deferred tax asset at were appropriately supported by forecast taxable profits, taking into account the Groups 31 December 2013 included 6,338 million in long-term financial and strategic plans.
The disclosures relating to deferred tax are set out respect of trading losses carried forward.
Based in note 3: Critical accounting estimates and judgements on page 225 and note 42: Deferred on the Groups forecast taxable profit, the tax on pages 279 and 280 of the financial statements.
losses are expected to be fully utilised by 2019.
Uncertain tax positions The Audit Committee understood the uncertain tax positions of the Group, including the respective The Group has a number of open tax matters views of the Group and the relevant tax authorities.
The Audit Committee also understood the which requires the Group to make judgements external advice obtained by management to support the views taken by the Group.
as to the likely outturn for the purposes of The Audit Committee was satisfied that the disclosures made in respect of uncertain tax calculating its tax position.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note 52: Contingent liabilities and commitments on page 308 of the financial statements.
Retirement benefit obligations The Audit Committee considered the assumptions underlying the calculation of defined Determining the value of the defined benefit benefit liabilities, in particular the discount rate applied to future cash flows and the rate of obligation is judgemental and requires the pension increases.
Group to determine a number of economic The Audit Committee was satisfied that the value and disclosures made in respect of and non-economic actuarial assumptions.
retirement benefit obligations were appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note 41: Retirement benefit obligations on pages 271to 279 of the financial statements.
Value-In-Force VIF asset and The Audit Committee considered and challenged the calculation of the value of expected insurance liabilities future net cash flows from currently in-force insurance contracts and the liabilities arising Determining the value of the VIF asset and from those contracts.
insurance liabilities is judgemental and The Audit Committee was satisfied that the value of the VIF asset and insurance liabilities requires the Group to determine a number were appropriate.
The disclosures are set out in note 28: Value of in-force business and of economic and non-economic actuarial note 36: liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts, assumptions, including longevity, persistency, on pages 257 to 258 and 262 to 268, respectively, of the financial statements.
expenses, credit risk and illiquidity premiums.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 94 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT Group Audit During 2013 the Audit Committee monitored the effectiveness of Group Audit and their audit programme, approving the audit plan and budget and confirming that appropriate resources were in place to execute the plan effectively.
Group Audit carried out over 400 audits in 2013 of varying size and complexity.
Certain thematic audits focused on the Groups embedding of the risk appetite, the integrity of the risk management framework, customer outcomes, corporate culture, business applications and strategic risks.
A number of these audits supported the Groups implementation of the new CIIA Code recommendations.
The overall findings from Group Audit are presented to the Audit Committee with specific review of the findings from the most significant audit activity.
Internal control and risk management Details of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process is given within the risk management report on page 123.
Specific matters that the Audit Committee considered during 2013 included: the scope of the work being undertaken as part of the Finance Transformation programme, in particular the implementation of a new consolidation system for the Group: the extent of work being performed by the Finance teams across the Group and considering the adequacy of resources in place to ensure that the control environment continued to operate effectively: and assessing control deficiencies identified as part of the assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the requirements of the uS Sarbanes Oxley Act.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that internal controls over financial reporting were appropriately designed and operating effectively.
Whistleblowing Throughout 2013 the Committee received reports from management on the Groups Whistleblowing line activity, a summary of key cases and the effectiveness of the Whistleblowing Governance Structure.
The Committee oversaw the following key developments in 2013: Independent Call Handling: the existing whistleblower hotline was replaced in 2013 by a 24 hour, multilingual service, managed externally by an independent service provider: Mandatory Training: Group-wide mandatory Whistleblowing training was developed and rolled out across the Group, raising awareness of the regime: and Victimisation: changes introduced by the enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act prompted measures to ensure whistleblowers are protected from harassment by co-workers.
External audit Auditor independence and remuneration Both the Board and the external auditor have safeguards in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has a comprehensive policy to regulate the use of the auditor for non-audit services.
This policy sets out the nature of work the external auditor may not undertake and guidance on the hiring of former external audit staff.
In some cases, PwC are selected over another service provider due to their detailed knowledge and understanding of the business.
Any allowable non-audit services with a value above a defined fee limit requires prior approval from the Audit Committee Chairman.
The total amount paid to the auditor in 2013 is shown in note 11 to the financial statements on pages 238 to 240.
How the Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process In 2013, the Group engaged an external provider, Independent Audit, to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The review included seeking views of Audit Committee members, senior executives across the business and members of Group Audit, through a questionnaire and a number of one to one interviews, together with consideration of the reports provided by PwC to the Audit Committee.
The review concluded that the external audit process was effective and identified a number of areas where further enhancements could be made.
Independent Audit is not connected with the Group.
Tenure of the external auditor PwC has been the auditor of lloyds Banking Group plc since 1995.
A tender has not been conducted since.
Prior to that, PwC and its predecessor firms were also the auditors to certain of the Groups predecessor companies.
The Committee considers each year whether to put the external audit to tender.
With the current audit partner required to rotate off the audit after the 2015 audit, the Committee is considering whether to conduct a tender in the second half of 2014, with a view to appointing a new audit firm, or reappointing PwC, with effect from 1 January 2016, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in 2015.
A final decision will be made during the year, after consideration of the requirements of proposed eu legislation that may restrict the period for which PwC could be reappointed before a mandatory change of auditor is required.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 94 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Board Risk Committee report 1 Meetings attended held in 2013 Committee chairman David Roberts 6 6 Committee members Sir Winfried Bischoff 6 6 lord Blackwell 6 6 Anita Frew 6 6 nick luff 5 5 The Groups strategy and strong risk 2 Anthony Watson 5 6 discipline has led to a safer, low risk bank.
Sara Weller 6 6 David Roberts Former Committee members Chairman, Board Risk Committee Martin Scicluna 1 1 Timothy T Ryan 3 3 1 number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
2 The views of the Directors who are unable to attend meetings are provided to the Committee Chairman for representation at the meeting.
Chairmans overview I am pleased to report the Board Risk Committee fulfilled its responsibilities and met its key objectives, whilst the annual Board effectiveness review concluded the Committee continued to operate effectively.
The Committee maintains an appropriate balance of its scheduled review of key risks, whilst maintaining a dynamic approach so that emerging risks are appropriately escalated and considered and management actions and plans are constructively challenged.
The Committee continued its focus on improving the quality of the information presented to it in order to better understand the current and emerging risks facing the Group, as well as ensuring the Groups risk management frameworks, policies, practices and procedures remain appropriate for the risks faced, and are fully embedded within the business.
The development of a suitable risk culture remains a critical component of effective risk management and the Committee will continue to oversee managements efforts in this regard.
In 2013, the uK economy continued to recover against a background of tight fiscal policy, restrictive credit conditions, weak consumer purchasing power and muted global growth.
In addition, the regulatory and political environment tightened, with increased focus on conduct risk.
notwithstanding these external challenges, I am pleased to report the Groups strategy and risk discipline has led to a safer, low risk bank.
Juan Colombs, Chief Risk Officer, and a member of the Group executive Committee since January 2011, was appointed to the Board in november 2013.
His appointment reflects the importance of risk management within the Group and the significant work he has done to reshape the risk function, including driving the conduct strategy.
Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Board Risk Committee is to monitor the Groups compliance with the Boards approved risk appetite, risk management framework and risk culture.
The key responsibilities of the Board Risk Committee are set out in the table below and examples of how it discharged its responsibilities follow.
Committee composition, skills and experience The Chair of the Board Risk Committee, David Roberts, has a deep understanding of risk management, underpinned by in-depth knowledge of all aspects of banking operations, having spent his career in banking.
David is supported on the Committee by non executive Director members who have a variety of industry backgrounds, including banking, financial services and retail, who bring scrutiny and fresh perspective to the risk management framework of the Group.
The Committee composition therefore includes core banking and risk knowledge, together with the breadth that brings wider knowledge from other sectors and a clear awareness of customer needs.
As a reflection of the degree of importance attached to risk in the Group, all Directors attend the Board Risk Committee meetings, including those Directors who are not members.
The Group Audit Director and the external auditor also attend Board Risk Committee meetings.
Risk Division Risk management Reviews and discusses with the Chief Risk Officer the Oversees the development, implementation and scope of work of the Risk Division, its plans, the issues maintenance of the Groups overall risk management identified as a result of its work, how management framework and its risk appetite, strategy, principles Board Risk Committee is addressing these issues and the effectiveness of and policies.
Terms of Reference systems of risk management.
Oversees the Groups risk exposures and Reviews the appointment, resignation or dismissal of risk return.
Provides input into the alignment of executive Reviews the adequacy of the Risk Divisions resources, remuneration to risk performance.
its authorities and standing within the Company.
Risk principles and policy Reviews new and material amendments to the risk principles and policy, recommended by the Group Chief executive and Chief Risk Officer.
Oversees adherence to Group risk principles, policies and standards and any action taken resulting from material policy breaches.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 96 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT Key matters considered by the Committee Set out below are some of the key matters considered in 2013.
Issue Approach Board risk appetite The Committee reviewed each of the Board risk appetite statements and metrics and recommended the risk appetite to the Board as part of its annual review.
Consolidated risks At each meeting, the Committee considered and challenged managements assessment and future projected status of all of the major and emerging risks and tracks the risks against appetite.
Conduct risk The Committee received a presentation on conduct risk at each of its meetings with particular focus on learning from past failings, the Groups conduct strategy, meeting customer needs and outcome testing.
Divisional risks The Committee received deep dive updates of the risk profile and emerging issues from each of the Divisions.
Stress testing The Committee reviewed the results of the application of economic stress test scenarios against the five year operating plan and approved risk appetite limits.
The Committee also received regular reports from the Group Chief economist on the macro-economic outlook.
Capital and liquidity The Committee received regular reports on the capital and liquidity position of the Group under stress including the impact of regulatory changes.
Remuneration The Committee reviewed, ahead of the Remuneration Committee, the internal independent control functions risk assessments of the Group and its Divisions, to ensure that the awards proposed clearly consider the observance of risk appetite and demonstration of strong risk management.
The Committee also received updates on rewards and incentive schemes, to ensure they aligned with appropriate culture and sustainable performance.
Insurance risk The Committee agrees the specific insurance risk appetite, which aligns with the Group risk appetite, and monitors against this as part of the suite of risk reporting.
Operational risk The Committee receives regular updates across the spectrum of operational risk from business areas and from Risk Division presentations, including incident management approaches, the advanced measurement approach, records management, and IT including cyber risk.
The Committee also received reports from the Anti-Money laundering Officer, and regular divisional and second line oversight presentations.
Macro economic conditions The Committee received regular updates on the macro economic conditions and risks from the Chief economist, to enable it to effectively challenge strategy and risk appetite.
Regulatory developments The Committee received regular updates from management on regulatory developments and assessed the impact of those developments on the Groups risk profile.
IT resilience The Committee set the framework for, and oversaw, an external review of IT resilience and considered the Groups exposure to cyber risk.
examples of how the Board Risk Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2013 are set out below.
Risk appetite lloyds Banking Group defines risk appetite as the amount and type of risk that our organisation is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
The risk appetite evolves in tandem with the Groups strategy and is embedded within policies, authorities and limits across the Group.
Further details on the Groups risk appetite can be found in the risk report on pages 123 to 196.
The Board Risk Committee carried out its annual review of the Groups risk appetite in April 2013 for recommendation to the Board.
The review considered the statements and risk appetite metrics under each category of identified risk which included: funding and liquidity: capital: market: earnings: operational risk: regulatory and conduct: people and risk culture: and credit.
In July, the Board Risk Committee reviewed and recommended additional operational risk appetite metrics which had been developed following the earlier April discussion.
Performance against each of the risk appetite metrics is considered by the Committee at each of its meetings.
Debate also takes place on emerging risks and reputational risks, and where appropriate management are asked to review, revise, or subsequently present proposals or further information.
TSB Bank plc is required to operate within the Groups risk appetite.
The Committee considered TSB Banks risk appetite and metrics on two occasions during the year and reported to the Board that TSB Banks risk appetite was appropriate.
Insurance risk The Board Risk Committee reviewed the insurance divisional risk appetite to ensure that it was specifically relevant to the Insurance Division, its separate prudential needs, and the separate categories of risks that are relevant to the insurance business.
The insurance business has its own separate board and risk committee.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 96 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Quality of risk reporting The consolidated risk report has been significantly enhanced to provide the Board Risk Committee and the Board with a deep understanding of the current and emerging risks on a Group and divisional basis.
The summary risk appetite dashboard tracks the movement over time of the risk assessment for each category of risk and a separate dashboard has been created to track the reputational and financial impact of key risks.
These dashboards allow the Committee to isolate key risks quickly and, given the quality of supporting information provided, challenge management on their assessment of the risks.
Conduct risk The Board Risk Committee received a presentation from management on conduct risk at each of its meetings.
The presentations during the year included: reviews of prior conduct issues and regulatory investigations to identify lessons learnt: the review of conduct issues under management: reviews of the Groups conduct strategy and its embedded status including reports from Group Audit: sales processes and product governance, including the progress of annual product risk assessments, the results of outcome testing including mystery shopping results and complaint metrics: rewards and incentives: and specific deep dives, including reviews of certain products prior to and following their launch.
Capital and stress testing The Committee received regular presentations from management on capital and leverage, the evolving prudential regulatory expectations, including outputs from the Financial Policy Committee of the Bank of england, and appropriate updates on the rating agency views of the Group.
Stress testing was conducted to assess the Groups risk profile against approved risk appetite and acts as a discussion basis with the regulator for the setting of the capital planning buffer.
The Committee reviewed the results of the low interest rate and high interest rate stress test scenarios designed by the regulator and of specific stress scenarios designed by management in conjunction with the Groups Chief economist which included rating downgrades, together with managements mitigating actions.
The Committee was satisfied with the results and recommended to the Board that the indicative capital planning buffer was appropriate.
IT resilience IT resilience received particular regulatory focus and media attention during the year due to the much publicised IT failings within the industry.
The Board Risk Committee oversaw a review of IT resilience to ensure a rapid and robust identification of residual risks across the IT architecture and supporting IT capabilities.
A review was conducted with the findings and proposed remedial actions reported to the Board.
As part of the review, the Group defined critical economic functions and IT capabilities in order that key IT systems were identified and a detailed plan was developed.
The high level risk appetite was defined in consultation with key stakeholders and approved by the Board.
The Board Risk Committee set the framework for the review which will be conducted annually and reported independently to the Board who are now responsible for oversight.
Cyber risk The Board Risk Committee also reviewed and agreed levels of risk appetite, strategy and planned investment to deal with changes in the cyber risk landscape.
Risk management framework review The Chief Risk Officer provides the Board Risk Committee with an annual review of the status of the Groups governance and internal control framework for endorsement and recommendation to the Board.
The 2013 review was for the first time conducted against the nine components of the Groups risk management framework see Risk Overview, page40, which include the arrangements for the cascade of delegated authority from the Board to its Committees and the Group Chief executive, and the status of the risk governance and Group policy frameworks.
The 2013 review concluded that the Groups risk management framework is effective in design, its corporate governance arrangements are stable and the policy framework is also stable following a substantive review and refresh in 2011 12.
Alongside the risk management framework review, the Board Risk Committee also considered the approach and key findings of the annual control effectiveness review see page 87, before referring it to the Audit Committee to review in conjunction with Group Audits control framework assessment.
Risk Division The Board Risk Committee is supported by the Risk Division and a number of management committees looking at different risk areas within the business.
In 2013, the Committee conducted an annual review of the adequacy of the Risk Divisions resources, its authority and standing within the Group.
The review scrutinised the Risk Divisions annual plan, which sets out how the Risk Division will achieve clear outcomes from individual teams in a structured and measurable manner.
The Committee concluded that the Risk Division is adequately resourced and continues to have sufficient authority and standing within the Group.
This outcome further reflects the importance of risk management in the Group.
The Committee received six monthly progress updates from management detailing the Risk Divisions key achievements.
Where activity deviates from the plan, actions are agreed to address any operational gaps.
More information on the Groups approach to risk management can be found on pages 123 to 196 of the risk management section.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 98 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATe GOVeRnAnCe RePORT Remuneration Committee report 1 Meetings attended held in 2013 Committee chairman Anthony Watson 10 10 Committee members Sir Winfried Bischoff 10 10 Carolyn Fairbairn 10 10 David Roberts 10 10 Sara Weller 10 10 The Remuneration Committee was responsive Former Committee member to, and dealt effectively with, the quickening pace Timothy Ryan 7 7 of regulatory change and uncertain market 1 number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
Anthony Watson Chairman, Remuneration Committee Chairmans overview I am pleased to report good progress has been made on remuneration matters and their governance over the past year.
The Remuneration Committee met its key objectives and carried out it responsibilities and the annual effectiveness review concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
The Committee considered remuneration governance and refined the design of incentive plans whilst being mindful of market and regulatory developments.
The changes have led to more consistent and effective consideration of risk in reward management across the Group.
This ensures a robust framework exists to mitigate key regulatory and people risks associated with reward decisions and supports sustainable growth, consistent with the risk appetite framework agreed by the Board.
The Committee is working with the Risk Division to further embed effective risk management into the culture of the organisation.
In addition to the responsibilities set out below, the Committee looked at TSB Bank remuneration strategy, policy and governance.
This included the treatment of bonuses for colleagues transferred to TSB Bank and salaries for senior executives.
external developments, principally through CRD IV and the Salz Review, were considered and factored into the annual review of Group incentive plans.
Committee purpose and responsibilities The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to consider, agree and recommend to the Board an overall remuneration policy and philosophy for the Group that is aligned with its long term business strategy, its business objectives, its risk appetite, values and the long term interests of the Group that recognises the interests of relevant stakeholders.
The key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the table below and examples of how it discharged its responsibilities follow.
Committee composition, skills and experience The Committee is comprised of non-executive Directors from a wide background to provide a balanced and independent view on remuneration matters.
The Chairman, Anthony Watson, has over 40 years experience in the investment industry related sectors and is well placed to lead the Committee.
Remuneration Committee meetings are attended by Deloitte llP who act as the Groups remuneration consultant.
Deloitte is not connected with the Group.
Executive remuneration Remuneration policy Determines and approves the contracts of Reviews annually the report from the Group HR employment, the terms of any performance related Director on the operation of the Remuneration Remuneration pay schemes and subsequently, individuals Governance Policy and its effectiveness.
Committee performance against targets, in respect of the Monitors the application of the authority delegated Group Chief executive, the Company Secretary, Terms of Reference to the Group Chief executive and the Divisional Code Staff and any individual whose total Business Area Remuneration Committees.
liaises as required with the Board Risk Committee Sets the policy and principles to be applied by the and Risk Division in relation to risk-adjusted Group executive Committee in relation to any performance measures.
performance related pay schemes for individuals who Remuneration reporting are considered to be in a significant influence function Commissions an annual review of the risks arising or have material impact on the risk profile of the Group Reports annually to the Board the substance of the from the Group's remuneration policies.
Companys remuneration policy and proposes any Recommends the approval by shareholders of the substantive changes.
Reviews and approves the remuneration of all design of any longer term performance related Recommends to the Board the contents of the senior officers in the risk management and pay schemes, and any significant changes to Directors remuneration policy and implementation compliance functions.
Determines the eligibility and targets for any longer term performance related pay schemes, and subsequently reviews performance against these targets and proposes any awards.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 98 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Executive remuneration Gender remuneration review The Group is committed to the principle of equal pay and intends that all colleagues should be paid fairly regardless of their age, gender, race, disability or other personal characteristics.
To test this principle, the Committee commissioned a review into the differences in base pay between genders in senior executive roles, where bias was most likely to arise.
The review concluded that the average position to market does not show gender bias in any division, function or grade.
Although no definitive bias was identified in this study, the Committee now receives annual reports on the topic to ensure there are no adverse changes.
Strategic reward review A key pillar of the Groups People Strategy is to ensure our reward approach supports the Groups strategic goals.
In late 2012, the Committee commissioned a strategic reward review.
The objective was to optimise the current total remuneration spend across the Group in order to create a compelling, affordable and integrated reward proposition that aligns with our vision of being the best bank for customers.
A broad range of proposals were considered culminating in a number of specific Committee recommendations, which were evolutionary in nature and address a number of key strategic issues.
Remuneration reporting Changes to the remuneration reporting regime The Committee dedicated significant time in 2013 to assessing the impact of changes to the remuneration reporting regime on the Groups approach to executive remuneration.
The Groups remuneration policy report sets out the parameters of the directors remuneration package.
The remuneration policy was developed by the Committee having considered the ways in which the Group can strengthen and simplify the alignment of remuneration with its business performance and relative to shareholder returns.
The policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 annual general meeting and requires that a majority of shareholders vote in favour of the policy before it can be implemented.
The Directors remuneration report on pages 100 to 122 summarises the amounts awarded to executive management and to be awarded in accordance with the policy, together with various other information to help shareholders understand the Committees decisions over the past year.
Many of the changes to the report under the new regulations are technical in nature and did not require substantial Committee involvement however, some sensitive disclosures did require the Committees guidance.
The report is subject to an advisory vote at the 2014 annual general meeting.
Whilst the outcome of this resolution is not binding on the Group, it does provide a clear indication to the Committee of whether its decisions are supported by the shareholders.
The Committee has striven to ensure that the remuneration policies and practices detailed in the remuneration policy and remuneration report are appropriate to supporting the delivery of the Groups current and future strategy.
Governance Remuneration Governance Policy The purpose of the remuneration governance policy is to provide a framework to support robust governance in line with the Groups risk appetite and aligned with the Groups business strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests.
The governance policy is designed to achieve compliance with european Commission regulation and the PRA Remuneration Code and supports consistent and effective risk management that accepts risk-taking only within the tolerated risk appetite of the Group and in line with our business strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests.
effective management of remuneration governance and risk allows the Group to attract and retain individuals of the required calibre to deliver the Groups business strategy, drive appropriate behaviour from colleagues and avoid unexpected risks.
A number of controls are in place to ensure compliance with the governance policy, PRA Remuneration Code and to mitigate risk.
The main controls are summarised below: an annual self-assessment of the Committee regarding its ability to fulfil its responsibilities: an annual attestation by members of the Group executive Committee that remuneration decisions in the Divisions for which they are responsible have been made in accordance with the governance policy and are aligned with Group strategy and risk appetite: and an annual self-assessment by divisional functional remuneration committees against the responsibilities set out within their terms of reference.
Where areas for improvement are identified, action plans are designed and implemented.
The Committee reviews annually a report from the Group HR Director on the operation of the remuneration governance policy and its effectiveness.
In 2013, the report concluded that effective systems and controls are in place for all requirements of the governance policy and that it delivers outcomes in line with the Groups values, reward principles and the PRA Remuneration Code.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
