Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 28 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RelATIOnSHIPS AnD ReSPOnSIBIlITY Building valuable relationships We have one strategy for delivering sustainable success being the best bank for customers and doing business responsibly is inherent in this strategy.
Antnio Horta-Osrio, Group Chief Executive International labour Organisation Fundamental Conventions and this is With over 30 million individual and business customers outlined within our Code of Business Responsibility.
and a presence in communities across the country, we Certain sectors carry inherent social, ethical and environmental risks.
Our are very well placed to serve the countrys households, policies and procedures support colleagues working in our relationship businesses and communities, and to make a significant management and risk teams in understanding how to approach, assess contribution to the future strength and prosperity of and manage these risks.
We are signatories to the equator Principles, the uK.
We have one strategy for delivering sustainable which provide a framework for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in project finance transactions.
Our Code of success being the best bank for customers, and Business Responsibility states that we do not finance any activities prohibited doing business responsibly is inherent in this strategy.
by International conventions supported by the uK government.
You can read about our approach to managing environmental risk and the equator Being responsible enables us to build colleagues pride in a business that Principles in the risk management section on page 162. does the right thing and helps to rebuild public trust in the banking industry.
We recognise that the biggest shift we need to make is cultural: we need Our focus on doing business responsibly is recognised by our continued responsible business to become business as usual for colleagues.
The shift presence in the FTSe4Good socially responsible investment index, our in culture is already underway.
We can only achieve our customer focused position in CDP Carbon Disclosure Project and our platinum status in the strategy by building a sound reputation founded on the highest standards Business in the Community CR Index.
Our Responsible Business Report provides an update on our responsible business activities in 2013.
You can read the full report on our website at Being a responsible business www.
Our approach to responsible business is governed by our Responsible Business Committee RBC.
Chaired by Anita Frew, one of our The Helping Britain Prosper Plan non-executive Directors, who, in this capacity reports directly to the We see ourselves as having a clear role to play in helping Britain prosper and, Group Board, the RBC develops our principles, sets priorities and ensures as a significant uK retail and commercial bank, we are already doing more responsible business is embedded throughout our operations.
The Group than our peers to help people manage their finances.
To demonstrate that Responsible Business team manages our day-to-day responsible business responsible business is fully integrated into our broader business strategy, activities.
To help us decide what information to include in our responsible our management structures and the way we measure performance, we have business reporting, we have engaged with a representative cross-section launched a new Helping Britain Prosper Plan see opposite page.
This simple of our stakeholders including colleagues and external parties to review but ambitious Plan sets out seven long-term commitments and aspirations our approach to materiality and prioritise the issues.
For 2013, we have to help Britain prosper, covering the areas where we can make the biggest reported against our five pillars of responsible business covering customers, difference for our customers across households, businesses and communities.
colleagues, communities, other stakeholders and the environment.
These People across Britain are facing some big issues a lack of affordable five pillars encompass all of our most important relationships and are integral housing, the challenge of finding a job or escaping the trap of financial to our strategy to be the best bank for customers.
We report here on our exclusion, the health issues that arise as more of us live longer and the recent success and priorities in each of these areas.
difficulties of starting or running a successful business in tough times.
The To ensure the highest standards of responsible behaviour, all colleagues are Helping Britain Prosper Plan is our response to some of these big issues: the required to work in accordance with our Code of Personal Responsibility and ones were best placed to help our customers tackle.
These codes set out how we do business Were the first uK bank to launch a plan like this.
Were doing it because and what customers and stakeholders can expect.
They are governed by the were sure of our purpose: to be a responsible, sustainably successful RBC.
They cover the full breadth of our responsibilities, under the five pillars business that helps Britain prosper.
We also believe that the Helping Britain of responsible business and are aligned to our Group Values.
Prosper Plan is a way to rebuild trust with our customers by demonstrating Our Codes of Responsibility underpin our Group ethics Policy and set out that were focused on the issues they face.
Customers will be able to see clear guidelines for responsible behaviour across our business.
We adhere from the Plan that their concerns are also our concerns.
Other stakeholders to the principles of the united nations Declaration of Human Rights and will be able to benchmark our future performance against the Plan.
support the un Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 28 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 The Helping Britain Prosper Plan 2014 target 2017 target Well help more customers get 1.1 number of first-time buyers supported through delivering the most 1 on the housing ladder and more comprehensive mortgage proposition in the uK mortgage market 80,000 1 in 4 customers climb up it 1.2 Share of new build mortgages provided for first-time buyers, second steppers and private rented 1 in 4 1 in 4 2014 target 2017 target Well help our customers plan 2 2.1 number of customers we help to plan for later life through company 1.1m 1.3m and save for later life pension schemes cumulative cumulative 2.2 number of customers we help post-retirement through providing a 0.55m 0.6m continuing annuity income cumulative cumulative 2014 target 2017 target Well take a lead in financial inclusion 3 3.1 Amount of additional funding provided to support Credit unions per year 1m 1m to enable all individuals to access, 3.2 Share of social banking accounts we will support 1 in 4 1 in 4 and benefit from, the products and services they need to make the most 3.3 number of community support workers accredited to deliver financial 1,830 4,000 1 education on the front line cumulative cumulative of their money 3.4 Maintain a category gold award with the Business Disability Forum BDF by 2 achieving a high score across the 10 areas that lead to a disability confident organisation 90% score 90% score 2014 target 2017 target Well help businesses to start up 4 4.1 Increased amount of net lending to SMes on an annual basis total cumulative 1bn 1bn and scale up, and we will procure 28bn 31bn responsibly 4.2 number of start-up businesses we will help get off the ground 100k 1 in 5 4.3 Increased amount of new lending provided to support uK manufacturing businesses per year 1bn 4bn cumulative 4.4 number of entrepreneurs supported through the lloyds Bank and 750 1,300 Bank of Scotland Social entrepreneurs programmes cumulative cumulative 4.5 % of supplier invoices paid within 30 days % payment within 60 days 95% 99% 100% 100% 2014 target 2017 target Well help businesses and 5.1 number of colleagues trained to mentor SMes & social entrepreneurs 5 individuals succeed with expert through the Business Finance Taskforce accredited scheme and the 1,000 1,700 lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland Social entrepreneurs programme cumulative cumulative mentoring and training 5.2 number of new lloyds Banking Group Apprenticeship positions created with 2,450 5,000 permanent employment cumulative cumulative 5.3 % of lloyds Banking Group Apprenticeships taken up by external candidates from the uKs most disadvantaged areas N A 30% 5.4 number of undergraduates from low income families supported by the 360 720 lloyds Scholars programme cumulative cumulative 5.5 % o f lloyds Scholars from low income families who have secured a job 3 within 6 months of graduating from university 90% 90% 2014 target 2020 target Well be the banking Group that 6.1 number of paid volunteer hours used by colleagues to support 800,000 2.3 million brings communities closer together 6 community projects cumulative cumulative to help them thrive 6.2 number of community organisations supported by our volunteers or funding 6,500 10,000 6.3 donated to the Banks Foundations to help tackle disadvantage 16.5m 100m cumulative 6.4 raised by colleagues for our Charity of the Year including Matched Giving to support those in need in our communities 1.7m 12m cumulative 2014 target 2020 target Well better represent the diversity 4 7 7.1 % of senior roles to be held by women 29% 40% of our customer base and our 7.2 We will consistently increase the engagement levels 66 communities at all levels of the Group 5 of ethnic minority colleagues in all roles Colleague Survey score 70 7.3 We will consistently increase the engagement levels 55 5 of disabled colleagues in all roles Colleague Survey score 70 7.4 We will consistently increase the engagement levels 60 5 of lGBT colleagues in all roles Colleague Survey score 70 1 3 Through Money for lifes Teach Others and Money Mentors programmes This % is based on the number of Scholars who are actively seeking employment N. B: All of these metrics are subject to 2 4 review in the Autumn pending the outcomes Includes Commitment: Know-how: Adjustments: Recruitment: Retention: Products and Services: Senior roles refers to top 8,000 individuals of Group Strategic Review Suppliers and Partners: Communication: Premises: Information and Communication Technology 5 uK High Performing norm target will change if High Performing norm changes For further details of the Plan, including how it was developed, please refer to our Responsible Business Report at www.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 30 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RelATIOnSHIPS AnD ReSPOnSIBIlITY CuSTOMeRS Putting customers at the heart of our business We focus on doing the best we can for all our Achievements in 2013 customers, in branches, on the phone and via digital Supported 120,000 SMe start-ups.
channels and living up to our values of putting A 6 per cent year-on-year net increase in loans to SMes compared with customers first, keeping it simple and making a an industry net reduction of 3 per cent.
Beat our commitment to lend 6.5 billion to 60,000 first-time buyers.
The best customer satisfaction ratings our high street brands have Aim ever achieved.
Our aim is to be the best bank for customers.
This means being the best bank for households, for businesses and for communities.
We will achieve Performance in 2013 this by focusing on uK customers and those connected to the uK: delivering customer expectations: simplifying processes, policies and systems: investing Customer complaints FCA banking Customer satisfaction % in growth initiatives: maintaining an appropriate risk appetite that protects complaints per 1,000 accounts net promoter score our customers: and ensuring the business has the strength of funding and capital to continue to make progress and to face challenges.
1.4 55 49 44 1.1 Priorities for 2014 1.0 1.0 Make sure all our colleague reward structures take customer service standards into account.
Help more customers get on the housing ladder and more customers climb up it, including supporting more than 80,000 first-time buyers.
Through our Simplification programme and We have developed a comprehensive continued focus on becoming the best bank customer experience programme measuring Help at least 100,000 SMe start-ups.
for customers, our FCA reportable banking customer service and their likelihood to complaints continued to fall.
This is measured through the Increase our new lending support to uK manufacturing businesses cross industry net promoter score metric where Excluding PPI by 1 billion.
we have seen continued progress.
Reduce customer banking complaints to 0.9 per 1,000 accounts.
Improve our systems, processes and products to keep it simple for customers.
Help 45,000 customers post-retirement through providing a continuing annuity income.
Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 30 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 Building our brands Supporting our customers In September 2013, we relaunched the lloyds Bank brand and launched We currently serve around 30 million individual and business customers.
TSB as a new challenger to the high street.
The creation of the two We want to provide them with the right products, setting the best service brands follows a ruling by the european Commission in 2009 requiring standards and achieving the best outcomes.
lloyds Banking Group to divest part of its business.
The flotation of TSB will further strengthen competition in our sector.
Supporting home buyers In 2013, we lent 9.7 billion to help more than 80,000 first-time buyers get Encouraging enterprise and manufacturing on the property ladder accounting for one in four of all first-time buyer For the second consecutive year, weve run the lloyds TSB enterprise mortgages in Britain this year.
Altogether we advanced 22.3 billion in new Awards, inviting entries from British businesses run by university students or mortgage lending to customers buying homes, an increase of 37 per cent recent graduates.
This year, 484 businesses entered and a total of 28 were on 2012. awarded cash prizes or mentoring support.
We will host the Awards again in 2014.
Supporting funding schemes We were the first British bank to participate in the Funding for lending In the third quarter of 2012 we launched our Manufacturing Commitment Scheme.
Since its launch in mid-2012 we have committed more than to provide 1 billion in new lending to SMe and mid-sized manufacturing 37 billion to help customers, including lending to businesses and businesses by September 2013.
We met our target three months ahead of mortgages for personal customers.
Through Halifax we provided one in schedule: by September 2013 we were 30 per cent above this target.
three of all mortgages completed via the uK governments newBuy scheme to support purchases of new build properties.
Supporting low carbon businesses As a potential source of funds and support for low carbon businesses we We also helped customers, particularly first-time buyers, who can only afford continue to support the uK governments target to meet 15 per cent of small deposits through lloyds innovative lend a Hand and local lend a the uKs energy demand from renewable sources by 2020.
As an active Hand mortgage schemes.
We accept deposits as low as 5 per cent if these participant in the Project Finance Market, at the end of 2013 we were are backed-up by a family member or friends savings or secured by a local involved in renewable energy projects across the uK with a combined Authority indemnity.
capacity of 3580MW, enough to power 3.5 million homes.
We are a leading supporter of the governments Help to Buy scheme.
lloyds Banking Group accounted for approximately 60 per cent of new Battling the elements Help to Buy mortgage lending under both the equity loan and mortgage Throughout 2013, we went the extra mile to help insurance customers guarantee elements of the scheme.
affected by floods, high winds and in one instance, a tornado.
The Home Insurance team deployed rapid response units to the worst affected areas, Supporting Britains businesses so that customer claims could be assessed quickly and funds released We serve hundreds of thousands of business customers.
SMes and to complete vital repairs.
Following the major storm that hit Britain in Mid-market businesses are the life-blood of the British economy so we focus October 2013 colleagues successfully handled more than 1,700 claims in our attention on their needs, and we also serve many larger businesses a single day, 10 times higher than normal business levels.
As of December and organisations.
2013, we had helped over 215,000 customers by resolving their claim, including 38,000 escape of water claims, 35,000 storm claims, 25,000 theft Supporting SMEs claims and 3,500 fire claims.
This year weve increased lending to SMes by 6 per cent compared with 2012 despite an industry-wide reduction in funding of 3 per cent.
Weve Including all our customers greatly simplified the lending process and reduced the time it takes SMes Being the best bank for customers means offering simple, relevant products to secure funds.
This year we approved eight out of 10 business loan and to people at all levels of society.
not just those enjoying relative prosperity, overdraft requests, comparable with pre-2008 levels.
We have committed to but also those facing financial difficulties, coping with disabilities, striving to deliver 1.6 billion of new net lending to SMes in 2014.
We are a signatory buy their first home or find their first job.
to the lending Code: a voluntary code covering dealings with consumers, micro-enterprises and charities with an income of less than 1 million.
Our Financial Inclusion Steering Group To help us become more integrated in the way we serve customers at risk Making a difference together of financial exclusion, early in 2013 we set up a Financial Inclusion Steering In addition to the Funding for lending Scheme, we participate in several other Group chaired by Sara Weller, non-executive Director.
The Group brings joint schemes designed to help businesses access finance.
These include the together colleagues from all areas of the business to provide a single point enterprise Finance Guarantee Scheme eFG, through which we have offered of focus for financial inclusion.
almost 6,000 loans to customers, worth a total of 480 million and 25 per cent of all eFG loans to date.
We are providing 100 million to SMes through the Providing basic bank accounts and support to SMEs Regional Growth Fund and made significant investments in the Business This year, we provided over 280,000 new basic bank accounts and helped Growth Fund, Scottish Investment Bank and Big Society Capital.
over 110,000 customers upgrade from basic to more mainstream accounts.
As of December 2013 we had over 22,000 active small business customers in Exceeding our SME commitments the most deprived areas of the uK.
We increased the loan facilities available We launched our SMe charter in 2010, pledging to support 300,000 new to SMes in these prioritised areas from 524 million in 2012 to 633 million SMes over three years to the end of 2012.
We beat this target, helping in 2013.
350,000 SMes and pledged to help a further 100,000 new businesses start up in 2013.
We again beat our target, by helping 120,000 new businesses.
We also met our pledge to respond to 90 per cent of lending appeals within 15 working days rather than the industry standard of 30 working days.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 32 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RelATIOnSHIPS AnD ReSPOnSIBIlITY CuSTOMeRS Helping ex-offenders make a fresh start Improving the quality of our products and services In partnership with the national Offender Management Service, we offer We need to keep pace with customers changing needs by providing more basic banking facilities to recent offenders and prisoners preparing simple, tailored products and services that make a positive difference.
for release, than any of our competitors.
Basic accounts allow people in this Improving customer satisfaction is also the best way to reduce customer situation to receive income payments, pay bills and purchase goods as they complaints and build trust in our brands.
Simplifying our products and services Helping customers in financial difficulty We improved the way we use mobile interfaces and voice recognition Many of our customers need our help to get their finances back on track.
This technologies to make it easier for customers to reach us quickly and navigate year we issued 60,000 credit cards to help customers who have very limited to the right choices.
We now have more than 10 million customers using our credit history gain access to credit facilities.
Our Credit Operations team digital services, including four million mobile banking users.
tailors solutions for customers to get their finances back on track.
In 2013 they We also simplified our telephone banking services, making it easier for colleagues had 5.5 million customer conversations.
to access customers information and action their requests quickly.
As a result, Helping customers with disabilities we reduced call times by up to three minutes.
We also improved our service To be the best bank for customers, our products and services need to be for general insurance customers by assigning a dedicated advisor to every claim.
accessible to everyone, including people with physical disabilities.
We set To date, 130,000 claims have been handled this way, delivering a 40 per cent up a Disability Services Support Team in 2012 and became the first bank reduction in follow up calls and on average, 30 per cent faster settlement times.
to introduce a British Sign language video service for customers with Tracking our brand and reputation hearing impairments.
In 2013 we were shortlisted in the Organisational We use the net Promoter Score to track the reputation of our brands and Achievement Category of the Signature Awards, which highlight excellence overall customer satisfaction.
nPS is a standard business metric based on in communication with deaf people.
the likelihood of customers recommending a brand to others.
In 2013 This year, we introduced talking ATMs to help customers who are visually our high street brands achieved an aggregate score of 55 per cent, an or hearing impaired and we plan to roll these out to all our branches in improvement from 49 per cent in 2012. time.
Weve also made the lloyds Bank customer website more accessible to customers with a range of disabilities, including visual impairments Customer complaints data for 2013 and dyslexia.
The Halifax and Bank of Scotland websites will be updated Our customer complaints fell year-on-year, with a 36 per cent reduction in in 2014. complaints including PPI.
We now receive fewer banking complaints per 1,000 accounts than any other major high street bank in Britain.
In 2013, the Leading our industry to help customers with Dementia Group received 1 complaint per 1,000 accounts Halifax: 0.8, lloyds TSB: 1.1, This year we worked with the Alzheimers Society to create their Bank of Scotland 0.9.
This is a reduction of 33 per cent compared with the Dementia-Friendly Financial Services Charter.
We co-launched the Charter second half of 2011, when the Group figure was 1.5 complaints per with the Alzheimers Society on 30 October 2013.
We led a steering group 1,000 accounts.
We aim to reduce this further to 0.9 in 2014. of 24 other financial services organisations, who have committed to improve dementia awareness amongst their employees.
We have already started to implement some of its recommendations, including the creation of Dementia-Friends, in branches.
Supporting our customers In September 2013 we launched the revitalised lloyds Bank across almost 1,300 high street branches, marking another milestone in its 250 year history.
The launch of the brand reinforces our commitment to better serve our customers and deliver a stronger more competitive banking industry in the uK.
Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 32 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 Welcome back to local banking In September 2013 we launched TSB across 631 branches, bringing a credible, new competitor to the market.
The flotation of TSB will further strengthen competition.
At its launch TSB had around 4.5 million customers and will have 8,000 employees, including 4,500 branch staff.
Dealing with complaints more effectively Protecting our customers best interests We have worked hard to improve the way we deal with customer Our customers need to be sure that their money and personal details are complaints.
We invested in our successful phone-a-friend service, providing safe with us.
As one of Britains largest financial businesses we face hundreds, 40,000 branch and call centre colleagues with instant access to a dedicated sometimes thousands, of cyber-threats every day.
This is why we consistently specialist advice team.
We now resolve more than 90 per cent of all invest in technology and colleague training to maximise security.
complaints at first contact and faster than ever before thanks to our 24 hour, seven days a week complaints handling service.
Combating cyber-crime Since 2011, we have invested 248 million to improve the security of our IT Getting to the root of the problem infrastructure, including 138 million this year.
Our Group-wide hub Prevent This year our Root Cause Analysis team has carried out detailed analysis and Protect, provides a wealth of information to help colleagues stay aware of the reasons why customers complain.
The team contributed to a of the threats and take appropriate action.
Most of the work we do is invisible monthly reduction of around 1,555 complaints by talking with customers to customers, but it has contributed to a downward trend in levels of fraud and colleagues, then making the appropriate changes in our processes across our online retail channels in 2013. and responses.
Combating financial crime and money laundering Shifting from avoidance to achievement We can identify unusual activity related to customers accounts and have We have made a big shift in the way we define, measure, incentivise and processes in place to check customers identities.
We have invested in reward colleagues in relation to customer satisfaction this year moving advanced transaction monitoring technologies as part of our Group-wide from a focus on making the sale towards a focus on improving service and Global Anti-Money laundering Programme and have refreshed our achieving positive outcomes for customers.
We believe customer complaints Group-wide Fraud Prevention training module, rolling out an interactive will reduce as a consequence of this shift.
Dealing with legacy issues This year our whistleblowing service, a confidential service for colleagues We still have some legacy issues, including the mis-selling of PPI, to deal with worried about possible wrong-doing that may affect colleagues, customers and we fully acknowledge that these are still a cause for concern amongst or the Group, recorded 443 new contacts, compared with 532 last year.
We were the first bank to offer redress to 53 per cent of these were resolved appropriately and advice was given customers who were mis-sold PPI products and were continuing to deal with to the remaining 47 per cent to raise concerns through other, more every outstanding complaint to ensure a fair outcome.
Just as importantly, appropriate, routes.
we are implementing processes and procedures to prevent such events happening again.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 34 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RelATIOnSHIPS AnD ReSPOnSIBIlITY COlleAGueS Building a company thats great to work for We want colleagues to live our values, to work Achievements in 2013 in line with our Codes of Responsibility and to launched the Agile Future Forum, highlighting the benefits of agile working for businesses in the 21st century.
feel pride in their contributions to a successful customer-focused business.
Offered 1,000 apprenticeship places to young people, building on the success of our 2012 national Apprenticeship pilot.
Aim 76 per cent of all executive vacancies filled from within Our ambition is to be a bank where our colleagues give their best and want to lloyds Banking Group.
Our people are at the heart of our business and are critical More than 51,000 customer facing colleagues have now attained the in ensuring that we deliver our strategy to be the best bank for customers and Foundation Standard for Professional Bankers the highest of any through this, help Britain prosper.
each colleague has access to the training bank in Britain.
and development opportunities that enable them to do their role well.
This grows talent internally, to drive our business in a sustainable way.
Increased the percentage of women on our Board to 27 per cent.
At lloyds Banking Group, we want the diversity of our employee base to Invested in a new technology platform and content to enhance reflect the population of the uK and who our customers are: the better we colleague development opportunities.
reflect our marketplace, the better we can serve it.
We also encourage our colleagues to work closely with the community to build lasting relationships Performance in 2013 that are the foundation for our business in the future.
Staff engagement score % Line management index % Priorities for 2014 UK industry average 76 81 Build colleagues pride and trust in our Group.
78 77 68 64 Help colleagues fulfil their potential through relevant learning 64 62 60 61 and development.
48 Do even more to build a diverse workforce and inclusive workplace.
Put customers at the heart of our performance and reward structures.
nurture the next generation of leaders, strengthening our succession EEI 2012 EEI 2013 PEI 2012 PEI 2013 2011 2012 2013 and talent pipeline.
The Employee Engagement Index EEI The Line Management Index LMI shows measures the individual motiviation of how our colleagues feel about their individual colleagues whilst the Performance Excellence Line Manager.
Index PEI measures how strongly colleagues believe the Group is committed to improving customer service.
Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 34 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 Support for colleagues with disabilities Engaging colleagues with our values We are committed to being a disability confident organisation, which We ask colleagues to work in line with our three values: putting customers provides equal opportunities for people with disabilities.
We plan to launch first, keeping it simple and making a difference together.
a work experience programme for disabled people in 2014, following a Embedding our values successful pilot in 2013.
In 2013, around 97 per cent of colleagues completed training on our Codes of Responsibility and we completed the first phase of a Group-wide Support for colleagues from ethnic minority backgrounds cultural assessment.
This year we ran 10 Career Development Programme courses to support the career development of more than 100 talented colleagues from ethnic Colleague survey minority backgrounds.
This year, 28 per cent of our new graduates joining us This year we received the highest response rate to date, with 76 per cent of were from ethnic minorities.
colleagues participating, compared to 74 per cent in 2012.
Our Performance excellence Index score was 76 per cent up on 2012 by Flexible working 8 percentage points, 12 percentage points above the uK average We are committed to building a culture that encourages innovative agile Our employee engagement Index score was 64 per cent up on 2012 by working policies and practices.
16 percentage points, 3 percentage points above the uK average Parents and carers Our line Management Index score was 81 per cent up on 2012 by We provide one of the best packages for working parents and carers in the 4 percentage points, 14 percentage points above the uK average uK.
This includes guidance for colleagues and line managers, e-learning In addition to these improved scores, the survey shows that participating modules for new parents and a parents forum.
colleagues confidence and trust in our organisation and leadership improved by 22 percentage points compared with 2012, reaching Empowering colleagues to do their very best 70 per cent which is 8 percentage points above the uK average.
All colleagues can identify the training they need and access it through a new, more effective learning management system called Discover learning, Mobilising colleagues to build a diverse, which we launched in July 2013. inclusive business We want to build a colleague team that truly reflects 21st century Britain, Developing future leaders in which differences are welcomed and everyone is treated fairly and with In line with our commitment to bring in talented people, weve expanded the dignity and respect.
scope and scale of our Graduate Programme.
We also doubled the number of colleagues participating in our Future executives Programme.
Diversity and inclusion Our 2013 Colleague engagement Survey results showed significantly higher Apprenticeships engagement scores for female colleagues and improvements in colleagues Building on the success of our 2012 national Apprenticeship pilot, we perceptions of the Groups commitment to diversity and inclusion.
set a target to offer 1,000 apprenticeship places by the end of 2013 and 2013 2012 achieved it by november.
Gender Number % % Male 8 73 73 Board Supporting colleagues wellbeing, health Female 3 27 27 Male 5,911 73 74 and safety Senior managers Female 2,217 27 26 Colleagues who are healthy, happy and safe at work, with access to support Male 38,860 41 41 Colleagues when facing financial, physical or emotional issues, generally perform their best.
Female 55,150 59 59 Wellbeing 2013 2012 1 We work closely with BuPA, Health Management limited, Validium and other Disability % of colleagues who disclose they have a disability 1.5% 1.5% partners to promote and enable colleagues general health and wellbeing.
For 1 Ethnic background example, Validium runs our successful employee Assistance Programme.
% of colleagues from an ethnic minority 6% 7% ethnic minority managers 6% 6% Health and safety in the workplace ethnic minority senior managers 3% 3% We have policies and standards in place to help colleagues work safely 1 Sexual orientation and responsibly at all times.
Health and safety training is mandatory for all % of colleagues who disclose they are lesbian, gay, colleagues and we complete regular audits, inspections and maintenance bisexual or transgender 1% 1% programmes to help improve safety standards.
1 Data source: HR system HRIS.
Apart from gender data, all diversity information is based on colleagues voluntary self-declaration.
As a result this data is not fully representative: Reported accidents in 2013 our systems do not record any diversity data for the proportion of colleagues who have not We worked hard to improve safety across the Group and for the third year declared this information.
running achieved a reduction in the number of accidents.
In 2013, accidents Our diversity networks reduced by 10 per cent compared with 2012.
We have four colleague diversity networks: Breakthrough network for women: Access disability network: GeM Group ethnic minority network: and Rainbow Rewarding and incentivising colleagues lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender network.
Our sexual orientation We try to achieve the right balance on remuneration: recognising the need programme was rated in the top 20 of the Stonewall Workplace equality index for to manage the Groups finances prudently, but also to incentivise colleagues.
the past two years with our Rainbow network achieving Star Performer status.
We continue to evolve our reward structures, making them fairer for all Commitment to gender equality colleagues and linked more directly with performance for customers.
We want to improve gender diversity amongst our senior managers and achieved 27 per cent female representation at board level in 2013.
We are Remuneration focused on building a sustainable pipeline of talented women and were We offer competitive salaries and aim to award competitive variable pay included in The Times Top 50 employers for women for the second year bonus and incentives relevant to particular roles.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 36 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RelATIOnSHIPS AnD ReSPOnSIBIlITY COMMunITIeS Investing in communities to help them prosper and grow As Britains largest retail and commercial bank, serving Achievements in 2013 around 30 million customers, our brands are familiar Invested 8 million in our Money for life programme since its launch to help young people manage their finances better.
on the high street and in almost every community.
By supporting these communities, we can benefit many Helped 154 social entrepreneurs through our Social entrepreneurs programme.
local people, build trust in our brands, and sow the seeds for future growth.
Raised 2.5 million for our charity of the year, Alzheimers Society and Alzheimer Scotland, beating our year end target.
Aim 34,000 colleagues volunteered help local good causes through Our brands are familiar on the high street in almost every local community.
our Day to Make a Difference programme.
Through our community-focused programmes and investment activity we Donated 29 million to the lloyds Bank, lloyds TSB and can benefit many local people and build trust in our brands.
last year the Group invested 85 million in a range of flagship programmes and initiatives.
Despite the challenging economic environment the Performance in 2013 Group committed to keep its investment at this level for the period of its strategic plan.
Colleague volunteers Total community m investment Priorities for 2014 34,000 85 85 85 32,000 Increase participation in, and impact of, our community programmes.
Maintain momentum in colleague involvement in community volunteering with more emphasis on skills-based support.
16,000 Meet our charitable fundraising targets and support for our Foundations.
2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Support colleagues in their volunteering activity as we strive towards In 2013, the Group supported over 34,000 Our Community Investment total includes 2.3 million volunteering hours by 2020. colleagues in volunteering for charities and support for financial inclusion, community community groups.
The Foundations also initiatives, leveraged colleague fundraising, provided Matched Giving to some of these sponsorship and support for grass roots charities.
organisations for colleagues time spent volunteering outside of working hours.
Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 36 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 Developing our community investment programmes Supporting local communities Our community programmes are focused on the ways in which we believe We invest in a number of local charities and community groups that work to we can make the greatest difference to local people and local communities.
We also use the Groups resources and All of our programmes involve colleagues, offering them the opportunity to colleagues skills and expertise to help communities prosper.
use their skills and expertise for the benefit of the local communities in which they work and live.
Our Foundations In 2013 we donated more than 29 million to the lloyds Bank, lloyds TSB Our community programmes cover four key areas: and Bank of Scotland Foundations, enabling them to make grants to local, regional and national charities across the uK.
Investing in education, employability and enterprise Supporting local communities Community Fund We support local organisations through our Community Fund.
In 2013, Fundraising and community events colleagues nominated over 4,600 good causes for the Community Fund, Supporting colleagues to make a difference from which, they shortlisted 1,568 organisations in 392 communities across Britain.
Over 2.7 million votes were cast for local good causes online, by You can read about all of our community investment programmes in detail in SMS or in our lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland branches with grants of our 2013 Responsible Business Report at www.
com either 300 or 3,000 awarded to those that received the most votes.
More than 450,000 people across Britain will benefit as a consequence of the Investing in education, employability and enterprise Community Fund awards.
The ability to manage money well is essential in 21st century Britain, and Giving Extra Awards there are calls from many quarters to make financial education compulsory in This year we launched the Halifax Giving extra Awards, to recognise and schools.
unfortunately many young adults lack the skills required to manage reward people who give extra in their local communities.
We awarded their money effectively.
Were doing what we can to help address this issue.
vouchers, worth 250 to 5,000 to 67 winners.
They can donate these vouchers to the good cause of their choice.
Our Money for Life programme In 2009, we launched Money for life, our financial capability and personal money skills programme, aimed at improving the knowledge, confidence Fundraising and community events and skills of uK communities.
Designed for people and adults in further Colleagues support and raise funds for local organisations in many different education, and the work-based learning and community learning sectors, ways.
They participate in national and local community events.
They raise the programme enables and empowers participants to manage their money thousands of pounds for charities across Britain.
Weve invested 8 million in this award-winning programme since its launch.
Charity of the year Our Charity of the Year for 2013 14, chosen by colleagues, is Alzheimers Lloyds Scholars programme Society and Alzheimer Scotland.
In 2013 we raised 2.5 million to support the The lloyds Scholars programme offers students from lower income first uK dementia carers programme.
households a complete support package to help them meet the costs of a university education and improve their employment prospects.
Working in Great Scottish Run and Cardiff Half Marathon partnership with eight leading universities, we supplement financial support This year, colleagues participating in the 2013 Bank of Scotland Great with invaluable vocational support, provided by mentors from the business Scottish Run and lloyds Bank Cardiff Half Marathon raised over 44,000 for and through paid internships and development workshops.
Since 2011, our Charity of the Year.
More than 600 colleagues ran alongside thousands of weve supported 240 students.
Social Entrepreneurs programme Supporting colleagues to make a difference In 2012, we partnered with the School of entrepreneurs to launch our lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland Social entrepreneurs programmes.
Colleagues can volunteer their time and skills through our Day to Make a These programmes help social entrepreneurs build businesses that support Difference scheme.
During 2013 we saw a marked increase in skill-based enterprise, create new jobs and have a positive social impact on their local volunteering activities, with colleagues, including senior executives, involved communities.
We aim to help more than 1,300 social entrepreneurs start-up in activities that included employability skills training for young adults, literacy or scale-up over the next five years of the programme, providing them with and numeracy classes for school kids, mentoring for SMes and business grants of between 4,000 to 25,000 and the support of a business mentor.
This year 154 social entrepreneurs received grants through the programme.
Over the past three years, colleagues have volunteered over 650,000 hours We will invest 5.9 million in the programme over five years, leveraged with in their local communities and consequently were on track to achieve our 7 million of additional funding from the Big lottery.
target of 1 million volunteering hours by 2015.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 38 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RelATIOnSHIPS AnD ReSPOnSIBIlITY OTHeR STAKeHOlDeRS Working responsibly with our stakeholders We cant succeed without the trust and support of Government and regulators We engage regularly with the uK government, the european Commission, our stakeholders who include central and local the european Parliament and other bodies to assist in the formulation of government, suppliers, investors and non-governmental public policy around consumer issues, financial inclusion, financial education organisations nGOs.
and finance for the green economy.
We also produce economic and social research that champions consumer interests, for example the Halifax House Aim Price Index, which is frequently used to inform government policy.
The Group is committed to working responsibly and acting professionally As a responsible business we understand the importance of explaining with all our external stakeholders.
Our approach to stakeholders is set out in our approach to paying and managing tax as clearly and transparently as our Code of Business Responsibility.
The Groups tax strategy and tax policy has been approved by the Group Board.
We are consistently one of the uKs largest tax payers and in 2013 we paid a total of 1.7 billion in uK tax.
We also collected a further Achievements in 2013 2.2 billion for the government for example VAT and PAYe.
Shared our views on culture, ethics and standards with the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards.
Suppliers liaised with the Treasury Select Committee prior to the launch of TSB.
We want to source goods and services in ways that are responsible, sustainable and constitute best value for our customers and shareholders.
We Discussed the Current Account Switching Service and ring-fencing can also use our influence to help suppliers to match the same high standards.
with HM Treasury and regulators.
Our Group Sourcing team has committed to make responsible business Shared our views about the future of care funding in Britain with the practices integral to our sourcing activities by the end of 2014.
weve made significant progress towards achieving this goal, developing launched a review of our approach to responsible business in our a coherent plan that covers all aspects of our sourcing activities.
which evolves and expands our current approach, was approved by the Responsible Business Committee in June 2013.
It addresses sourcing Worked closely with our unions as we implement our ongoing change activities across the Group, using our existing Group Sourcing Policy as a programmes.
starting point, along with supplier standards through the creation of a new Supplier Code of Conduct.
This new Code will set minimum standards Priorities for 2014 across six key dimensions: human rights, ethical standards, environmental standards, governance, health and safety, and community.
Roll out our new Supplier Code of Conduct and auditing suppliers against it.
Investors and rating agencies Pay 95 per cent of our suppliers within 30 days.
We regularly interact with our equity and debt investors through Presentations for shareholders to explain the Helping Britain presentations, one-to-one and general meetings and undertook more than Prosper Plan.
We also manage relationships with the main rating agencies: Standard & Poors, Fitch & Moodys.
Continue to work with the uK government in its efforts to improve Investor trust and their feedback are important considerations when standards in the banking sector.
formulating our ongoing strategy and a review of our investor interaction Continue to engage with equity and debt investors to ensure they are was undertaken in 2013 which provided positive feedback on our approach.
well briefed on our strategic and financial performance.
Given the increasing focus within the business on operating sustainably and responsibly, we plan to deliver a series of investor presentations on our Helping Britain Prosper Plan in 2014.
Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 38 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 RelATIOnSHIPS AnD ReSPOnSIBIlITY enVIROnMenT Working continually to reduce environmental impact Our ability to help Britain prosper in a sustainable way is Managing our carbon emissions inextricably linked to wider environmental issues.
Despite our continuing efforts throughout 2013 to move closer to our environmental Action Plan eAP targets, our overall carbon emissions have Man-made climate change and global trends such as increased slightly compared to 2012 by 1.2% on a like-for-like basis.
This resource scarcity, extreme weather and rising energy has mainly been down to increased gas use during cold winter conditions, and commodity prices have an impact on our increased electricity use as a result of the hot conditions in summer 2013 stakeholders and our own operations.
The underlying trend is that we continue to improve our efficiency and we remain committed to delivering our eAP.
Aim Please refer to page 75 in the Directors report for a comprehensive overview of our emissions reporting.
We aim to manage our own environmental impacts and support the drive towards a low carbon, more resource efficient economy.
Using scarce resources more efficiently During 2013, weve made progress against our eAP targets.
Achievements in 2013 Progress to Achieved a reduction in energy use of 12.7 per cent against our 2009 2020 target 2020 target 2012 2013 baseline, resulting in cost avoidance of 8.7 million in 2013 and cost energy 30% reduction in avoidance of 22 million since 2010. energy consumption 42% 657Gwh 678Gwh Achieved a reduction in water consumption of 18 per cent against our Paper 20% reduction in paper consumption 75% 26,565 tonnes 27,220 tonnes 2009 baseline.
Business 20% reduction in our Diverted 95 per cent of our operational waste from landfill beating travel business travel 95% 315m kms 334m kms our 2020 target of 92 per cent.
Waste 92% of waste engaged colleagues in our environmental Action Plan through our diverted from landfill 100% 94% 95% Sustainability network.
Water 20% reduction in 3 3 1,059,999 m water consumption 90% 1,075,016 m Worked for positive environmental change through many different 2 Buildings 20% of m floor area external bodies, including the Corporate leaders Group for environmentally Climate Change, Climatewise, AIM4C and the Banking & environment accredited 23% 1.5% 4.7% Initiative BeI.
Target excludes IT data centres and the use of oil as a fuel.
Priorities for 2014 Supporting the green economy Invest 7 million in specific energy efficiency projects.
We work together with government and others stakeholders to understand how we can help businesses that provide low carbon products and services Continue to engage SMes to help them understand how to become or green technologies along with mainstream businesses who wish to do more sustainable and realise the benefits to their businesses.
more in this emerging sector.
Complete the environmental accreditation of even more of our We work with SMes to help them to understand and maximise the property estate.
commercial benefits of sustainable business practices.
early in 2013, lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland both launched versions of our new online tool, ReDuCe a free resource that enables SMes to create and implement their own sustainable business plan.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
