The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 128 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Risk governance The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF provides a robust and consistent approach to risk management across the Group in order to drive its risk profile in line with risk appetite.
It articulates individual and collective accountabilities for risk management, risk oversight and risk assurance: supports the discharge of responsibilities to customers, shareholders and regulators: and establishes a common risk language which assigns the risks to which the Group is exposed into categories which are used consistently to support risk aggregation and reporting.
The risk governance structure below is integral to implementing the RMF across the Group and by ensuring risk is appropriately represented on key committees ensures that risk management is discussed in these meetings.
This structure outlines the flow and escalation of risk information and reporting from business areas and Risk Division to the Group executive Committee GeC and Board.
Conversely, strategic direction and guidance is cascaded down from the Board and GeC.
Table 1.2: Risk governance structures Risk Division Reporting Reporting Audit Board Risk Committees and Governance Board Committee Committee Group Chief Executive executive Credit Approval Committee GEC members Committees Aggregation, Independent Commercial Credit Risk Group Asset escalation challenge Banking Credit Group executive Group Financial Governance and liability Risk Committees Committee Risk Committee Committee GeC GFRC GAlCO Retail & Wealth Credit Risk Committees Group Group Product executive Rectification Governance Compensation Committee Committee Committee Market & Group Market Risk liquidity Risk Independent Aggregation, Committee Governance Group Risk challenge escalation Committee GRC Group Operational Operational Risk Risk Committee Governance Primary escalation Group Audit Business areas Enterprise Risk Committees Financial Group Financial Crime Risk Crime Committee Governance Retail Risk Consumer Finance SWIP Risk Committee Risk Committee Committee Conduct, Group Compliance Compliance and and Conduct Independent Independent People Risk Committee Commercial challenge challenge Governance Asset Finance Risk Digital Risk Banking Risk Committee Committee Committee Financial Risk Governance Insurance Risk Finance Risk Group Operations Committee Committee Risk Committee Group Model Model Risk Governance Governance Committee Group Functions International Pensions executive Business Risk Committee Committees Committees Insurance Risk through Insurance and Group Pensions Governance Reporting Reporting Insurance is a separate regulated entity with its own Board and governance structure First line of defence Independent challenge of both First and Second lines of defence Risk Division executive Committee The components of the RMF can be found in the Risk Overview on page 41.
Third line of defence Risk Assurance Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Second line of defence Risk Oversight Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 130 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Board, Executive and Risk Committees The Groups risk governance structure see table 1.2 strengthens risk evaluation and management, while also positioning the Group to manage the changing regulatory environment in an efficient and effective manner.
Assisted by the Board Risk and Audit Committees, the Board approves the Groups overall governance, risk and control frameworks and risk appetite.
Refer to the Corporate Governance section on pages 78to 99, for further information on Board committees.
The Insurance Division, as a separate regulated entity, has its own Board and governance structure.
The Insurance Board, assisted by a Risk Oversight Committee and Audit Committee, approves the governance, risk and control frameworks for insurance and insurance risk appetite, ensuring it aligns with the Groups framework and risk appetite.
Table 1.3: Executive and Risk Committees Committees Risk focus Group Executive Committee Group executive Committee GeC Supports the Group Chief executive in ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and the clear articulation of the Groups risk policies, while also reviewing the Groups aggregate risk exposures and concentrations of risk.
The Group Executive is supported by: Group Risk Committee Reviews and recommends the Groups risk appetite and governance, risk and control frameworks, material Group policies and the allocation of risk appetite.
The committee also regularly reviews risk exposures and risk reward returns and approves material risk models.
Group Asset and liability Responsible for the strategic management of the Groups assets and liabilities and the profit and loss Committee implications of balance sheet management actions.
It is also responsible for the risk management framework for market risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and earnings volatility.
executive Compensation Provides governance and oversight for Group-wide remuneration matters and policies.
Committee Group Executive Committee Members Committees Group Product Governance Provides strategic and senior oversight over design, launch and management of products including new Committee product approval, annual product reviews and management of risk in the back book.
Group Financial Risk Committee Responsible for reviewing, challenging and recommending to GeC, the Group Individual liquidity Adequacy Assessment and Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process submissions, the Group Recovery Plan, and the annual stress testing of the Groups operating plan based on internal and PRA recommended scenarios, annual european Banking Authority stress tests, and other Group-wide macroeconomic stress tests.
Group Rectification Committee ensures appropriate control and oversight of material events which have a customer impact.
The Group Risk Committee is supplemented by the following committees to ensure effective oversight of risk management: Credit Risk Committees Responsible for the development and effectiveness of the relevant credit risk management framework, clear description of the Groups credit risk appetite, setting of credit policy, and compliance with regulatory credit requirements.
Group Market Risk Committee Monitors and reviews the Groups aggregate market risk exposures and concentrations and provides a proactive and robust challenge around business activities giving rise to market risks.
Group Operational Risk Committee Responsible for identifying significant current and emerging operational risks or accumulation of risks and control deficiencies across the Group and reviewing associated oversight plans to ensure pre-emptive risk management action.
The committee also seeks to ensure that adequate business area engagement occurs to develop, implement and maintain the Groups operational risk management framework.
Group Compliance and Responsible for monitoring and challenging the Groups compliance and conduct risk management Conduct Risk Committee framework, aggregated compliance and conduct risk profile, and its alignment with agreed risk appetite.
Group Financial Crime Committee Reviews and challenges the management of financial crime risk including the overall strategy and performance and engagement with financial crime authorities.
The committee is accountable for ensuring that, at Group level, financial crime risks are effectively identified and managed within risk appetite and that strategies for financial crime prevention are effectively co-ordinated and implemented across the Group.
Group Model Governance Responsible for setting the framework and standards for model governance across the Group, including Committee establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority and principles underlying the Groups risk modelling framework, specifically regarding consistency of approach across business units and risk types.
It approves risk models other than material models which are approved by the Group Risk Committee.
This also meets PRA requirements regarding the governance and approval for Internal Ratings Based models.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 130 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 How risk is managed in Lloyds Banking Group Risk management in the business line management is directly accountable for identifying and managing any risks inherent or consequential in their individual businesses.
A key objective is to ensure that business decisions strike an appropriate balance between risk and reward, consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
All business areas complete a control effectiveness review annually, reviewing the effectiveness of their internal controls and putting in place a programme of enhancements where appropriate.
executives from each business area and each Group executive Committee member challenge and certify the accuracy of their assessment.
This approach provides the Group with an effective mechanism for developing and embedding risk policies and risk management strategies which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses.
It also seeks to facilitate effective communication on these matters across the Group.
Risk Management Framework RMF The RMF see Risk Overview, page 41 is structured around nine components which meet and align with the industry-accepted internal control framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
Role of the Board and senior management key responsibilities of the Board and senior management include: setting risk appetite and approval of the RMF: approval of Group-wide risk principles and policies: the cascade of delegated authority e. g. to Board sub-committees and the Group Chief executive : effective oversight over risk management consistent with the risk appetite.
Risk appetite the business plan is aligned to the Risk Appetite Statement so that the Groups short and medium-term business objectives match its risk tolerances which are translated into relevant risk limits for business units.
Governance frameworks the Board-approved frameworks set out key principles for the overall management of risk in the organisation, aligned with Group strategy and risk appetite: based on a current and comprehensive risk profile that identifies all material risks to the organisation.
These Governance Frameworks are underpinned by a hierarchy of policies that is coherent, consistent, and accessible.
Three Lines of Defence model the RMF is implemented through a Three lines of Defence model which defines clear responsibilities and accountabilities and ensures effective independent assurance activities take place covering key decisions.
Business lines first line have primary responsibility for risk decisions, measuring, monitoring and controlling risks within their areas of accountability.
They are required to establish effective governance, and control frameworks for their business compliant with Group Policy requirements, to maintain appropriate risk management skills, mechanisms and toolkits, and to act within Group Risk Appetite parameters set and approved by the Board.
Risk Division second line is a centralised function providing oversight and independent challenge to the effectiveness of risk decisions taken by business management, providing advice and guidance reviewing, challenging and reporting on the risk profile of the Group and ensuring that mitigating actions are appropriate.
Group Audit third line provides independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve the organisations operations.
It helps the Group accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
Mandate of the Risk Division the objective of Risk Division is to provide both expert advice and review and challenge to the business.
It also has a key role in promoting the implementation of a strategic approach to risk management reflecting the risk appetite and RMF agreed by the Board that encompasses: embedded and effective risk management processes: transparent and focused risk monitoring and reporting: provision of expert and high quality advice and guidance to the Board, executives and Management on strategic issues and horizon scanning for pending regulatory changes: and provision of a constructive working environment in which Risk Division is trusted and respected, and promotes a constructive dialogue with the first line through advice, development of common methodologies, understanding, education, training, and development of new tools.
Risk Division, headed by the Chief Risk Officer, consists of nine risk directors and their specialist teams.
These teams provide oversight and independent challenge to business management and support senior management and the Board with independent reporting on risks and opportunities.
Risk directors, responsible for each risk type, meet on a regular basis under the chairmanship of the Chief Risk Officer to review and challenge the risk profile of the Group and to ensure that mitigating actions are appropriate.
The Chief Risk Officer is accountable for developing and leading an industry-wide recognised Risk function that adds value to the Group by: providing a regular comprehensive view of the Groups risk profile, key risks both current and emerging, and management actions: with input from the business areas and Risk Division proposing Group Risk Appetite to the Board for approval, and oversighting performance of the Group against Risk Appetite: developing an effective RMF meeting regulatory requirements for approval by the Board, and oversighting execution and compliance: and challenging management on emerging risks and providing expert risk and control advice to help management maintain an effective risk and control framework.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 132 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Risk directors provide independent advice, oversight and challenge to the business: design, develop and maintain policies, specific risk frameworks and guidance to ensure alignment with business imperatives and regulatory requirements: establish and maintain appropriate governance structures, culture, oversight and monitoring arrangements which ensure robust and efficient compliance with relevant risk-type risk appetites and policies: lead regulatory liaison on behalf of the Group including horizon scanning and regulatory development for their risk type: and set risk appetite and oversight of the associated risk profile across the Group.
Risk identification, measurement and control the process for risk identification, measurement and control is integrated into the overall framework for risk governance.
Risk identification processes are forward-looking to ensure emerging risks are identified.
Risks are captured in comprehensive risk logs registers, and measured using robust and consistent quantification methodologies.
The measurement of risks includes the application of sound stress testing and scenario analysis, and considers whether relevant controls are in place before risks are incurred.
Risk monitoring, aggregation and reporting identified risks are logged and reported on a monthly basis or as frequently as necessary to the appropriate committee.
The extent of the risk is compared to the overall risk appetite as well as specific limits or triggers.
When thresholds are breached, committee minutes are clear on the actions and timeframes required to resolve the breach and bring risk within given tolerances.
There is a clear process for escalation of risks.
Culture supporting the formal frameworks of the RMF is the underlying culture, or shared behaviours and values, which sets out in clear terms what constitutes good behaviour and good practice.
In order to effectively manage risk across the organisation, the functions encompassed within the Three lines of Defence have a clear understanding of risk appetite, business strategy and an understanding of and commitment to the role they play in delivering it.
A number of levers are used to reinforce the risk culture, including tone from the top, governance and role definition, capability development, performance management and reward.
Resources and capabilities appropriate mechanisms are in place to avoid over-reliance on key personnel or system technical expertise within the Group.
Adequate resources are in place to deal with customers both under normal working conditions and in times of stress, and monitoring procedures are in place to ensure that the level of available resource can be increased if required.
Colleagues undertake appropriate training to ensure they have the skills and knowledge necessary to enable them to deliver fair outcomes for customers, being mindful of the Groups Conduct Strategy, Customer Treatment Policy Standards and Financial Conduct Authority requirements.
There is ongoing investment in risk systems and models alongside the Groups investment in customer and product systems and processes.
This drives improvements in risk data quality, aggregation and reporting leading to effective and efficient risk decisions.
Independent challenge Group Audit provides independent assurance to the Audit Committee and the Board that risks within the Group are recognised, monitored and managed within acceptable parameters.
Group Audit is fully independent of the Risk Division, and seeks to ensure objective challenge to the effectiveness of the risk governance framework.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 132 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Full analysis of risk drivers The Groups risk framework covers all types of risk which affect the Group and could impact on the achievement of its strategic objectives.
A detailed description of each category is provided below.
Primary risk drivers Credit Conduct Market Operational Funding and Capital Regulatory Insurance People Financial Governance 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 risk risk risk risk liquidity risk risk risk risk risk reporting risk risk Page 133 Page 163 Page 164 Page 169 Page 171 Page 178 Page 192 Page 193 Page 194 Page 195 Page 196 1 The Group considers these to be principal risks.
See Risk Overview pages 40 to 43 for further details.
Secondary risk drivers Concentration Customer equity Business Funding Capital Prudential Mortality Resourcing Financial and Governance risk risk risk process risk sufficiency risk prudential risk longevity Performance regulatory Counterparty Product Foreign Change liquidity Capital and reward Compliance Morbidity reporting and customer risk exchange risk efficiency risk risk Client money Culture and Persistency risk risk Tax reporting Product fiduciary engagement Competition and Property Collateral distribution Interest obligations risk Talent and compliance management advice rate risk expenses Conduct succession Disclosure Country Credit spread processes unemployment learning transfer risk risk Accounting Financial crime Wellbeing policies and Commodity Financial practices legal and risk reporting regulatory Delegated Basis risk processes authorities Inflation risk Fraud Pillar 3 Property risk Governance disclosures processes Alternative assets Information security IT systems People processes Physical security Regulatory processes Risk processes Service provision Sourcing Credit risk Definition Credit risk is defined as the risk that parties with whom the Group has contracted fail to meet their obligations both on and off-balance sheet.
Risk appetite Credit risk appetite is set at Board level and is described and reported through a suite of metrics derived from a combination of accounting and credit portfolio performance measures, which may include the use of various credit risk rating systems as inputs.
These metrics are supported by more detailed appetite metrics at divisional and business level and by a comprehensive suite of policies, sector caps, product and country limits to manage concentration risk and exposures within the Groups approved risk appetite.
This statement of the Groups overall appetite for credit risk is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
With the support of the Group Risk Committee, the Group Chief executive allocates this risk appetite across the Group.
Exposures The principal sources of credit risk within the Group arise from loans and advances, contingent liabilities, commitments, debt securities and derivatives to customers, financial institutions and sovereigns.
The credit risk exposures of the Group are set out in note 54 on page 327. Credit risk exposures are categorised as retail, arising primarily in the Retail and Wealth, Asset Finance and International divisions, commercial and corporate, financial institutions or sovereigns arising in the Commercial Banking and Wealth, Asset Finance and International divisions.
In terms of loans and advances, credit risk arises both from amounts lent and commitments to extend credit to a customer as required.
These commitments can take the form of loans and overdrafts or credit instruments such as guarantees and standby, documentary and commercial letters of credit.
With respect to commitments to extend credit, the Group is potentially also exposed to loss in an amount equal to the total unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is less than the total unused commitments, as most retail commitments to extend credit can be cancelled without notice and the creditworthiness of customers is monitored frequently.
Most commercial term commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards, which are monitored regularly.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 134 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT loans and advances, contingent liabilities, commitments, debt securities and derivatives also expose the Group to refinance risk.
Refinance risk is the possibility that an outstanding exposure cannot be repaid at its contractual maturity date.
If the Group does not wish to refinance the exposure then there is refinance risk if the obligor is unable to repay by securing alternative finance.
This may be because the borrower is in financial difficulty, or because the terms required to refinance are outside acceptable market appetite at the time.
Refinance risk exposures are managed in accordance with the Groups existing credit risk policies, processes and controls, and are not considered to be material given the Groups prudent and through the cycle credit risk appetite.
Where refinance risk exists such as in the interest only retail mortgage portfolio and the Commercial Banking non-core book exposures are minimised through intensive account management and are impaired where appropriate.
Credit risk can also arise from debt securities, private equity investments, derivatives and foreign exchange activities.
The total notional principal amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative and equity and other contracts outstanding at 31 December 2013 is shown on page 246.
The notional principal amount does not, however, represent the Groups credit risk exposure, which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group.
Such amounts are reflected in note 54 on page 327. Credit risk exposures in the Insurance business largely result from holding fixed income assets in the shareholder funds including the annuity portfolio and from exposure to reinsurers.
Second order credit risk exposure exists within the unit-linked funds, through the value of future fee income, and with-profits funds, through any guarantees.
Credit risk exposure also arises in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes from holding investments.
note 41 on page 271 provides further information on the defined benefit schemes assets and liabilities.
Measurement In measuring the credit risk of loans and advances to customers and to banks at a counterparty level, the Group reflects three components: i the probability of default by the counterparty on its contractual obligations: ii current exposures to the counterparty and their likely future development, from which the Group derives the exposure at default: and iii the likely loss ratio on the defaulted obligations the loss given default.
For regulatory capital purposes the Groups rating systems assess probability of default and if appropriate, exposure at default and loss given default, in order to derive an expected loss.
If not appropriate, regulatory prescribed exposure at default and loss given default values are used in order to derive an expected loss.
In contrast, impairment allowances are recognised for financial reporting purposes only for loss events that have occurred at the balance sheet date, based on objective evidence of impairment.
Due to the different methodologies applied, the amount of incurred credit losses provided for in the financial statements differs from the amount determined from the expected loss models that are used for internal operational management and banking regulation purposes.
note 2 H on page 217provides details of the Groups approach to the impairment of financial assets.
The quality definition of both retail and commercial counterparties exposures is largely based on the outcomes of credit risk probability of default PD models.
The Group operates a significant number of different rating models, typically developed internally using statistical analysis and management judgement retail models rely more on the former, commercial models include more of the latter, especially in the larger corporate and more specialised lending portfolios.
Internal data is supplemented with external data in model development, where appropriate.
The models vary, inter alia, in the extent to which they are point in time versus through the cycle.
The models are subject to rigorous validation and oversight governance including, where appropriate, benchmarking to external information.
In commercial portfolios the PD models segment counterparties into a number of rating grades, with each grade representing a defined range of default probabilities, and there are a number of different model rating scales.
Counterparties exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the PD changes.
The modelled PDs map through local scales to a single Corporate non-retail Master Scale comprising of 19 non-default ratings.
Together with four default ratings the Corporate Master Scale forms the basis on which internal reporting is completed.
In its principal retail portfolios, exposure at default and loss given default models are also in use.
They have been developed internally and use statistical analysis combined, where appropriate, with external data and subject matter expert judgement.
For reporting purposes, counterparties are also segmented into a number of rating grades, each representing a defined range of default probabilities and exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the counterparty probability of default changes.
each rating model is subject to a validation process, undertaken by independent risk teams, which includes benchmarking to externally available data, where possible.
The most material rating models are approved by the Group Risk Committee.
Responsibility for the approval of the remaining material rating models, and the governance framework in place around all Group models, is delegated to the Group Model Governance Committee.
Mitigation The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk.
Internal control Credit principles and policy: Risk Division sets out the credit principles and policy according to which credit risk is managed.
Principles and policies are reviewed regularly, and any changes are subject to a review and approval process.
Policies, where appropriate, are supported by lending guidelines, which also define the responsibilities of lending officers and provide a disciplined and focused benchmark for credit decisions.
These policies and lending guidelines define chosen target market and risk acceptance criteria.
Risk Division also use early warning indicators to help anticipate future areas of concern and allow the Group to take early and proactive mitigating actions.
Risk oversight teams monitor credit performance trends, review and challenge exceptions to planned outcomes, and test the adequacy of credit risk infrastructure and governance processes throughout the Group.
This includes tracking portfolio performance against an agreed set of key risk indicators.
Oversight and reviews are also undertaken by Group Audit and Credit Risk Assurance.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 134 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Controls over rating systems: The Group has established an independent team in the Risk Division that sets common minimum standards, designed to ensure risk models and associated rating systems are developed consistently, and are of sufficient quality to support business decisions and meet regulatory requirements.
Internal rating systems are developed and owned by the Risk Division.
line management takes responsibility for ensuring the validation of the rating systems, supported and challenged by an independent specialist group function.
Concentration risk: Credit risk management includes portfolio controls on certain industries, sectors and product lines to reflect risk appetite as well as individual limit guidelines.
Credit policy is aligned to the Groups risk appetite and restricts exposure to higher risk countries and more vulnerable sectors and segments.
note 20 on page 250, provides an analysis of loans and advances to customers by industry for commercial customers and product for retail customers.
exposures are monitored to prevent an excessive concentration of risk and single name concentrations.
These concentration risk controls are not necessarily in the form of a maximum limit on lending, but may instead require new business in concentrated sectors to fulfil additional certain minimum policy and or guideline requirements.
The Groups large exposures are reported in accordance with regulatory reporting requirements.
Cross-border exposures: The Board sets country risk appetite.
Within this, country limits are authorised by the country limits committee, taking into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
Group policies stipulate that these limits must be consistent with, and support, the approved business and strategic plans of the Group.
Specialist expertise: Credit quality is managed and controlled by a number of specialist units within Risk Division providing, for example: intensive management and control see Intensive care of customers in financial difficulty : security perfection, maintenance and retention: expertise in documentation for lending and associated products: sector specific expertise: and legal services applicable to the particular market place and product range offered by the business.
Stress testing and scenario analysis: The Groups credit portfolios are also subjected to regular stress testing, with stress scenario assessments run at various levels of the organisation from Group led exercises to individual divisions portfolios exercises.
For further information on the stress testing process, methodology and governance refer to page 127. Credit risk assurance and review: A specialist team within Group Audit, comprising experienced credit professionals, is in place to perform credit risk assurance.
This team carries out independent risk based internal control audits and credit quality reviews, providing an assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls, risk management practices, credit risk classification, as well as the accuracy of impairment provisions.
These audits and reviews cover the diverse range of the Groups businesses and activities, and include both standard risk based audits and reviews as well as bespoke assignments to respond to any emerging risks or regulatory requirement.
The work of Group Audit therefore continues to provide executive and senior management and Audit Committee with assurance and guidance on credit quality, effectiveness of credit risk controls and Business Support unit BSu work out strategies, as well as accuracy of impairments.
Credit risk assurance within Commercial Banking is also undertaken by Commercial Risk Assurance.
Commercial Risk Assurance is an independent credit risk oversight function operating within Commercial Banking Risk, part of the Groups second line of defence, while Group Audit performs third line of defence assurance.
Additional mitigation for retail customers lending to individuals in Retail and Wealth, Asset Finance and International divisions The Group uses a variety of lending criteria when assessing applications for mortgages and unsecured lending.
The general approval process uses credit acceptance scorecards and involves a review of an applicants previous credit history using information held by credit reference agencies CRA.
The Group also assesses the affordability of the borrower under stressed scenarios including increased interest rates.
In addition, the Group has in place quantitative limits such as product maximum limits, the level of borrowing to income and the ratio of borrowing to collateral.
Some of these limits relate to internal approval levels and others are hard limits above which the Group will reject the application.
The Group also has certain criteria that are applicable to specific products such as for applications for a mortgage on a property that is to be let by the applicant.
The Groups lending practices within Retail have changed since 2009 in several ways: the Group has lowered its maximum loan-to-value lTV thresholds, which have been reduced across all mortgage product types: the Group has withdrawn from specialist secured lending since early 2009 self-certificated and sub-prime lending and increased credit scorecard cut-offs for both secured and unsecured lending: and the Group has tightened its assessments and the maximum limit for affordability of borrowings for both secured and unsecured lending.
In addition, the number of properties permitted in buy-to-let portfolios has been reduced.
For uK mortgages, the Groups policy is to reject all standard applications with a lTV greater than 90 per cent.
Applications with a lTV up to 95 per cent are permitted for certain schemes, for example Help to Buy and lend a Hand.
For mainstream mortgages the Group has maximum per cent lTV limits which depend upon the loan size.
Buy-to-let mortgages are limited to a maximum of 1,000,000 and 75 per cent lTV.
All mortgage applications above 500,000 are subject to manual underwriting.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 136 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT The Groups approach to underwriting applications for unsecured products in Retail takes into account the total unsecured debt held by a customer and their affordability.
The Group rejects any application for an unsecured product where a customer is registered as bankrupt or insolvent, or has a County Court Judgment registered at a CRA used by the Group.
In addition, for credit cards the Group rejects any applicant with total unsecured debt greater than 50,000 registered at the CRA: revolving debt-to-income ratio greater than 75 per cent: or total unsecured debt-to-income ratio greater than 100 per cent.
For unsecured personal loan applications, the Group rejects any applicant with total unsecured debt greater than 50,000 registered at the CRA.
Rules around refinancing of debt have also been made more stringent since 2009 as a result of the application of rules relating to the total unsecured debt held by a customer and the Groups approach in assessing affordability.
This has resulted in fewer customers being eligible to refinance unsecured debt.
Credit scoring: In its principal retail portfolios, the Group uses statistically based decisioning techniques primarily credit scoring models.
The Risk Division reviews model effectiveness, while new models and model changes are referred by them to the appropriate Model Governance Committees for approval.
The most material changes are approved in accordance with the governance framework set by the Group Model Governance Committee.
Additional mitigation for commercial customers Individual credit assessment and independent sanction: With the exception of low exposures on SMe customers where relationship managers have some limited delegated sanctioning authority, credit risk in commercial customer portfolios is subject to individual credit assessments, which consider the strengths and weaknesses of individual transactions and the balance of risk and reward.
exposure to individual counterparties, groups of counterparties or customer risk segments is controlled through a tiered hierarchy of delegated sanctioning authorities and limit guidelines.
Approval requirements for each decision are based on a number of factors including the transaction amount, the customers aggregate facilities, credit risk ratings and the nature and term of the risk.
The Groups credit risk appetite criteria for counterparty underwriting is generally the same as that for assets intended to be held over the period to maturity.
Counterparty limits: limits are set against all types of exposure in a counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for each exposure type.
This includes credit risk exposure on individual derivative transactions, which incorporates potential future exposures from market movements.
Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are set and limit breaches are subject to escalation procedures.
Daily settlement limits: Settlement risk arises in any situation where a payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, securities or equities.
Daily settlement limits are established for each counterparty to cover the aggregate of all settlement risk arising from the Groups market transactions on any single day.
Collateral The principal collateral types for loans and advances, contingent liabilities and derivatives with commercial counterparties customers are: mortgages over residential and commercial real estate: charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts receivables: charges over financial instruments such as debt securities and equities: and guarantees received from third parties.
The Group maintains appetite guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes of collateral.
Collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and advances is determined by the nature of the instrument.
Debt securities, treasury and other bills are generally unsecured, with the exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments such as covered bonds, which are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
Collateral is generally not held against loans and advances to financial institutions, except where securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or securities borrowing transactions or where a collateral agreement has been entered into under a master netting agreement.
Derivative transactions with wholesale counterparties are typically collateralised under a Credit Support Annex in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
It is the Groups policy that collateral should always be realistically valued by an appropriately qualified source, independent of both the credit decision process and the customer, at the time of borrowing.
Collateral is reviewed on a regular basis and will vary according to the type of lending and collateral involved.
For residential mortgages, the Group adjusts open market property values to take account of the costs of realisation and any discount associated with the realisation of the collateral.
In order to minimise the credit loss, the Group may seek additional collateral from the counterparty as soon as impairment indicators are identified for the relevant individual loans and advances.
The Group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and collateral type, as appropriate, with a view to ensuring that any potential undue concentrations of risk are identified and suitably managed by changes to strategy, policy and or business plans.
Refer to note 54 for further information on collateral.
Master netting agreements Where it is appropriate and likely to be effective, the Group seeks to enter into master netting agreements.
Although master netting agreements do not generally result in an offset of balance sheet assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, as transactions are usually settled on a gross basis, they do reduce the credit risk to the extent that, if an event of default occurs, all amounts with the counterparty are terminated and settled on a net basis.
The Groups overall exposure to credit risk on derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements can change substantially within a short period, since this is the net position of all trades under the master netting agreement.
Other credit risk transfers The Group also undertakes asset sales, credit derivative based transactions and securitisations as a means of mitigating or reducing credit risk, taking into account the nature of assets and the prevailing market conditions.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 136 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Monitoring In conjunction with Risk Division, businesses identify and define portfolios of credit and related risk exposures and the key benchmarks, behaviours and characteristics by which those portfolios are managed in terms of credit risk exposure.
This entails the production and analysis of regular portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior management.
Risk Division in turn produces an aggregated review of credit risk throughout the Group, including reports on significant credit exposures, which are presented to the GRC and the BRC.
The performance of all rating models is monitored on a regular basis, in order to seek to ensure that models provide appropriate risk differentiation capability, the generated ratings remain as accurate and robust as practical, and the models assign appropriate risk estimates to grades pools.
All models are monitored against a series of agreed key performance indicators.
In the event that the monitoring identifies material exceptions or deviations from expected outcomes, these will be escalated in accordance with the governance framework set by the Group Model Governance Committee.
Intensive care of customers in financial difficulty The Group operates a number of treatments to assist borrowers who are experiencing financial stress.
The material elements of these treatments through which the Group has granted a concession, whether temporarily or permanently, are set out below and in note 54 on page 327.
Retail customers The Groups aim in offering forbearance and other assistance to retail customers in financial distress is to benefit both the customer and the Group by discharging the Groups regulatory and social responsibilities to support its customers and act in their best long-term interests and by bringing customer facilities back into a sustainable position which, for residential mortgages, also means keeping customers in their homes.
The Group offers a range of tools and assistance to support retail customers who are encountering financial difficulties.
Cases are managed on an individual basis, with the circumstances of each customer considered separately and the action taken judged as being affordable and sustainable for the customer.
Operationally, the provision and review of such assistance is controlled through the application of an appropriate policy framework, controls around the execution of policy, regular review of the different treatments to confirm that they remain appropriate, monitoring of customers performance and the level of payments received, and management visibility of the nature and extent of assistance provided and the associated risk.
Assistance is provided through trained colleagues in branches and dedicated telephony units, and via online guidance material.
For those customers requiring more intensive help, assistance is provided through dedicated support units where tailored repayment programmes can be agreed.
Customers are actively supported and referred to free money advice agencies when they have multiple credit facilities, including those at other lenders, that require restructuring.
Within the Collections and Recoveries functions, the sharing of best practice and alignment of policies across the Group has helped to drive more effective customer outcomes and achieve operational efficiencies.
One component of the Groups relationship management approach is to contact customers showing signs of financial difficulty to discuss their circumstances and offer solutions to prevent their accounts falling into arrears.
The specific tools available to assist customers vary by territory and product and the customers status.
In defining the treatments offered to customers who have experienced financial distress, the Group distinguishes between the following categories: Reduced contractual monthly payment: a temporary account change to assist customers through periods of financial difficulty where arrears do not accrue at the original contractual payments, for example temporary interest only arrangements and short-term payment holidays granted in collections.
Any arrears existing at the commencement of the arrangement are retained.
Reduced payment arrangements: a temporary arrangement for customers in financial distress where arrears accrue at the contractual payment, for example short-term arrangements to pay.
Term extensions: a permanent account change for customers in financial distress where the overall term of the mortgage is extended, resulting in a lower contractual monthly payment.
Repair: a permanent account change used to repair a customers position when they have emerged from financial difficulty, for example capitalisation of arrears.
To assist customers in financial distress, the Group also participates in, or benefits from, the following uK government sponsored programmes for households: Income Support for Mortgage Interest This is a government medium-term initiative that provides certain defined categories of customers, principally those who are unemployed, access to a benefit scheme, paid for by the government, which covers all or part of the interest on the mortgage.
Qualifying customers are able to claim for mortgage interest on up to 200,000 of the mortgage.
All decisions regarding an individuals eligibility and any amounts payable under the scheme rest solely with the government.
Payments are made directly to the Group by the appropriate government department.
Mortgage Rescue Scheme This is a government short-term initiative for borrowers in difficulty and facing repossession, who would have priority for re-housing by a local authority e. g. the elderly, disabled, single parents.
eligible customers can have their property bought in full or part by the social rented sector and then remain in their home as a tenant or shared equity partner.
If the property is sold outright the mortgage is redeemed in full.
Commercial customers early identification, control and monitoring are key in order to support the customer and protect the Group.
All non-retail loans and advances core and non-core in Commercial Banking are reviewed at least annually by the independent Risk Division and more frequently where required.
As part of the Groups established Credit Risk Classification system, every loan and advance in the good book is categorised as either good or watchlist.
This complements the Groups risk rating tools and is designed to identify and highlight portfolio levels of asset quality as well as individual problem credits.
All watchlist names are reviewed by the business and Risk Division at least once a month, and the Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 138 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT classification is updated if required.
This process seeks to ensure that relationship managers act promptly to identify, and highlight to senior management those customers who have the possibility to become higher risk in the future.
It is Group policy that where forbearance has been granted for a commercial customer, it must be managed either within the Groups good book watchlist Credit Risk Classification framework or within a BSu.
Any concession requested by a customer is reviewed and must be approved by the independent Risk Division.
If approved and Risk Division determines that the customer is in financial difficulty, then any off market concession granted is treated as forbearance and the loan reviewed monthly.
Any event that causes concern over future payments from the customer is likely to result in the asset being assessed for impairment and, if required, an impairment allowance recognised.
If impairment is identified, the customer is immediately transferred to BSu and will be treated as an impaired asset.
If no impairment is identified, the Risk Division will determine if the customer should remain in the good book categorised as watchlist, or transfer to BSu for more intensive monitoring.
Customers requiring intensive care are transferred at an early stage to one of the Groups BSus or Customer Support for smaller Commercial Banking small and medium-sized enterprises with debt facilities below 1 million.
The over-arching aim of the BSu is to provide support and work with each customer to try and resolve the issues, to restore the business to a financially viable position and thereby bring about a business turnaround.
This may involve debt restructuring and forbearance.
Core BSu and Global non-Core case officers are part of the independent Risk Division.
They are highly experienced and operate in a closely controlled and monitored environment, including regular oversight and close scrutiny by senior management.
Risk is minimised through a combination of appropriate work-out strategies, such as asset loan sales and debt restructuring.
A detailed assessment is undertaken by the specialist risk team for cases in Core BSu and Global non-Core to assist in reducing risk exposure and to highlight potential strategic options.
A range of information is required to fully appraise and understand the customers business, cashflow and therefore debt serviceability and will involve the Group, in addition to using its own internal sector experts, engaging professional advisers to perform asset valuations, strategic reviews and where applicable independent business reviews.
The assessment may also involve: critically assessing customers ability to successfully manage the business effectively in a distressed situation where turnaround is required: analysis of market sector factors, i. e. products, customers, suppliers, pricing and margin issues: performance review of operational areas that should be considered in terms of current effectiveness and efficiency and scope for improvements: financial analysis to model plans and factor in potential sensitivities, vulnerabilities and upsides: and determining the most appropriate corporate and capital structure suitable for the work-out strategy concerned.
The above assessment, monitoring and control processes continue throughout the period the case is managed within the BSu.
All the analysis performed around cash flows is used to determine appropriate impairment provisions.
The Groups accounting policy for loan renegotiations and forbearance is set out in note 2 on page 213.
Income statement information set out in the credit risk tables is on an underlying basis see page 52.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 138 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 The Group credit risk portfolio in 2013 Overview Impairment charge decreased by 47 per cent to 3,004 million in the year to 31 December 2013, continuing the improvement seen in 2012.
The impairment charge has decreased across all divisions.
The impairment charge as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers improved to 0.57 per cent compared to 1.02 per cent at 31 December 2012.
Impaired loans as a percentage of closing advances reduced to 6.3 per cent at 31 December 2013, from 8.6 per cent at 31 December 2012, driven by improvements in Retail and Commercial Banking and reflecting reductions in both the core and non-core books.
Table 1.5: Impairment charge by division 2013 2012 Change m m % Retail 1,101 1,270 13 Commercial Banking 1,167 2,946 60 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 730 1,480 51 Central items 6 1 Total impairment charge 3,004 5,697 47 Impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.57% 1.02% 45 bp Core Retail 1,059 1,192 11 Commercial Banking 424 704 40 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 32 22 45 Central items 6 1 Core impairment charge 1,521 1,919 21 Core impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.35% 0.44% 9 bp Non-core Retail 42 78 46 Commercial Banking 743 2,242 67 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 698 1,458 52 Non-core impairment charge 1,483 3,778 61 non-core impairment charge as a % of average advances 1.61% 3.08% 147 bp Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 140 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Table 1.6: Total impairment charge 2013 2012 Change m m % loans and advances to customers 2,988 5,654 47 Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 1 15 93 Available-for-sale financial assets 15 37 59 Other credit risk provisions 9 Total impairment charge 3,004 5,697 47 Table 1.7: Movement in gross impaired loans 2013 m At 1 January 2013 46,293 Classified as impaired during the year 9,552 Transferred to not impaired during the period 3,054 Repayments 1,603 Amounts written off 9,520 Impact of disposal of businesses and asset sales 9,377 exchange and other movements 32 At 31 December 2013 32,259 The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 140 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Table 1.8: Impairments on loans and advances Loans and Impaired loans Impairment advances to as % of closing Impairment provision as % of 1 2 customers Impaired loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2013 Retail 344,673 7,187 2.1 2,050 32.5 Commercial Banking 132,602 14,714 11.1 6,415 43.6 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 31,450 10,358 32.9 7,242 69.9 Reverse repos and other items 2,779 Total gross lending 511,504 32,259 6.3 15,707 50.1 Impairment provisions 15,707 3 Fair value adjustments 516 Total Group audited 495,281 Core Retail 320,520 5,819 1.8 1,734 34.8 Commercial Banking 111,883 5,131 4.6 2,441 47.6 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 6,610 406 6.1 99 24.4 Reverse repos and other items 2,779 Total core gross lending 441,792 11,356 2.6 4,274 40.6 Impairment provisions 4,274 3 Fair value adjustments 552 Total core 436,966 Non-core Retail 24,153 1,368 5.7 316 24.0 Commercial Banking 20,719 9,583 46.3 3,974 41.5 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 24,840 9,952 40.1 7,143 71.8 Reverse repos and other items Total non-core gross lending 69,712 20,903 30.0 11,433 54.8 Impairment provisions 11,433 3 Fair value adjustments 36 Total non-core 58,315 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding retail unsecured loans in recoveries 881 million: core: 831 million: non-core: 50 million.
3 The fair value adjustments relating to loans and advances were those required to reflect the HBOS assets in the Groups consolidated financial records at their fair value and took into account both the expected losses and market liquidity at the date of acquisition.
The unwind relating to future impairment losses requires significant management judgement to determine its timing which includes an assessment of whether the losses incurred in the current period were expected at the date of the acquisition and assessing whether the remaining losses expected at the date of the acquisition will still be incurred.
The element relating to market liquidity unwinds to the income statement over the estimated expected lives of the related assets until 2014 for wholesale loans and 2018 for retail loans although if an asset is written-off or suffers previously unexpected impairment then this element of the fair value will no longer be considered a timing difference liquidity but permanent impairment.
The fair value unwind in respect of impairment losses incurred was 512 million for the period ended 31 December 2013.
The fair value unwind in respect of loans and advances is expected to continue to decrease in future years as fixed-rate periods on mortgages expire, loans are repaid or written-off, and will reduce to zero over time.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 142 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT loans and Impaired loans Impairment advances to as % of closing Impairment provision as % of 1 2 customers Impaired loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 Retail 346,560 8,320 2.4 2,335 32.5 Commercial Banking 144,770 23,965 16.6 9,984 41.7 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 42,927 14,008 32.6 9,453 67.5 Reverse repos and other items 5,814 Total gross lending 540,071 46,293 8.6 21,772 48.2 Impairment provisions 21,772 3 Fair value adjustments 1,074 Total Group audited 517,225 Core Retail 320,058 6,693 2.1 1,957 34.7 Commercial Banking 104,867 5,907 5.6 2,866 48.5 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 5,415 351 6.5 85 24.2 Reverse repos and other items 5,814 Total core gross lending 436,154 12,951 3.0 4,908 41.2 Impairment provisions 4,908 3 Fair value adjustments 778 Total core 430,468 non-core Retail 26,502 1,627 6.1 378 24.5 Commercial Banking 39,903 18,058 45.3 7,118 39.4 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 37,512 13,657 36.4 9,368 68.6 Reverse repos and other items Total non-core gross lending 103,917 33,342 32.1 16,864 50.7 Impairment provisions 16,864 3 Fair value adjustments 296 Total non-core 86,757 1 Impairment provisions Include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding Retail unsecured loans in recoveries 1,129 million: core: 1,047 million: non-core: 82 million.
The fair value unwind in respect of impairment losses incurred was 868 million for the period ended 31 December 2012.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 142 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Table 1.9: Derivative credit risk exposures Traded over the counter Traded on Not settled recognised Settled by central by central exchanges counterparties counterparties Total Notional balances bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2013 Foreign exchange 11 422 433 Interest rate 234 3,881 926 5,041 equity and other 4 15 19 Credit 7 7 Total 238 3,892 1,370 5,500 The fair value of derivatives settled by central counterparties was a net liability of 419 million, comprising assets of 3,220 million and liabilities of 3,639 million.
The fair value of derivatives not settled by central counterparties was 2,344 million, comprising assets of 28,808 million and liabilities of 26,464 million.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 144 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Credit risk Retail Overview The Retail impairment charge decreased by 13 per cent to 1,101 million primarily driven by a reduction in impaired loans in the secured portfolio.
The Retail impairment charge, as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers, improved to 0.32 per cent in 2013 from 0.36 per cent in 2012.
The overall value of assets entering arrears in 2013 was lower in both unsecured and secured lending compared to 2012. non-core portfolio represented 7 per cent of total retail assets at 31 December 2013 and primarily comprised of specialist mortgages, which is closed to new business and has been in run-off since 2009.
Table 1.10: Retail impairment charge 2013 2012 Change m m % Secured 253 377 33 unsecured 848 893 5 Total impairment charge 1,101 1,270 13 Core Secured 218 304 28 unsecured 841 888 5 1,059 1,192 11 Non-core Secured 35 73 52 unsecured 7 5 40 42 78 46 Total impairment charge 1,101 1,270 13 Impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.32% 0.36% 4 bp Core impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.33% 0.37% 4 bp non-core impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.17% 0.29% 12 bp The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 144 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Impaired loans and provisions Retail impaired loans decreased by 1,133 million to 7,187 million compared with 31 December 2012 and, as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers, decreased to 2.1 per cent from 2.4 per cent at 31 December 2012.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans excluding unsecured loans in recoveries are stable at 32.5 per cent.
Table 1.11: Impairments on Retail loans and advances Impaired Impairment loans as provisions Loans and a % of as a % of advances to Impaired closing Impairment impaired 1 3 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2013 Secured 323,107 5,641 1.7 1,472 26.1 unsecured: Collections 665 578 86.9 2 Recoveries 881 21,566 1,546 7.2 578 Total gross lending 344,673 7,187 2.1 2,050 32.5 Impairment provisions 2,050 Fair value adjustments 673 Total 341,950 Core Secured 299,085 4,327 1.4 1,158 26.8 unsecured: Collections 661 576 87.1 2 Recoveries 831 21,435 1,492 7.0 576 Total core gross lending 320,520 5,819 1.8 1,734 34.8 Impairment provisions 1,734 Fair value adjustments 570 Total core 318,216 Non-core Secured 24,022 1,314 5.5 314 23.9 unsecured: Collections 4 2 50.0 2 Recoveries 50 131 54 41.2 2 Total non-core gross lending 24,153 1,368 5.7 316 24.0 Impairment provisions 316 Fair value adjustments 103 Total non-core 23,734 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Recoveries assets are written down to the present value of future expected cash flows on these assets.
3 Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding unsecured loans in recoveries.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 146 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Impaired Impairment loans as provisions loans and a % of as a % of advances to Impaired closing Impairment impaired 1 3 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 Secured 323,862 6,321 2.0 1,616 25.6 unsecured: Collections 870 719 82.6 2 Recoveries 1,129 22,698 1,999 8.8 719 Total gross lending 346,560 8,320 2.4 2,335 32.5 Impairment provisions 2,335 Fair value adjustments 915 Total 343,310 Core Secured 297,902 4,793 1.6 1,251 26.1 unsecured: Collections 853 706 82.8 2 Recoveries 1,047 22,156 1,900 8.6 706 Total core gross lending 320,058 6,693 2.1 1,957 34.7 Impairment provisions 1,957 Fair value adjustments 778 Total core 317,323 non-core Secured 25,960 1,528 5.9 365 23.9 unsecured: Collections 17 13 76.5 2 82 Recoveries 542 99 18.3 13 Total non-core gross lending 26,502 1,627 6.1 378 24.5 Impairment provisions 378 Fair value adjustments 137 Total non-core 25,987 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 146 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 The Retail divisions loans and advances to customers are analysed in the following table: Table 1.12: Retail loans and advances to customers 2013 2012 m m Secured: Mainstream 246,586 248,735 Buy to let 52,791 49,568 Specialist 23,730 25,559 323,107 323,862 unsecured: Credit cards 9,373 9,465 Personal loans 9,595 10,523 Overdrafts 2,598 2,710 21,566 22,698 Total gross lending 344,673 346,560 Secured lending Impairment The impairment charge decreased by 124 million, to 253 million compared with 2012.
The annualised impairment charge as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers was 0.08 per cent at 31 December 2013 compared to 0.12 per cent in 2012.
Impairment provisions were 1,472 million at 31 December 2013 compared to 1,616 million at 31 December 2012.
Impaired loans have fallen for four consecutive years and were 5,641 million at 31 December 2013 compared to 6,321 million at 31 December 2012.
As a result of this continued trend in 2013, impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 26.1 per cent from 25.6 per cent at 31 December 2012.
The impairment provisions held against secured assets reflect the Groups view of appropriate allowance for incurred losses.
The Group holds appropriate impairment provisions for customers who are experiencing financial difficulty, either on a forbearance arrangement or who may be able to maintain their repayments only whilst interest rates remain low.
Arrears The value of mortgages greater than three months in arrears excluding repossessions decreased by 819 million to 8,818 million at 31 December 2013 compared to 9,637 million at 31 December 2012.
The stock of repossessions decreased to 2,229 cases at 31 December 2013 compared to 2,438 cases at 31 December 2012.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 148 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Secured loan to value analysis The average indexed loan to value lTV on the mortgage portfolio at 31 December 2013 decreased to 52.8 per cent compared with 56.4 per cent at 31 December 2012.
The average lTV for new mortgages and further advances written in 2013 was 63.6 per cent compared with 62.6 per cent for 2012.
The percentage of closing loans and advances with an indexed lTV in excess of 100 per cent decreased to 5.2 per cent at 31 December 2013, compared with 11.7 per cent at 31 December 2012.
2 Average loan to value is calculated as total loans and advances as a percentage of the total collateral of these loans and advances.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 148 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Interest only mortgages The Group provides interest only mortgages to customers, whereby payments made by the customer comprise of only interest for the term of the mortgage, with the customer responsible for repaying the principal outstanding at the end of the loan term.
Retail has reduced its exposure to residential interest only mortgages throughout 2013. new residential interest only mortgages are limited to a maximum lTV of 75 per cent, with a verified repayment vehicle capable of repaying the loan.
Interest only mortgages represented 0.5 per cent of new residential mortgages in 2013 3.8 per cent in 2012.
Table 1.15:Analysis of residential interest-only balances excluding Buy to Let mortgages At 31 Dec At 31 Dec 2013 2012 m m 1 Interest only balances 108,504 119,569 Impaired loans 2,910 3,221 Interest only balances as a % of total mortgage book 41.0% 44.6% Average loan to value % 55.2% 58.9% 1 In addition the Group has Buy to let interest only balances of 47,261 million 2012: 44,585 million and certain other interest only balances of 4,750 million 2012: 6,046 million.
For existing interest only mortgages, a contact strategy is in place throughout the term of the mortgage to ensure that customers are aware of their obligation to repay the principal upon maturity of the loan.
The weighted-average term to maturity of the interest only balances included in the table above is 13 years: mortgages totalling 12,003million are due to mature in the next five years, with mortgages totalling 1,846 million due to mature in the next 12 months.
Treatment strategies exist to help customers who may not be able to fully repay the full amount of principal balance at maturity.
Of the residential interest only mortgages which have missed the payment of principal at the end of term, balances of 959 million remain at 31 December 2013 523 million at 31 December 2012.
The average loan to value of these accounts is 27.3 per cent at 31 December 2013 27.0 per cent at 31 December 2012.
Of these accounts, 7.4 per cent are impaired 7.2 per cent at 31 December 2012. unsecured lending Impairment In 2013 the impairment charge on unsecured loans and advances to customers reduced by 45 million compared with 2012.
The annualised impairment charge as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers increased to 3.80 per cent in 2013 from 3.73 per cent in 2012.
Impaired loans decreased by 453 million since 31 December 2012 to 1,546 million at 31 December 2013 which represented 7.2 per cent of closing loans and advances to customers, compared with 8.8 per cent at 31 December 2012.
The reduction in impaired loans is a result of the Groups prudent risk appetite and ongoing effective portfolio management.
Retails exposure to revolving credit products has been actively managed to ensure that it is appropriate to customers changing financial circumstances.
Impairment provisions decreased by 141 million, compared with 31 December 2012.
This reduction was driven by fewer assets entering arrears and recoveries assets being written down to the present value of future expected cash flows.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans in collections increased to 86.9 per cent at 31 December 2013 from 82.6 per cent at 31 December 2012.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 150 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Credit risk Commercial Banking Overview Commercial Banking impairment charge decreased by 60 per cent to 1,167 million, driven by lower charges mainly in the non-core portfolio, reflecting continued proactive management and deleveraging.
Charges also reduced significantly in the core portfolio, reflecting better quality origination, together with higher releases in 2013 compared to the same period in 2012.
The overall quality of the core Commercial Banking portfolio remains good with the Groups prudent through the cycle approach to risk appetite, and the continuing low interest rate environment helping to maintain defaults at a relatively low level.
new business is of good quality and better than the back book average.
The impairment charge as a percentage of average loans and advances improved to 0.83 per cent from 1.85 per cent in 2012.
Core impairment charge as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers improved to 0.39 per cent compared to 0.67 per cent in 2012. non-core now represents 15.6 per cent of total loans and advances to customers compared to 27.6 per cent at 31 December 2012, reflecting the improved mix of the portfolio overall.
Table 1.16: Commercial Banking impairment charge 2013 2012 Change m m % Core 424 704 40 non-core 743 2,242 67 Total impairment charge 1,167 2,946 60 Core impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.39% 0.67% 28 bp non-core impairment charge as a % of average advances 2.32% 4.28% 196 bp Impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.83% 1.85% 102 bp Impaired loans and provisions Commercial Banking impaired loans reduced substantially by 38.6 per cent to 14,714 million compared with 31 December 2012.
As a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers, impaired loans reduced to 11.1 per cent from 16.6 per cent at 31 December 2012, despite a reducing portfolio.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans improved to 43.6 per cent from 41.7 per cent at 31 December 2012 driven by increased provisions made on a number of existing impaired connections and the disposal of impaired loans with lower coverage.
Core impaired loans decreased by 776 million to 5,131 million compared with 5,907 million at 31 December 2012, and as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers decreased to 4.6 per cent from 5.6 per cent at 31 December 2012.
The core impairment charge has reduced to 424 million in 2013 compared to 704 million in 2012, reflecting better quality origination and higher releases, with the low interest rate environment helping to maintain defaults at a relatively lower level.
non-core impaired loans decreased by 8,475 million to 9,583 million compared with 18,058 million at 31 December 2012 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers increased to 46.3per cent from 45.3per cent at 31 December 2012.
The non-core impairment charge has reduced to 743 million in 2013 compared to 2,242 million in 2012, reflecting the continued deleveraging.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 150 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Table 1.17: Impairments on loans and advances Impaired loans Impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2013 Total Commercial Banking 132,602 14,714 11.1 6,415 43.6 Reverse repos 120 Impairment provisions 6,415 Fair value adjustments 176 Total 126,483 Core Total Commercial Banking 111,883 5,131 4.6 2,441 47.6 Reverse repos 120 Impairment provisions 2,441 Fair value adjustments 18 Total core 109,580 Non-core 2 Corporate Real estate and other Corporate 11,571 8,131 70.3 3,320 40.8 3 Specialist Finance 9,017 1,368 15.2 565 41.3 Other 131 84 64.1 89 Total Commercial Banking 20,719 9,583 46.3 3,974 41.5 Reverse repos Impairment provisions 3,974 Fair value adjustments 158 Total non-core 16,903 1 Includes collective unimpaired provisions of 523 million: core: 446 million: non-core: 77 million.
2 Includes the Corporate Real estate BSu portfolio which is now managed with other Corporate including non-core good book Corporate Real estate assets which were previously disclosed in Other.
3 Includes the specialised lending portfolio which is now managed with the Specialist Finance assets which were previously disclosed in Other.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 152 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Impaired loans Impairment loans and as a % of provisions advances to Impaired closing Impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 Total Commercial Banking 144,770 23,965 16.6 9,984 41.7 Reverse repos 5,087 Impairment provisions 9,984 Fair value adjustments 131 Total 139,742 Core Total Commercial Banking 104,867 5,907 5.6 2,866 48.5 Reverse repos 5,087 Impairment provisions 2,866 Fair value adjustments Total core 107,088 non-core 2 Corporate Real estate and other Corporate 21,777 14,447 66.3 5,411 37.5 3 Specialist Finance 15,488 2,935 19.0 1,235 42.1 Other 2,638 676 25.6 472 69.8 Total Commercial Banking 39,903 18,058 45.3 7,118 39.4 Reverse repos Impairment provisions 7,118 Fair value adjustments 131 Total non-core 32,654 1 Includes collective unimpaired provisions of 894 million: core: 545 million: non-core: 349 million.
Core At 31 December 2013 112billion of gross loans and advances to customers in the Commercial Banking core portfolio are segmented across four different coverage segments as follows: SME SMe serves business customers with turnover up to 25 million.
Impaired loans decreased by 399 million to 2,271 million compared with 2,670 million at 31 December 2012.
The impairment charge has reduced to 188 million in 2013 compared to 259 million in 2012 reflecting stable or improved portfolio credit quality across all key metrics.
The SMe portfolio continues to grow within prudent and consistent credit risk appetite parameters with net lending increasing 6 per cent year-on-year.
These results reflect the Groups continuing commitment to support the uK economy and government schemes such as Funding for lending and enterprise Finance Guarantee.
SMes control and monitoring activities have continued to play a fully effective role in identifying and supporting customers showing early signs of financial stress.
As part of this, the Groups dedicated SMe Business Support function continues to work with customers through their difficulties.
Mid Markets Mid Markets serves business customers with turnover of 25 million to 750 million.
The business remains predominantly uK-focused and is closely linked to the performance of the domestic economy.
Impaired loans decreased by 261 million to 1,591 million compared with 1,852 million at 31 December 2012.
The impairment charge has reduced to 157 million in 2013 compared to 238 million in 2012.
Overall credit quality has remained stable during 2013.
The real estate business within the Groups Mid Markets portfolio is focused predominantly on unquoted private real estate portfolios.
Credit quality continues to improve and the number of new non-performing customers continues to reduce.
new business propositions are being written under robust policy parameters and in line with agreed risk appetite, with particular focus on cashflow.
Tenant default is an area of potential focus particularly when the lending is supported by secondary or tertiary assets.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 152 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Global Corporates Global Corporates is a coverage business operating across the uK, europe and north America and is responsible for the overall management of relationships with major corporate clients.
Impaired loans increased slightly by 37 million to 1,173 million compared with 1,136 million at 31 December 2012.
The impairment charge has reduced to 75 million in 2013 compared to 195 million in 2012.
The core portfolio related to trading companies continues to be predominantly investment grade focused: the overall portfolio asset quality remains good: and corporate balance sheets generally remain conservatively structured following a period of fide-leveraging through the downturn.
The real estate business within the Groups Global Corporate portfolio is focused on the larger end of the uK property market with a bias to the quoted public listed companies and funds sector.
Portfolio credit quality remains strong being underpinned by seasoned management teams with proven asset management skills generating predictable cash flows from their income producing portfolios.
Financial Institutions Commercial Banking maintains relationships with a number of major uK and International Finance Institutions, which are predominantly investment grade rated.
These relationships are either client focused or held to support the Groups funding, liquidity and general hedging requirements.
The impairment charge in Financial Institutions remained low at 4 million.
Trading exposures continue to be predominantly short-term and or collateralised with inter bank activity mainly undertaken with strong investment grade counterparties.
While conditions in the eurozone stabilised during 2013, the Group continues to adopt a conservative stance maintaining close portfolio scrutiny and oversight.
Detailed contingency plans are in place and exposures to financial institutions domiciled in peripheral eurozone countries are kept modest and managed within tight risk parameters.
Overall, portfolio credit quality remains good and outlook is stable.
The majority of funding and risk management activity is transacted with investment grade counterparties including Sovereign central banks and much of it is on a collateralised basis, such as repos and swaps facing a Central Counterparty CCP.
Bilateral derivative transactions with Financial Institution counterparties are typically collateralised under a credit support annex in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
The Group continues to consolidate its counterparty risk via CCPs as part of an ongoing move to reduce bilateral counterparty risk by clearing standardised derivative contracts.
non-core The non-core portfolio includes elements of the Corporate Real estate and Specialist Finance portfolios which are classified as non-core.
Non-core Corporate Real Estate and other Corporate loans and advances to customers include the non-core Corporate Real estate Business Support unit BSu portfolio.
Following successful asset reduction progress, this portfolio is now managed together with european assets and other Corporate assets previously disclosed as Other non-core.
The impairment charge in this portfolio fell to 522 million compared to 1,453 million in 2012.
The fall in the impairment charge reflects lower gross charges on a reduced portfolio, favourable market movements on impaired derivatives and the continuing proactive management enabling some write backs on previously impaired loans.
The portfolio has reduced significantly ahead of expectations primarily due to the momentum on various deleveraging strategies including consensual asset sales by customers, loan sales and asset disposals which totalled 7.4 billion net book value in the year.
The non-core Corporate Real estate BSu element of the portfolio reduced from 15.7 billion to 8.9 billion during 2013 and there was considerable progress on the european exposure within this portfolio where loan balances fell from 3.7 billion to 0.7 billion.
Non-core specialist finance loans and advances to customers include the non-core Acquisition Finance leverage lending portfolio which falls into non-core since it is outside the Groups risk appetite, and the non-core Asset Based Finance portfolios which include Ship Finance, Aircraft Finance and Infrastructure.
Total gross loans and advances reduced by 6.5 billion from 15.5 billion to 9.0 billion as at 31 December 2013 mainly due to disposals of 4.5 billion net book value.
Ship Finance gross drawn lending excluding leasing totalled 1,074 million net 965 million as at 31 December 2013.
This portfolio still suffers some stress due to volatile asset values and ongoing financial restructures.
As a consequence, impairment charges are running at similar levels to those experienced in 2012, however continued strategic disposals through 2013 have materially fide-risked the residual portfolio.
Secured loan to value analysis for uK Direct Real estate lending The Group classifies Direct Real estate as exposure which is directly supported by cash flows from property activities, as opposed to trading activities such as hotels, care homes and housebuilders.
The Group manages its exposures to Direct Real estate across a number of different coverage segments.
Core UK Direct Real Estate Approximately three quarters of loans and advances relate to commercial real estate with the remainder mostly residential real estate.
A large element of the residential exposure is to professional landlords in the Groups SMe business where performance has been good.
Approximately two thirds of the core commercial real estate portfolio was originated under heritage lloyds TSB credit risk criteria.
The Groups risk appetite requires it to look first at the underlying cash flows as part of credit assessment, alongside key requirements for good quality counterparties and a well spread tenant profile.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 154 155 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Non-core UK Direct Real Estate The Group considers this portfolio to be appropriately provided for after taking into account the value of the collateral held.
In the case of impaired uK Direct Real estate exposures over 5 million there is a net property collateral shortfall of approximately 0.1 billion.
This figure excludes benefits of credit mitigants such as cross collateralisation and cross guarantees.
The Group makes use of a variety of methodologies to assess the value of property collateral, where external valuations are not available.
These include use of market indexes, models and subject matter expert judgement.
loan to value ratios indexed or actual if within last 12 months for the Groups largest transactions over 5 million are detailed in the table below.
Acquisition leverage Finance lending Gross drawn lending in the core Acquisition Finance portfolio totalled 2,128 million net 2,111 million as at 31 December 2013.
The portfolio comprises leveraged financing facilities made available, predominantly, to uK borrowers owned by private equity sponsors.
The majority of transactions have been structured in the past three years and all are in line with the Groups risk appetite.
Refinancing risk is not considered a material issue for the portfolio due to the relatively young vintage of the book and conservative risk parameters.
Gross drawn lending in the non-core Acquisition Finance portfolio totalled 836 million net 667 million as at 31 December 2013.
Impairment charges in the non-core Acquisition Finance portfolio continue to decline significantly, reflecting further material reductions in the size of the portfolio and stabilising market conditions.
Disposals of 1,566 million net book value were achieved during 2013.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 154 155 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Credit risk Wealth, Asset Finance and International Overview The Wealth, Asset Finance and International impairment charge was 730 million in 2013, 51 per cent lower than 2012.
The improvement was primarily driven by the Irish portfolio.
In the Irish wholesale portfolios, 88.3 per cent 31 December 2012: 85.2 per cent is now impaired with an impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans of 73.1 per cent 31 December 2012: 68.0 per cent, primarily reflecting continued deterioration in the Irish commercial property market.
net exposure in Ireland wholesale has fallen to 3.4 billion 31 December 2012: 5.4 billion.
In the Irish retail mortgage portfolio, impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans decreased to 63.4 per cent 31 December 2012: 71.2 per cent, driven by the sale of a portfolio of non performing mortgages.
Table 1.19: Impairment charge Change 2013 2012 2012 m m % Wealth 18 23 22 International: Ireland retail 26 108 Ireland commercial real estate 219 739 70 Ireland corporate 415 398 4 Spain retail 17 51 67 netherlands retail 17 23 26 Asia retail 1 35 latin America and Middle east 33 641 1,321 51 Asset Finance: united Kingdom 57 121 53 Australia 14 15 7 71 136 48 Total impairment charge 730 1,480 51 Core Wealth 18 23 22 International Asset Finance 14 1 Core impairment charge 32 22 45 Non-core Wealth International 641 1,321 51 Asset Finance 57 137 58 Non-core impairment charge 698 1,458 52 Impairment charge as a % of average advances 1.79% 3.12% 133 bp Core impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.50% 0.45% 5bp non-core impairment charge as a % of average advances 2.03% 3.42% 139 bp Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 156 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Impaired loans and provisions Total impaired loans decreased by 3,650 million to 10,358 million compared with 14,008 million at 31 December 2012 and, as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers, increased to 32.9 per cent from 32.6 per cent at 31 December 2012.
This is primarily driven by reductions in Ireland wholesale.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 69.9 per cent from 67.5 per cent at 31 December 2012.
This increase was driven by the International portfolios.
Table 1.20: Impairments on loans and advances Impairment Impaired loans provisions Loans and as a % of as a % of advances to Impaired closing Impairment impaired 1 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2013 Wealth 3,218 349 10.8 70 20.1 International: Ireland retail 5,944 1,002 16.9 638 63.7 Ireland commercial real estate 5,512 5,087 92.3 3,775 74.2 Ireland corporate 3,918 3,235 82.6 2,305 71.3 Spain retail netherlands retail 5,478 86 1.6 45 52.3 Asia retail 1,645 109 6.6 39 35.8 latin America and Middle east 23 17 73.9 24 22,520 9,536 42.3 6,826 71.6 Asset Finance: united Kingdom 5,712 473 8.3 346 73.2 Australia 5,712 473 8.3 346 73.2 Total gross lending 31,450 10,358 32.9 7,242 69.9 Impairment provisions 7,242 Fair value adjustments 19 Total 24,189 Core Wealth 3,218 349 10.8 70 20.1 International Asset Finance 3,392 57 1.7 29 50.9 Total core gross lending 6,610 406 6.1 99 24.4 Impairment provisions 99 Fair value adjustments Total core 6,511 Non-core Wealth International 22,520 9,536 42.3 6,826 71.6 Asset Finance 2,320 416 17.9 317 76.2 Total non-core gross lending 24,840 9,952 40.1 7,143 71.8 Impairment provisions 7,143 Fair value adjustments 19 Total non-core 17,678 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 156 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Impairment provisions loans and Impaired as a % of advances to Impaired loans as a % Impairment impaired 1 customers loans of closing advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 Wealth 4,325 284 6.6 73 25.7 International: Ireland retail 6,656 1,534 23.0 1,111 72.4 Ireland commercial real estate 7,408 6,720 90.7 4,695 69.9 Ireland corporate 5,467 4,247 77.7 2,768 65.2 Spain retail 1,458 104 7.1 94 90.4 netherlands retail 5,689 79 1.4 41 51.9 Asia retail 1,978 80 4.0 46 57.5 latin America and Middle east 46 36 78.3 31 86.1 28,702 12,800 44.6 8,786 68.6 Asset Finance: united Kingdom 5,848 885 15.1 541 61.1 Australia 4,052 39 1.0 53 9,900 924 9.3 594 64.3 Total gross lending 42,927 14,008 32.6 9,453 67.5 Impairment provisions 9,453 Fair value adjustments 28 Total 33,446 Core Wealth 4,325 284 6.6 73 25.7 International Asset Finance 1,090 67 6.1 12 17.9 Total core gross lending 5,415 351 6.5 85 24.2 Impairment provisions 85 Fair value adjustments Total core 5,330 non-core Wealth International 28,702 12,800 44.6 8,786 68.6 Asset Finance 8,810 857 9.7 582 67.9 Total non-core gross lending 37,512 13,657 36.4 9,368 68.6 Impairment provisions 9,368 Fair value adjustments 28 Total non-core 28,116 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 158 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT International Ireland The Group continues to reduce its exposure to Ireland with gross loans and advances reducing by 4,157 million during 2013 mainly due to disposals, write-offs and net repayments.
Total impaired loans decreased by 3,177 million, or 25 per cent to 9,324 million compared with 12,501 million at 31 December 2012.
The reduction was driven primarily by commercial real estate and corporate loans.
Impaired loans as a percentage of closing loans and advances decreased to 60.6 per cent compared to 64.0 per cent at December 2012.
Continuing weakness in the Irish real estate markets resulted in a further increase in Ireland wholesale coverage in 2013 to 73.1 per cent.
Impairment charges decreased by 637 million to 608 million compared to 2012.
The impairment charge as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers improved to 3.28 per cent from 5.53 per cent in 2012.
Ireland retail loans and advances to customers decreased to 5,944 million in 2013 from 6,656 million at 31 December 2012.
Impaired loans as a percentage of loans and advances decreased to 16.9 per cent from 23.0 per cent at 31 December 2012.
In the Irish retail mortgage portfolio impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans decreased to 63.4 per cent from 71.2 per cent at 31 December 2012.
These decreases have all been driven by the sale of a portfolio of non performing mortgages.
The most significant contribution to impaired loans in Ireland is the Commercial Real estate portfolio.
92.3 per cent of the portfolio is now impaired compared to 90.7 per cent at 31 December 2012.
The impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased in the year to 74.2 per cent from 69.9 per cent 31 December 2012 reflecting the continued deterioration in commercial real estate prices in Ireland.
Secured loan to value analysis Ireland Retail Mortgages The average loan to value lTV on the Irish mortgage portfolio decreased to 102.3 per cent at 31 December 2013 compared with 113.8 per cent at 31 December 2012.
The percentage of loans and advances with an indexed lTV in excess of 100 per cent decreased to 53.8 per cent at 31 December 2013, compared with 63.1 per cent at 31 December 2012.
The table below shows the lTV distribution of the retail mortgage portfolio.
Table 1.21: Actual and average LTVs across the Ireland Retail mortgage portfolio At At 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Total Total % % less than 60% 15.3 11.7 60% to 70% 6.0 5.0 70% to 80% 7.5 5.9 80% to 90% 8.1 6.8 90% to 100% 9.3 7.5 Greater than 100% 53.8 63.1 Total 100.0 100.0 Average loan to value: Stock of residential mortgages 102.3 113.8 Impaired mortgages 104.7 123.5 The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 158 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Commercial Real estate lending in Ireland: secured loan to value analysis loan to value ratios indexed or actual if within last 18 months for the Groups largest transactions over A5 million are detailed in the table below.
The Group considers this portfolio to be appropriately provided for after taking into account the provisions held for each transaction and the value of the collateral held.
In the case of impaired Ireland commercial real estate exposures over A5 million there is a net property collateral shortfall of approximately 0.2 billion.
The Group makes use of a variety of methodologies to assess the value of property collateral where external valuations are not available.
Table 1.22: LTV Ireland Wholesale Commercial Real Estate At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 m % m % Gross exposures A5 million: less than 60% 84 2 119 2 61% to 70% 11 20 71% to 80% 15 27 81% to 100% 88 2 165 3 101% to 125% 81 2 182 3 More than 125% 3,555 83 4,927 81 unsecured 440 11 674 11 4,274 100 6,114 100 Gross exposures A5 million 1,238 1,294 Total 5,512 7,408 Other international Total impaired loans decreased to 212 million at 31 December 2013 compared to 299 million at 31 December 2012, driven by the sale of the Spain retail portfolio.
In the netherlands impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 52.3 per cent from 51.9 per cent at 31 December 2012.
Asset Finance united Kingdom: the impairment charge reduced by 53 per cent to 57 million of which 43 million related to non-core assets compared with 121 million in 2012, driven by continued strong credit management and further improved credit quality.
The retail portfolio saw fewer customers failing to meet their payment arrangements resulting in a lower proportion of people falling into arrears.
The retail impairments also benefited from debt sale activity during the course of the year.
The number of defaults in all areas of the commercial and corporate lending book was low relative to the last three years, reflecting effective previous and ongoing credit risk management actions.
Australia: the portfolio was fully disposed of in the second half of 2013.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 160 161 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Exposures to Eurozone countries The following section summarises the Groups direct exposure to eurozone countries at 31 December 2013.
The exposures comprise on-balance sheet exposures based on their balance sheet carrying values and off-balance sheet exposures, and are based on the country of domicile of the counterparty unless otherwise indicated.
The Group manages its exposures to individual countries through authorised country limits which take into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
In addition, the Group manages its direct risks to the selected countries by establishing and monitoring risk limits for individual banks, financial institutions, corporates and individuals.
Identified indirect exposure information is also taken into account when setting limits and determining credit risk appetite for individual counterparties.
This forms part of the Groups credit analysis undertaken at least annually for counterparty and sector reviews, with interim updates performed as necessary.
Interim updates would usually be triggered by specific credit events such as rating downgrades, sovereign events or other developments such as spread widening.
examples of indirect risk which have been identified are: european Banking groups with lending and other exposures to certain eurozone countries: corporate customers with operations or significant trade in certain european jurisdictions: major travel operators known to operate in certain eurozone countries: and international banks with custodian operations based in certain european locations.
The Group Financial Stability Forum GFSF monitors developments within the eurozone, carries out stress testing through detailed scenario analysis and completes appropriate due diligence on the Groups exposures.
The GFSF has carried out a number of scenario analyses and rehearsals to test the Groups resilience in the event of further instability in certain eurozone countries.
The Group has developed and refined pre-determined action plans that would be executed in such scenarios.
The plans set out governance requirements and responsibilities for the key actions which would be carried out and cover risk areas such as payments, liquidity and capital, communications, suppliers and systems, legal, credit, delivery channels and products, employees and the impact on customers.
The Group has included certain amounts on a net basis to better reflect the overall risk to which the Group is exposed.
The gross IFRS reported values for the exposures to eurozone countries are detailed in the following tables.
Derivative balances are included within exposures to financial institutions or corporates, as appropriate, at fair value adjusted for master netting agreements at obligor level and net of cash collateral in line with legal agreements.
exposures in respect of reverse repurchase agreements are included on a gross IFRS basis and are disclosed based on the counterparty rather than the collateral repos and stock lending are excluded : reverse repurchase exposures are not, therefore, reduced as a result of collateral held.
Reverse repurchase exposures to institutional funds secured by uK gilts are excluded from all eurozone exposures as detailed in the footnotes.
exposures to central clearing counterparties are shown net.
For multi-country asset backed securities exposures, the Group has reported exposures based on the largest country exposure.
The country of exposure for asset backed securities is based on the location of the underlying assets which are predominantly residential mortgages not in the domicile of the issuer.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 160 161 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 exposures to selected eurozone countries The Group continues to have minimal exposure, in aggregate, which could be considered to be direct recourse to the sovereign risk of the selected countries.
In addition to the exposures detailed above, the Group has the following exposures to sovereigns, financial institutions, asset backed securities, corporates and personal customers in the following eurozone countries: Table 1.24: Other Eurozone Exposures Sovereign debt Direct Cash at Financial institutions Asset sovereign central backed Insurance 1 exposures banks Banks Other securities Corporate Personal assets Total m m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2013 netherlands 8,683 741 188 216 2,025 5,434 798 18,085 France 1,425 17 42 3,199 115 1,017 5,815 Germany 174 1,831 1,107 495 442 1,613 721 6,383 luxembourg 1 1,337 1,595 46 2,979 Belgium 700 1 582 53 1,336 All other eurozone countries 127 5 306 172 610 301 10,514 3,979 2,038 700 9,320 5,549 2,807 35,208 At 31 December 2012 netherlands 1 33,232 478 2 268 2,207 5,649 977 42,814 France 6 853 77 3,226 312 1,457 5,931 Germany 284 1,809 389 414 400 2,117 977 6,390 luxembourg 2 752 1,841 71 2,666 Belgium 309 25 568 64 966 All other eurozone countries 56 438 214 708 291 35,043 2,085 1,193 745 10,397 5,961 3,760 59,475 1 excludes reverse repurchase exposure to institutional funds domiciled in luxembourg secured by uK Gilts of 1,559 million 2012: 82 million on a gross basis.
Total balances with other eurozone countries have decreased from 59,475 million to 35,208 million.
This is primarily due to a decrease in Dutch central bank balances.
Derivatives with sovereigns and sovereign referenced credit default swaps are insignificant.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 162 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Environmental risk management The Group ensures appropriate management of the environmental impact of its lending activities.
The Group-wide Credit Risk principles require all credit risk to be incurred with due regard to environmental legislation and the Groups Code of Business Responsibility.
Within Commercial Banking, an electronic environmental risk screening system has been the primary mechanism for assessing environmental risk in lending transactions.
This system provides screening of location specific and sector based risks that may be present in a transaction.
Identified risk sees the transaction referred to the Groups expert in-house environmental Risk team for further review and assessment, as outlined below.
Where required, the Groups panel of environmental consultants provide additional expert support.
The Group provides colleague training in environmental risk management as part of the standard suite of credit risk courses.
Supporting this training, a range of online resource is available to colleagues and includes environmental risk theory, procedural guidance, and information on environmental legislation and sector-specific environmental impacts.
The Group has been a signatory to the equator Principles since 2006 and has adopted and applied the expanded scope of equator Principles III.
The equator Principles support the Groups approach to assessing and managing environmental and social issues in Project Finance Project-Related Corporate loans and Bridge loans.
Further information is contained within the Groups Responsible Business Report.
Table 1.25: Environmental risk management approach Group Credit Principles Environmental Risk Initial transaction Detailed Environmental Environmental screening review due diligence risk approval Credit Policies Relationship In-house team, Panel including any teams retained consultancy consultants conditions Business Unit Processes Sector briefings Supporting tools Legislation briefings uK renewable energy policy Over the past two years, the uK government has undertaken an electricity Market Reform review, in line with its aim to introduce a more stable investment regime Contract for Difference CFD.
Primary legislation for this was passed in December 2013, with secondary legislation likely to be passed by July 2014.
From then on, the current Renewables Obligation will run alongside CFD through to 2017.
At present, it appears that given the limited availability of commercially acceptable or bankable Power Purchase Agreements under the Renewable Obligation regime, independent generators are restricting their investment in the uK.
These market reforms are intended to encourage investment of around 200 billion by 2020 in projects designed to provide clean, secure, affordable energy.
Clearly, uK and eu policy have impacts on the Groups customers.
It influences the decisions they take about whether or not to invest in sustainable projects or initiatives.
However, the Groups focus is on promoting the commercial benefits of sustainability to its customers.
The Group is working with them and the uK government to help meet Britains renewable energy objectives.
Renewable energy Project Finance As an active participant in the Project Finance Market, the Group is already playing a key role in finding solutions to current and future green funding requirements.
For example, at the end of 2013, the Group was involved in renewable energy projects across Britain, with a combined capacity of more than 3580MW.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 162 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Conduct risk Definition Conduct risk is defined as the risk of customer detriment or regulatory censure and or a reduction in earnings value, through financial or reputational loss, from inappropriate or poor customer treatment or business conduct.
Risk appetite The Group has no appetite for systemic unfair customer outcomes arising from any of its activities: through product design, sales or other after sales processes.
This appetite is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
To achieve this, the Group has policies, processes and standards which provide the framework for businesses and colleagues to operate in accordance with the laws, regulations and voluntary codes which apply to the Group and its activities.
Exposures Conduct risk affects all aspects of the Groups operations, all types of customers and other stakeholders.
The Group faces significant conduct risks, for example, through products or services not meeting the needs of its customers, sales processes resulting in poor advice or failure to deal with a customers complaint effectively where the Group has got something wrong and not met customer expectations.
Given the high level of scrutiny regarding financial institutions treatment of customers and business conduct from regulatory bodies, the media and politicians, there is a risk that certain aspects of the Groups current or legacy business may be determined by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and other regulatory bodies or the courts as not being conducted in accordance with applicable laws or regulations, or fair and reasonable treatment in their opinion.
The Group may also be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the conduct of its business.
Measurement To articulate its conduct risk appetite, the Group has sought more granularity through the use of suitable conduct risk metrics and tolerances that indicate where it may potentially be operating outside its conduct appetite.
Conduct Risk Appetite Metrics CRAMs have been designed for all products offered by the Group: these contain a range of product, sales and post-sales metrics to provide a more holistic view of conduct risks.
CRAMs being put in place include complaints, FOS upheld, outcome testing, customer feedback, colleague survey, whistleblowing and rectification metrics.
Strong governance is in place to ensure that CRAMs are presented at relevant governance forums for review, challenge and action.
The Group will also measure how effectively the overall conduct strategy is embedded across all divisions and functions.
Mitigation The Group takes a range of mitigating actions with respect to this risk.
These actions are being embedded throughout the Group as part of the Groups Conduct Strategy.
This includes: enhanced approach to business planning and strategy with customers at the heart: Cultural transformation, linked to the Groups values and Codes of Responsibility, to deliver the best bank for customers: enhanced product governance framework to ensure products continue to offer customers value for money, and meet the needs of the relevant target market: Sales processes and governance framework to deliver consistently fair outcomes: CRAMs to identify where the Group may be operating outside its risk appetite: Continuing the journey to become the industry leader for complaints performance: and enhanced recruitment and training, and a focus on how the Group manages colleagues performance with clearer customer accountabilities.
The Groups leadership team is committed to embedding the Conduct Strategy within the business and to creating the right customer centric culture.
The Board and Group Risk Committees receive regular reports and metrics to track progress on how the Group is meeting customer needs and minimising conduct risk.
All Group divisions have applied significant resources to the Conduct Strategy and set ambitious conduct transformation plans.
The Groups Conduct Strategy continues to evolve and be enhanced.
The Group actively engages with regulatory bodies and other stakeholders in developing its understanding of current customer treatment concerns to ensure that the implementation of the Groups conduct strategy meets evolving stakeholder expectations.
Monitoring A robust outcomes testing regime is in place to test performance of customer critical activities end-to-end.
Customer metrics are proactively used when reviewing business performance and feedback loops have been established to take learnings from root cause outcome testing.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 164 165 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Market risk Definition Market risk is defined as the risk that unfavourable market moves including changes in and increased volatility of interest rates, market-implied inflation rates, credit spreads and bond prices, foreign exchange rates, equity, property and commodity prices and other instruments, lead to reductions in earnings and or value.
Risk appetite The Groups overall appetite for market risk is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
With the support of the Group Asset and liability Committee, the Group Chief executive allocates this risk appetite across the Group.
Individual members of the Group executive Committee ensure that market risk appetite is further cascaded to an appropriate level within their areas of responsibility.
Exposures Defined benefit pension schemes The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are exposed to significant risks from the constituent parts of their assets and from the present value of their liabilities, primarily real interest rate, credit spread and equity risk.
Interest rate risk arises from the liability discount rate, with partial offsets from fixed interest assets such as gilts and corporate bonds, and swaps.
Credit spread risk also arises from the liability discount rate, with partial offsets from the credit portfolio.
equity risk arises from direct equity holdings.
For further information on defined benefit pension scheme assets and liabilities please refer to note 41 on page 271.
Trading portfolios The Groups trading activity is small relative to its peers and the Group does not have a programme of proprietary trading activities.
All the trading Value at Risk VaR resides within Commercial Banking.
The average 95 per cent 1-day trading VaR was 4.1 million for the year to 31 December 2013 2012: 7.0 million.
The Groups trading activity is undertaken to meet the requirements of wholesale and retail customers for foreign exchange, credit spread and interest rate products.
Trading market risk measures are applied to all the Groups regulatory trading books where positions arise from supporting customer flow and market making.
All positions are held with trading intent.
Measures include daily VaR Table 1.29, sensitivity based measures, and stress testing.
The Groups trading book assets and liabilities are substantially originated by Financial Markets within the Commercial Banking division.
Within the Groups balance sheet these fall under the trading assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments see Table 1.26 below.
Table 1.26: Market risk linkages to the balance sheet for trading portfolios and Banking activity items Relevant notes Balance Trading from financial sheet total books statements m m 31 December 2013 Assets Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 142,683 42,376 note 17 Derivative financial instruments 33,125 25,531 note 18 loans and advances to customers 495,281 note 20 Liabilities Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 43,625 38,319 note 34 Derivative financial instruments 30,464 25,086 note 18 Customer deposits 441,311 note 33 Table 1.26 above shows relevant balance sheet items relating to banking and trading activities.
The trading book VaR sensitivity inputs are separately identified.
Banking activities The Groups banking activities expose it to the risk of adverse movements in interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity prices, with little or no exposure to commodity risk.
The volatility of market values can be affected by both the transparency of prices and the amount of liquidity in the market for the relevant asset or liability.
Interest rate risk in the Groups divisional portfolios and in the Groups capital and funding activities arises from the different repricing characteristics of the Groups non-trading assets, liabilities see loans and advances to customers and customer deposits in Table 1.26 above and off balance sheet positions of the Group.
Interest rate risk arises predominantly from the mismatch between interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, but also to the investment term of capital and reserves, and the need to minimise income volatility.
Margin compression risk also arises from the current low rate environment, which may restrict the ability to change interest rates applying to customers in response to changes in interbank and central bank rates.
Prepayment risk arises, predominantly in the Retail division, as customer balances amortise more quickly or slowly than anticipated due to economic conditions or customers response to changes in economic conditions.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 164 165 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Pipeline and pre hedge risk arises where new business volumes are higher or lower than forecasted, requiring the business to unwind or execute additional hedging at rates which may differ to what was expected.
Basis risk arises from the possible changes in spreads, for example where the bank lends with reference to a central bank rate but funds with reference to lIBOR and the spread between these widens or tightens.
Foreign currency risk arises from: a translational exposure: the Groups investment in its overseas operations.
net investment exposures are disclosed see note 54 on page 327 and it is Group policy to hedge non-functional currency exposures: and b transactional exposure: where assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the business functional currency.
The Group has a policy of forward hedging its forecasted currency income less impairments to year end.
Insurance portfolios The Groups insurance activities expose it to market risk encompassing equity, credit spread, interest rate, exchange rate and property risk : With-profits funds are managed with the aim of generating smoothed returns consistent with policyholders expectations.
exposure arises where the value of the underlying funds are insufficient to meet the obligations, termed burnthrough.
unit-linked funds where policyholders select their investments.
exposure arises as future fee income is dependent upon the performance of those assets.
This fee income forms part of the Value of in-force business, see note 28 on page 257.
Annuities where policyholders future cashflows are guaranteed at retirement.
exposure arises if the assets, predominantly fixed income, backing the liabilities do not perform in line with expectations.
Insurances surplus assets also result in market risk exposure.
These assets are held primarily in three portfolios: i in the long-term funds within the life insurance companies: ii in the corresponding shareholder funds: and iii in investment portfolios within the general insurance business.
The majority of Insurances equity risk exposure relates to unit-linked funds, through the value of future fee income, and with-profits funds, through burnthrough.
Credit spread risk exposure largely results from holding fixed income assets in the annuity portfolio with the aim of providing additional returns.
Table 1.27: Key market risks for the Group PBT impact measured against Group single stress scenarios Risk type Interest rate Basis risk FX Credit spread equity Inflation Defined benefit pension schemes l l l l l Trading portfolios l l l l l Banking activities l l l l l l Insurance portfolios l l l l l Key: Profit before tax: 500m l 250-500m l 250m l 50m l Measurement Market risk is managed within a Board approved framework and risk appetite.
This is supplemented by divisional market risk appetite limits and triggers.
A variety of risk measures are used such as: Scenario stress based measures e. g. single factor stresses, macroeconomic scenarios : Percentile based measures e. g. VaR and Stressed VaR : and Sensitivity based measures e. g. sensitivity to 1 basis point move in interest rates.
Scenario based measures include the use of five different economic multi-risk scenarios which the Group introduced as part of its Board risk appetite.
These assess the impact of unlikely, but plausible adverse scenarios on income, with the worst case for defined benefit pensions, trading portfolios, banking activities and insurance portfolios being reported against the Board risk appetite.
Internal market risk models for trading book activities comprise VaR, Stressed VaR and Incremental Risk Charge and these are explained in detail in the Groups Market Risk section of the Pillar III Disclosures.
Although an important market standard measure of risk, VaR has limitations.
These arise from the use of limited historical data, an assumed distribution, defined holding periods, set confidence intervals and frequency of calculation.
The exposure level at the confidence interval does not convey any information about potential losses which may arise if this level is exceeded.
A 95 per cent confidence interval with a 1-day holding period is equivalent to an expected 1 in 20 day loss.
The Group recognises these limitations and supplements the use of VaR with a variety of other techniques more suited to the nature of the business activity.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 166 167 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT In addition: Capital impact and deficit triggers are used in respect of defined benefit pensions which have a material impact on capital resources.
Profit and loss triggers are used in the trading books in order to ensure that mitigating action is considered if profit and loss becomes volatile.
Interest rate repricing gaps, earnings sensitivity analysis, and open foreign exchange positions are used for banking book activity, and Stress testing and scenario analysis are also used in certain portfolios and at Group level, to simulate the impact of extreme conditions and to understand more fully the interdependence of different parts of the balance sheet.
These measures are reviewed regularly by senior management to inform effective decision making.
Defined benefit pension schemes Management of the assets is the responsibility of the Trustees of the schemes who are responsible for setting the investment strategy and for agreeing funding requirements with the Group.
The difference between assets and liabilities determines whether there is a surplus or deficit.
Any deficit must be met by the Group with additional funding agreed with the Trustees as part of a triennial valuation process.
For accounting purposes, a AA corporate bond based discount rate is used to determine present value of liabilities resulting in significant credit spread risk.
Assets are marked to market.
Trading portfolios Based on the 1-day 95 per cent confidence level, assuming positions are held overnight and using observation periods of the preceding 300 business days, the VaR for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012 based on the Groups global trading positions is detailed in table 1.28.
The risk of loss measured by the VaR model is the potential loss in earnings given the confidence level and assumptions noted above.
The total and average trading VaR does not assume any diversification benefit across the five risk types.
The maximum and minimum VaR reported for each risk category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the maximum and minimum VaR reported as a whole.
The Group internally uses VaR as the primary measure for all trading book positions arising from short term market facing activity.
Trading book VaR 1-day 99 per cent is compared daily against both forecast and actual profit and loss.
The average VaR for 2013 was lower than the average over 2012 due primarily to lower credit spread and interest rate exposure and improvement in market conditions.
Trading book VaR assumes no diversification across risk type, instead it is a simple sum of interest rate, foreign exchange, credit spread, and inflation risk.
Table 1.28: Trading portfolios: VaR 1-day 95 per cent confidence level audited Close Average Maximum Minimum m m m m At 31 December 2013 Interest rate risk 3.5 2.9 4.8 2.0 Foreign exchange risk 0.2 0.4 2.0 0.1 equity risk Credit spread risk 0.8 0.5 1.4 0.3 Inflation risk 0.2 0.3 0.7 0.1 Total VaR 4.7 4.1 6.5 2.7 1-day 99 per cent VaR charts for 2013 for lloyds Bank, HBOS and lloyds Banking Group models can be found in the Groups Pillar III Disclosures.
Close Average Maximum Minimum m m m m At 31 December 2012 Interest rate risk 2.8 4.2 7.4 1.9 Foreign exchange risk 0.3 0.4 1.0 equity risk Credit spread risk 0.8 1.9 3.6 0.7 Inflation risk 0.5 0.5 1.3 0.1 Total VaR 4.4 7.0 11.4 4.1 Open market risk for the trading operations continues to be low with respect to the size of the Group and similar institutions, reflecting the fact that the Groups trading operations are customer-centric, focusing on hedging and recycling client risks.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 166 167 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Banking activities Market risk in non-trading books consists of exposure to changes in interest rates including basis risk.
This is the potential impact on earnings and value that occurs due to mismatches in the timing of repricing assets and liabilities.
Interest rate risk exposure is monitored monthly using, primarily: a Market value sensitivity: this methodology considers all repricing mismatches behaviourally adjusted where appropriate in the current balance sheet and calculates the change in market value that would result from an instantaneous 25, 100 and 200 basis points parallel rise or fall in the yield curve subject to a floor at zero per cent.
b Interest income sensitivity: this measures the impact on future net interest income arising from an instantaneous 25, 100 and 200 basis points parallel rise or fall in all the yield curves over a rolling 12 month basis subject to a floor at zero per cent.
unlike the market value sensitivities, the interest income sensitivities incorporate additional behavioural assumptions as to how and when individual products would reprice in response to such change.
c Value at Risk VaR : for short dated portfolios and other accrual accounted trading portfolios, where the portfolio turns over more than once within a three month horizon, VaR is used for internal risk management.
d Market Value notional limit: this caps the amount of conventional and inflation-linked government bonds held by the Group for liquidity purposes.
The Group has an integrated Asset and liability Management AlM system which supports non traded asset and liability management of the Group.
This provides a single consolidated tool to measure and manage interest rate repricing profiles including behavioural assumptions, perform stress testing and produce forecast outputs.
Interest rate gaps are reported by currency and used to calculate the income and value sensitivities in GBP equivalent.
Repricing assumptions and customer reaction to changes in product pricing is a major determinant of the risk profile.
The Group is aware that any assumptions based model is open to challenge.
However, a full behavioural review is performed annually by Group AlM functions to ensure the assumptions remain appropriate, and is reviewed by Risk Division.
A limit structure exists to ensure that risks stemming from residual and temporary positions or from changes in assumptions about customer behaviour remain within the Groups risk appetite.
Table 1.29 below shows, split by material currency, the Groups market value sensitivities to an instantaneous parallel up and down 25 basis points change to all interest rates.
Table 1.29: Banking activities: market value sensitivity 1 2013 2012 Up 25bps Down 25bps up 25bps Down 25bps m m m m Sterling 25.1 25.6 51.4 54.0 uS dollar 16.3 16.5 14.9 16.7 euro 0.4 0.6 14.5 8.5 Australian dollar 0.7 0.1 1.0 1.0 Other 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 Total 10.2 9.9 81.7 80.1 1 Restated This is a risk based disclosure and the amounts shown would be amortised in the income statement over the duration of the portfolio.
The measure, however, is simplified in that it assumes all interest rates, for all currencies and maturities, move at the same time and by the same amount.
Table 1.30 below shows the banking book income sensitivity to an instantaneous parallel up and down 25 basis points change to all interest rates.
Table 1.30: Banking activities: net interest income sensitivity audited 2013 2012 Up 25bps Down 25bps up 25bps Down 25bps m m m m Client facing activity and associated hedges 48.2 136.0 202.0 209.3 The market value sensitivity is driven by temporary customer flow positions not yet hedged plus other positions occasionally held within limits, by the Groups wholesale funding desks in order to minimise overall funding and hedging costs.
The level of risk is low relative to the size of the total balance sheet.
The fall in net interest income sensitivity reflects further structural hedging against margin compression undertaken in 2013, and a revision of the assumptions as to how variable retail savings would reprice in a rising rate scenario.
Insurance portfolios Market risks within the Insurance business are measured using a variety of techniques including stress and scenario testing and, where appropriate, stochastic modelling.
Current and potential future market risk exposures are assessed and aggregated using a range of stresses and risk measures including 1-in-200 year stresses for Insurances Individual Capital Assessment ICA and alternative stresses for profit before tax and other measures.
The effect of changes in key assumptions including sensitivities to the risk-free rate, equity investment volatility, widening of credit spreads on corporate bonds and an increase in illiquidity premia, as applied to profit before tax and equity are set out in note 37.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 168 169 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Mitigation Various mitigation activities are undertaken across the Group to manage portfolios and seek to ensure they remain within approved limits.
Defined benefit pension schemes The Group takes an active involvement in agreeing risk management and mitigation strategies with the Trustees of the schemes through whom any such activity must be conducted.
An interest rate hedging programme is in place to reduce liability risk.
The schemes are also reducing equity allocation and investing the proceeds in credit assets as part of a programme to appropriately fide-risk the portfolio.
Trading portfolios and banking activities The Groups policy is to optimise reward whilst managing its interest rate risk exposures within the risk appetite defined by the Board.
For individual banking divisions, simple positional interest rate risk is minimal due to the Group requirement for these businesses to hedge or match fund promptly all open positions directly via the Group Corporate Treasury GCT function.
As defined within the scope of the Group IRRBB Policy, all hedgeable interest rate risk in the non-traded book should be transferred to GCT via the Interest Rate Risk Transfer Pricing ITP framework.
GCT is responsible for managing centralised risk both traded and non-traded and does this through natural offsets of matching assets and liabilities, and appropriate hedging activity of the residual exposures, subject to the authorisation and mandate of Group Asset and liability Committee within the Board Risk Appetite.
Derivative desks in Financial Markets will then externalise the hedges to the market.
However, certain residual interest rate risks may remain outside the centre due to differences in basis and profile mismatches, largely arising from customer behaviour.
Customer facing divisions incur foreign exchange risk in the course of providing services to their customers.
GCT incurs foreign exchange risk through its various debt and capital management programmes.
All non-structural foreign exchange exposures in the non-trading book are transferred to the trading area where they are monitored and controlled within the trading risk appetite and any residual risk is hedged in the market.
Insurance portfolios Investment holdings are diversified across markets and, within markets, across sectors.
Holdings are diversified to minimise specific risk and the relative size of large individual exposures is monitored closely.
For assets held outside unit-linked funds, investments are only permitted in countries and markets which are sufficiently regulated and liquid.
Where considered appropriate, hedges are in place to reduce exposure to market risk, principally equity and interest rate risk, but also foreign currency.
For annuity liabilities the aim is to invest in assets such that the cash flows on investments will match those on the projected future liabilities.
It is not possible to eliminate risk completely as the timing of insured events is uncertain and bonds are not available at all of the required maturities.
As a result, the cash flows cannot be precisely matched and so sensitivity tests are used to test the extent of the mismatch.
Further, in assessing the current value of these future cashflows, it is not always possible to achieve equally resilient levels of matching between the different capital measures that are used to assess regulatory solvency.
Monitoring The Group Asset and liability Committee and the Group Market Risk Committee regularly review high level market risk exposure, as part of the wider risk management framework.
They also make recommendations to the Group Chief executive concerning overall market risk appetite and market risk policy.
exposures at lower levels of delegation are monitored at various intervals according to their volatility, from daily in the case of trading portfolios to monthly or quarterly in the case of less volatile portfolios.
levels of exposures compared to approved limits and triggers are monitored by Risk Division and where appropriate, escalation procedures are in place.
Defined benefit pension schemes In addition to the wider risk management framework, governance of the schemes includes two specialist pensions committees one Group executive sub-committee and a supporting management committee.
under this governance structure, the surplus or deficit in the schemes is tracked on a monthly basis along with various single factor and scenario stresses which consider the assets and liabilities holistically.
Performance against risk appetite limits and triggers is also tracked regularly including an assessment of the impact on Group capital resources.
Hedges in place and asset liability matching positions are also actively monitored.
Trading portfolios and banking activities Trading is restricted to a number of specialist centres, the most important centre being the treasury and trading business in london.
These centres also manage market risk in the wholesale non-trading portfolios, both in the uK and internationally.
The level of exposure is strictly controlled and monitored within approved limits.
Active management of the wholesale portfolios is necessary to meet customer requirements and changing market circumstances.
Market risk in the Groups divisional portfolios and in the Groups capital and funding activities is managed centrally within triggers defined in the Group policy for interest rate risk in the banking book, which is reviewed and approved annually.
Insurance portfolios Ongoing monitoring is in place to track market risks.
This includes monitoring the progression of market risk capital against risk appetite limits, as well as the sensitivity of profit before tax to combined market risk stress scenarios and in year market movements.
Asset liability matching positions and hedges in place are actively monitored and if necessary rebalanced to be within certain tolerances.
In addition market risk is controlled via approved investment policies and mandates.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 168 169 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Operational risk Definition Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events.
The aim of operational risk management is to manage operational risks in line with defined appetites, and to protect both customers and the Group whilst delivering sustainable growth.
The Group Operational Risk framework is the method by which operational risks are managed in terms of setting risk appetite, evaluating key exposures, measuring risk, mitigating risk, and monitoring risks on an ongoing basis, as set out below.
Risk appetite The Groups Operational Risk appetite is designed to safeguard the interests of customers, internal and external stakeholders, and shareholders.
Appetite is expressed through five high level statements summarised below, each of which are defined with limits and triggers approved by the Board, and are regularly monitored by executive and Board risk committees: Customer: The Group builds trust and does not expect its customers to be impacted negatively.
Reputation: The Group manages its external profile effectively.
The Group will manage and mitigate any prominent negative nationwide media coverage.
Financial loss: The Group does not expect to experience cumulative fraud or operational losses above a defined level of budgeted Group income.
Management time and resources: The Group does not expect internal events that divert excessive senior management time from running the business or have extensive impact on colleague time and or morale.
Risk culture: All colleagues are responsible for risk within their individual roles.
The Group sets a strong tone from the top and embraces a risk culture across the business which is aligned to its strategy, vision, values and codes of responsibility.
The Group encourages an open dialogue and rapid escalation of potential threats and events.
Exposures The principal operational risks to the Group are: IT systems and resilience risk arising from failure to develop, deliver and maintain effective IT solutions: Information security risk arising from information leakage, loss or theft: external fraud arising from an act of deception or omission: Cyber risk arising from malicious attacks on the Group via technology, networks and systems: and Risks arising from inadequate customer facing processes, including transactions, processing and information capture.
The risks below also have potential to negatively impact customers and the Groups future results: The sale of TSB may result in disruption of senior managements ability to lead and manage the Group effectively.
In addition, the Group is committed to providing service for TSB, with potential for customer detriment, plus reputational and financial exposure for the Group in the event of any significant issues in maintaining services.
Terrorist acts, other acts of war or hostility, geopolitical, pandemic or other such events and responses to those acts events may create economic and political uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on uK and international macroeconomic conditions generally, and more specifically on the Groups results of operations, financial condition or prospects in ways that cannot necessarily be predicted.
Systems and procedures in place to comply with increasingly complex and detailed anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations may not always be fully effective in preventing third parties from using the Group as a conduit for money laundering.
Should the Group be associated with money laundering, its reputation could suffer and or it could become subject to fines, sanctions and legal enforcement: any one of which could have a material adverse effect on operating results, financial condition and prospects.
Measurement Operational risk is managed within a Board approved framework and risk appetite, as set out above.
A variety of measures are used such as: scoring of potential risks, using impact and likelihood, with impact thresholds aligned to the risk appetite statements above: assessment of the effectiveness of controls: monitoring of events and losses by size, business unit and internal risk categories.
In 2013, the highest frequency of events occurred in external fraud 61.96 per cent and execution, delivery and process management 24.58 per cent.
Clients, products and business practices accounted for 39.66 per cent of losses.
execution, delivery and process management accounted for 38.64 per cent of losses.
losses in both categories are driven by legacy issues excluding PPI.
The table overleaf shows high level loss and event trends using Basel II categories.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 170 171 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Table 1.31: Operational risk events by risk category % of total volume % of total losses 2013 2012 2013 2012 Business disruption and system failures 0.92 1.08 0.86 1.46 Clients, products and business practices 11.02 15.27 39.66 58.65 Damage to physical assets 0.81 0.32 0.45 0.24 employee practices and workplace safety 0.61 0.14 0.36 0.10 execution, delivery and process management 24.58 24.90 38.64 27.19 external fraud 61.96 58.02 20.01 11.99 Internal fraud 0.10 0.27 0.02 0.37 Total 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 Operational risk exposure and actual losses are used by the Group to calculate the appropriate holding of operational risk regulatory capital under the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
The Group calculates its operational risk capital requirements using the Standardised Approach TSA, which the Basel Committee states as being appropriate for an internationally active bank.
Mitigation The Groups control environment receives regular review and investment, with reporting on the material risks discussed monthly by senior management.
Risks are managed via a range of strategies avoidance, mitigation, transfer including insurance, and acceptance, and contingency plans maintained for a range of potential scenarios with a regime of regular disaster recovery exercises, both Group specific and industry wide.
Mitigating actions for the principal risks above include: The Group completed a strategic review in 2013, focused on IT resilience the ability of IT systems to resist and or recover from failure.
Actions from the review include implementation of a new Group-wide risk appetite for IT service and availability based on the processes most time-critical to its customers, or to manage the Group.
Strategic enhancements and investment are in plan over the next three years to reflect enhanced demands on IT both in terms of customer and regulator expectations.
The Group has, and will continue to, invest in enhanced protection of customer information, including access to key systems and the security, durability and accessibility of critical records.
The Group adopts a risk based approach to mitigate the external fraud risks it faces, reflecting the current and emerging external fraud risks within the market.
This approach drives an annual programme of enhancements to the Groups technology, process and people related controls, with an emphasis on preventative controls supported by real time detective controls wherever feasible.
Through Group-wide policies and operational control frameworks, the Group has developed a robust fraud operating model with centralised accountability.
The Groups fraud awareness programme is a key component of its fraud control environment.
Significant investment has been made in increasing the Groups cyber defence, for example through the IT Security Improvement Programme, to protect customers and the Groups infrastructure.
The Group continues to place appropriate and significant focus on improving customer processing by remediating known issues and addressing root cause through its rectification programmes, and seeking to improve the overall servicing environment in key areas through the Simplification programme.
In addition, incident management capability has been revised and enhanced to increase speed of response to customer impacting incidents.
The level and impact of change involved in the sale of TSB is managed via robust change management governance and a consolidated strategic change plan.
There are separate governance arrangements in place to oversee the impacts of the divestment on the retained business customers, operations and controls.
Operational resilience measures and recovery planning defined in the Groups Business Continuity Management policy ensure an appropriate and consistent approach to the management of continuity risks, including potential interruptions from a range of internal and external incidents or threats including environmental and climatic issues, terrorism, economic instability, pandemic planning and operational incidents.
The Group has adopted policies and procedures to detect and prevent the use of its banking network for money laundering and related activities, and it regularly reviews and assesses these to keep them current and effective.
These activities include know-your-customer requirements, training and awareness, transaction monitoring technologies and reporting of suspicions of money laundering to the applicable regulatory authorities.
Monitoring Monitoring and reporting is undertaken at Board, Group and business area committees, in accordance with delegated limits of authority which are regularly reviewed and refreshed.
Business unit risk exposure is aggregated and discussed at the monthly Group Operational Risk Committee, and matters are escalated to the Chief Risk Officer, or higher committees, if appropriate.
A combination of systems, monthly reports from business areas, and oversight and challenge from the Risk Division: audit: and assurance teams ensures that key risks are regularly presented and debated by an executive audience.
The Group maintains a formal approach to operational risk event escalation, whereby material events are identified, captured and escalated.
Root causes of events are determined and action plans put in place to ensure an optimum level of control to keep customers and the business safe, reduce costs, and improve efficiency.
The insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with recommendations being made to the Groups senior management annually prior to each renewal.
Insurers are monitored on an ongoing basis, to ensure counterparty risk is minimised.
A process is in place to manage any insurer rating changes or insolvencies.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 170 171 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Funding and liquidity risk Definition Funding risk is defined as the risk that the Group does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources of funding or the funding structure is inefficient.
liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its commitments as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
Risk appetite Funding and liquidity risk appetite for the banking business is set, reviewed and approved annually by the Board with the support of the Group Asset and liability Committee GAlCO.
Funding and liquidity risk is managed separately for the banking and Insurance businesses.
Risk is reported against appetite through various metrics that enable the Group to manage liquidity and funding constraints.
The Group Chief executive, assisted by GAlCO, regularly reviews performance against risk appetite.
Exposure liquidity exposure represents the amount of potential stressed outflows in any future period less expected inflows.
liquidity is considered from both an internal and a regulatory perspective.
Measurement A series of measures are used across the Group to monitor both short and long-term liquidity including: ratios, cash outflow triggers, wholesale funding maturity profile, early warning indicators and stress test survival period triggers.
The Board approved liquidity risk appetite covers a range of metrics considered key to maintaining a strong liquidity and funding position, with regular reporting to GAlCO and the Board.
Strict criteria and limits are in place to ensure highly liquid marketable securities are available as part of the portfolio of liquid assets.
Details of contractual maturities for assets and liabilities form an important source of information for the management of liquidity risk.
note 54 on page 327 sets out an analysis of assets and liabilities by relevant maturity grouping.
In order to reflect more accurately the expected behaviour of the Groups assets and liabilities, measurement and modelling of the behavioural aspects of each is constructed.
Divisional teams form a view of customer behaviour based on quantitative and qualitative analysis and these assumptions are subject to governance via divisional asset and liability committees.
This also forms the foundation of the Groups liquidity Transfer Pricing lTP and the liquidity risk stress testing framework on which the Groups liquidity controls are based.
Mitigation The Group mitigates the risk of a liquidity mismatch in excess of its risk appetite by managing the liquidity profile of the balance sheet through short-term liquidity management and through the life of the funding plan.
Short-term liquidity management is considered from two perspectives: business as usual and liquidity under stressed conditions, both of which relate to funding in the less than one year time horizon.
The Group manages its risk appetite and liquidity position as a coverage ratio proportion of stressed outflows covered by primary liquid assets rather than by reference to a quantum of liquid assets: this corresponds with the PRA and CRD IV liquidity requirements.
longer term funding is used to manage the Groups strategic liquidity profile which is determined by the Groups balance sheet structure.
longer term is defined as having an original maturity of more than one year.
The Groups funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its significant customer deposit base, and is supported by strong relationships with corporate customers and certain wholesale market segments to supplement its retail deposit base.
A substantial proportion of the retail deposit base is made up of customers current and savings accounts which, although mostly repayable on demand, have traditionally in aggregate provided a stable source of funding.
Additionally, the Group accesses the short-term wholesale markets to raise interbank deposits and to issue certificates of deposit and commercial paper to meet short-term obligations.
Funding concentration by counterparty is not considered significant for the Group.
Where concentrations do exist for example, maturity profile : these are limited by the internal risk appetite and considered manageable.
To assist in managing the balance sheet the Group operates a lTP Policy which: Allocates relevant interest expenses from GCT to the Groups banking businesses within the internal management accounts in a manner consistent with the Group Funding and liquidity Policy: Helps drive the correct inputs to customer pricing and supports the overall Group balance sheet strategy: and Is consistent with regulatory requirements.
Relevant interest expenses allocated via lTP include term funding spreads incurred over a three month lIBOR benchmark and the cost of funding and holding liquid asset reserves.
lTP makes extensive use of behavioural maturity profiles, taking account of expected customer loan prepayments and stability of customer deposits.
Such behavioural maturity assumptions are subject to formal governance, reviewed at least annually, and founded on analysis and evidence of actual customer behaviour using historical data gathered over several years.
The ability to deploy assets quickly, either through the repo market or through outright sale, is also an important source of liquidity for the Groups banking businesses.
In addition to central bank reserves, the Group holds sizeable balances of high grade marketable debt securities as set out in table 1.34 which can be sold to provide, or used to secure, additional cash inflows should the need arise from either market counterparties or central bank facilities Bank of england, european Central Bank and Federal Reserve.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 172 173 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT liquidity risk within the Insurance business may result from the inability to sell financial assets quickly at their fair values: or from an insurance liability falling due for payment earlier than expected: or from the inability to generate cash inflows as anticipated.
The shareholder lloyds Banking Group is exposed to liquidity risk through the shareholder business.
This is predominantly the annuity portfolio, where the aim is to invest in assets such that the cash flows on investments will match those on the projected future liabilities.
unit-linked and with-profits funds are normally expected to meet their own liquidity obligations.
The shareholders exposure to liquidity risk is actively managed and monitored within Insurance to ensure that, even under stress conditions, Insurance has sufficient liquidity as required to meet its obligations and remains within approved risk appetite.
In addition, liquidity risk is controlled via approved funding and liquidity policies.
Monitoring liquidity is actively monitored at Group level.
Routine reporting is in place to senior management and through the Groups committee structure, in particular GAlCO which meets monthly.
In a stress situation the level of monitoring and reporting is increased commensurate with the nature of the stress event.
liquidity policies and procedures are subject to independent internal oversight.
Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address internal and regulatory liquidity requirements.
The Group monitors a range of market and internal early warning indicators on a daily basis for early signs of liquidity risk in the market or specific to the Group.
These are a mixture of quantitative and qualitative measures including daily variation of customer balances, changes in maturity profiles, cash outflows, funding concentration, changes in primary liquidity portfolio, credit default swap CDS spreads and changing funding costs.
In addition, the monitoring framework has two other important components: Firstly, the Group carries out stress testing of its liquidity and potential cash flow mismatch position over both short up to two weeks and longer term up to three months horizons against a range of scenarios, including those prescribed by the PRA, the idiosyncratic, market wide and combined stresses and the Groups own scenarios reflecting possible future liquidity risks.
The Groups scenarios cover uS market disruption, market counterparty failure, uK sovereign rating downgrade and a eurozone stress.
The key risk driver assumptions applied to the scenarios are: Liquidity risk driver Market wide and Group specific stresses Wholesale funding Outflows calculated based on contractual maturity of wholesale funding with limited roll over Marketable asset Haircut widening and repos assumed not to roll on contractual maturity Retail and commercial funding Substantial outflows on customer deposit base Intra-day liquidity liquidity required for clearing and payment systems under stressed conditions Intra group liquidity Requirements from the stressed position of subsidiaries Off balance sheet Stressed cash outflows from commitments granted.
Specifically, commitments granted include the pipeline of new business awaiting completion as well as other standby or revolving credit facilities Downgrade Contractual outflows resulting from short and long-term rating downgrades Franchise viability Actions that need to be taken to maintain the Groups core business franchise and reputation The scenarios and the assumptions are reviewed at least annually to gain assurance that they continue to be relevant to the nature of the business.
The Groups liquidity risk appetite is calibrated against a number of stressed liquidity metrics.
liquidity stress tests are applied to the Groups funding plan to project possible future stressed positions.
The funding plan is also stressed against a range of macroeconomic scenarios, including those prescribed by the PRA under the Pillar II anchor scenario.
The Group also applies its own macroeconomic stress scenarios, including a one in 20 year recession.
Secondly, the Group maintains a Contingency Funding Plan which is designed to identify emerging liquidity concerns at an early stage, so that mitigating actions can be taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
Contingency Funding Plan invocation and escalation processes are based on analysis of five major quantitative and qualitative components, comprising assessment of: early warning indicators, prudential and regulatory liquidity risk limits and triggers, stress testing results, event and systemic indicators and market intelligence.
For further information on the Groups 2013 stress testing results refer to page 177.
The planned introduction of the liquidity Coverage Ratio lCR minimum requirement will begin at 60 per cent in January 2015 rising in equal annual steps of 10 per cent to reach 100 per cent in January 2019 and the net Stable Funding Ratio nSFR 100 per cent minimum requirement in January 2018 contained within CRD IV are intended to raise the resilience of banks to potential liquidity shocks and provide the basis for a harmonised approach to liquidity risk management.
The Group has invested considerable resource to ensure that it satisfies the governance, reporting and stress testing requirements of the PRAs Individual liquidity Adequacy Standards liquidity regime and will satisfy the lCR and nSFR requirements.
The Groups lCR and nSFR position is monitored and forecast.
The Group notes the recommendation of the Financial Policy Committee on 18 June 2013 that, for uK banks, the minimum lCR requirement should be set at 80 per cent until 1 January 2015, rising thereafter to reach an lCR requirement of 100 per cent on 1 January 2018.
During the year, the individual entities within the Group, and the Group, complied with all of the external regulatory liquidity and funding requirements to which they are subject and expects to meet all future liquidity regulatory requirements as implemented by the PRA.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 172 173 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Funding and liquidity management in 2013 The transformation of the Group funding position has been substantially completed.
The continued run down of the non-core asset portfolios and the growth in customer deposits has strengthened the Groups funding position and reduced exposure to wholesale funding.
The Group is now in a position where the core loan book is fully funded by core deposits core loan to deposit ratio 100 per cent.
This strong funding position has enabled the Group to undertake a number of funding related actions during the course of the year.
In May 2013 the Group repaid in full the remaining e3.5 billion of outstanding long Term Refinancing Operation lTRO funding from the european Central Bank having earlier repaid e10 billion in February 2013.
In addition to this, during 2013, the Group repaid other term funding totalling 12.6 billion early.
In 2009 the Group entered into a number of eu State aid related obligations, one of which was reductions in certain parts of its balance sheet by the end of 2014.
The Group achieved the asset reduction commitment ahead of the mandated completion date and has received formal confirmation that it has been released from this commitment from the european Commission.
Market conditions continued to improve during 2013 along with investor confidence in the uK economy.
The Group has experienced reduced term issuance costs and spreads on outstanding issuance have remained significantly narrower than previous years.
As well as improved market conditions, rating changes for the Group were positive.
A report from Standard & Poors published on 3 December 2013 affirmed the lloyds Bank A A-1 long short-term rating and revised upwards the stand alone rating from bbb to bbb.
The ratings action was reflective of, in the opinion of Standard & Poors, a strengthened capital position and stronger prospects for lloyds Banks statutory earnings.
The combination of a strong balance sheet and access to a wide range of funding markets, including government schemes, provides the Group with a broad range of options with respect to funding the balance sheet in the future.
Group funding sources Total funded assets reduced by 28.5 billion to 510.2 billion.
This reduction enabled the Group to make changes in wholesale funding which reduced by 32.0 billion to 137.6 billion, with the volume with a residual maturity less than one year reducing to 44.2 billion 50.6 billion at 31 December 2012.
The Groups term funding ratio wholesale funding with a remaining life of over one year as a percentage of total wholesale funding reduced to 68 per cent 70 per cent at 31 December 2012 as expected in line with maturities of wholesale term funding and limited term wholesale issuance in 2013.
The Group core loan to deposit ratio improved to 100 per cent from 101 per cent at 31 December 2012.
The Group loan to deposit ratio has improved to 113 per cent compared with 121 per cent at 31 December 2012, driven by strong deposit growth and non-core asset reduction.
excluding reverse repos and repos, loans and advances to customers reduced by 16.9 billion, customer deposits increased by 15.8 billion, and there was a continued reduction in non-core assets 31 December 2013: 63.5 billion: 31 December 2012: 98.4 billion.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 174 175 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Table 1.32: Group funding position audited 1 2013 2012 Change bn bn % Funding requirement 2 loans and advances to customers 495.2 512.1 3 3 loans and advances to banks 5.1 12.5 59 Debt securities 1.4 5.3 74 Reverse repurchase agreements 0.2 4 Available-for-sale financial assets secondary 4.4 5.3 17 5 Cash balances 3.9 3.5 11 Funded assets 510.2 538.7 5 6 Other assets 248.6 302.2 18 758.8 840.9 10 7 On balance sheet primary liquidity assets Reverse repurchase agreements 0.1 5.8 98 5 Balances at central banks primary 46.0 76.8 40 Available-for-sale financial assets primary 39.6 26.1 52 Trading and fair value through profit and loss 3.1 9.4 Repurchase agreements 0.6 5.9 90 88.2 93.4 6 Total Group assets 847.0 934.3 9 6 less: Other liabilities 227.5 277.8 18 Funding requirement 619.5 656.5 6 Funded by 8 Customer deposits 438.3 422.5 4 9 Wholesale funding 137.6 169.6 19 575.9 592.1 3 Repurchase agreements 4.3 21.8 80 Total equity 39.3 42.6 8 Total funding 619.5 656.5 6 1 Restated to reflect the implementation of IAS 19R and IFRS 10.
2 excludes 0.1 billion 31 December 2012: 5.1 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
3 excludes 20.1 billion 31 December 2012: 19.6 billion of loans and advances to banks within the Insurance business and 0.2 billion 31 December 2012: 0.7 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
4 Secondary liquidity assets comprise a diversified pool of highly rated unencumbered collateral including retained issuance.
5 Cash balances and balances at central banks primary are combined in the Groups balance sheet.
6 Other assets and other liabilities primarily include balances in the Groups Insurance business and the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities.
7 Primary liquidity assets are PRA eligible liquid assets including uK Gilts, uS Treasuries, euro AAA government debt and unencumbered cash balances held at central banks.
8 excluding repurchase agreements of 3.0 billion 31 December 2012: 4.4 billion.
9 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 174 175 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Table 1.33: Reconciliation of Group funding figure to the balance sheet audited Included in Fair value funding and other analysis accounting Balance above Repos methods sheet bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2013 Deposits from banks 12.1 1.9 14.0 Debt securities in issue 91.6 4.5 87.1 Subordinated liabilities 33.9 1.6 32.3 Total wholesale funding 137.6 1.9 Customer deposits 438.3 3.0 441.3 Total 575.9 4.9 1 At 31 December 2012 Deposits from banks 15.1 23.3 38.4 Debt securities in issue 120.4 3.1 117.3 Subordinated liabilities 34.1 34.1 Total wholesale funding 169.6 23.3 Customer deposits 422.5 4.4 426.9 Total 592.1 27.7 1 Restated to reflect the implementation of IAS 19R and IFRS 10.
Total wholesale funding by type and expected residual maturity is detailed below.
2 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 176 177 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Table 1.35: Total wholesale funding by currency audited Sterling US dollar Euro Other currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2013 44.4 36.1 48.7 8.4 137.6 At 31 December 2012 54.3 41.6 60.2 13.5 169.6 Table 1.36: Analysis of 2013 term issuance audited Sterling US dollar Euro Other currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn Securitisation 0.5 0.5 Medium-term notes 0.6 1.3 1.9 1 Private placements 0.1 0.4 1.3 0.1 1.9 Total issuance 0.1 1.5 2.6 0.1 4.3 1 Private placements include structured bonds and term repurchase agreements repos.
Term issuance for 2013 totalled 4.3 billion with the majority across medium-term notes and private placements.
utilisation of the uK governments Funding for lending Scheme FlS has further underlined the Groups support to the uK economic recovery, and the Group remains committed to passing the benefits of this low cost funding on to its customers.
The Group drew down 3.0 billion in 2012 and 5.0 billion in 2013 under the FlS scheme.
A further 2.2 billion was drawn in January 2014, which under FlS rules, counts as funding from the 2013 scheme capacity.
Encumbered assets The Board monitors and manages total balance sheet encumbrance via a risk appetite metric.
During 2013 the Group had term issuance of 0.5 billion from securitisations and no issuance from covered bonds.
Maturities have led to a reduction in externally held notes from residential mortgage backed securitisation and covered bond issuance.
The table below summarises the assets encumbered through the Groups external issuance transactions.
Table 1.37: Secured external issuance transactions Assets 3 Notes issued encumbered bn bn At 31 December 2013 1 Securitisations 18.6 31.6 2 Covered bonds 30.7 49.6 Total 49.3 81.2 At 31 December 2012 1 Securitisations 28.0 46.3 2 Covered bonds 40.7 56.9 Total 68.7 103.2 1 In addition the Group retained internally 38.3 billion 31 December 2012: 58.7 billion of notes secured with 49.3 billion 31 December 2012: 71.9 billion of assets.
2 In addition the Group retained internally 7.6 billion 31 December 2012: 26.3 billion of notes secured with 12.5 billion 31 December 2012: 37.5 billion of assets.
3 Pro-rated by programme 31 December 2012 number restated on this basis.
Total notes issued externally from secured programmes asset backed securities and covered bonds have fallen from 68.7 billion assets encumbered 103.2 billion, pro-rated by programme at 31 December 2012 to 49.3 billion assets encumbered 81.2 billion, pro-rated by programme.
A total of 45.9 billion 31 December 2012: 85.0 billion of notes issued under securitisation and covered bond programmes have also been retained internally, most of which are held to provide a pool of collateral eligible for use at central bank liquidity facilities.
This reduction in retained notes partially reflects the Groups increased use of whole loans as eligible collateral at central banks.
The Group uses secured transactions to manage short-term cash and collateral needs.
Further details on repo and collateral pledges are available in note 54: Financial risk management.
Internally held notes, encumbered through repo activity or assets pledged, are included in these disclosure amounts.
Details on the assets within asset-backed commercial paper ABCP conduits are available in note 22: Structured entities.
Liquidity portfolio At 31 December 2013, the Group had 89.3 billion 2012: 87.6 billion of highly liquid unencumbered assets in its primary liquidity portfolio which are available to meet cash and collateral outflows and PRA regulatory requirements, as illustrated in the table overleaf.
In addition the Group had 105.4 billion 2012: 117.1 billion of secondary liquidity which is eligible for use in a range of central bank or similar facilities.
This liquidity is managed as a single pool in the centre and is under the control of the function charged with managing the liquidity of the Group.
It is available for deployment at immediate notice, subject to complying with regulatory requirements, and is a key component of the Groups liquidity management process.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 176 177 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Table 1.38: Liquidity portfolio Average Average 2013 2012 2013 2012 Primary liquidity bn bn bn bn Central bank cash deposits 46.0 76.8 69.4 78.3 Government bonds 43.3 10.8 28.2 21.1 Total 89.3 87.6 97.6 99.4 Average Average 2013 2012 2013 2012 Secondary liquidity bn bn bn bn 1 High-quality ABS covered bonds 1.4 2.8 2.0 2.1 1 Credit institution bonds 0.4 3.4 1.2 2.8 1 Corporate bonds 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Own securities retained issuance 22.1 44.9 33.3 50.2 Other securities 4.3 5.0 4.8 8.3 2 Other 77.1 60.9 75.2 49.8 Total 105.4 117.1 116.6 113.3 Total liquidity 194.7 204.7 1 Assets rated Aor above.
2 Includes other central bank eligible assets.
Table 1.39: Liquidity portfolio: currency Other Sterling US Dollar Euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2013 Primary liquidity 65.3 13.3 10.5 0.2 89.3 Secondary liquidity 100.4 0.8 4.0 0.2 105.4 Total 165.7 14.1 14.5 0.4 194.7 At 31 December 2012 Primary liquidity 42.2 7.2 36.5 1.7 87.6 Secondary liquidity 109.2 1.6 4.7 1.6 117.1 Total 151.4 8.8 41.2 3.3 204.7 Primary liquid assets of 89.3 billion represent approximately 4.2 times 3.5 times at 31 December 2012 the Groups money market funding less than one year maturity excluding derivative collateral margins and settlement accounts and are approximately 2.0 times 1.7 times at 31 December 2012 all wholesale funding less than one year maturity, and thus provides a substantial buffer in the event of continued market dislocation.
In addition to primary liquidity holdings the Group has significant secondary liquidity holdings providing access to liquidity facilities at a number of central banks which the Group routinely makes use of as part of its normal liquidity management practices.
Future use of such facilities will be based on prudent liquidity management and economic considerations, having regard for external market conditions.
The Group considers diversification across geography, currency, markets and tenor when assessing appropriate holdings of primary and secondary liquid assets and expects to see some transition from primary to secondary assets over the course of 2014.
The Group notes that the liquidity Coverage Ratio lCR will become the Pillar I standard for liquidity in the uK in 2015, and that the PRA has the ability to impose firm specific liquidity requirements.
The european Commission is to adopt further legislation by 30 June 2014 to specify the definition, calibration, calculation and phase-in of the lCR for implementation in 2015.
The Group expects to meet the new requirements ahead of the implementation dates.
Stress testing results Internal stress testing results at 31 December 2013 show that the Group has liquidity resources representing 130.9 per cent of modelled outflows from all wholesale funding sources, retail and corporate deposits, intra-day requirements and rating dependent contracts under the Groups most severe liquidity stress scenario the three month PRA combined scenario.
The Groups stress testing assumes that further credit rating downgrades may reduce investor appetite for some of the Groups liability classes and therefore funding capacity.
A hypothetical idiosyncratic two notch downgrade of the Groups current long-term debt rating and accompanying short-term downgrade implemented instantaneously by all major rating agencies, could result in an outflow of 6.6 billion of cash over a period of up to one year, 3.0 billion of collateral posting related to customer financial contracts and 11.8 billion of collateral posting associated with secured funding.
The Groups internal liquidity risk appetite includes such a stress scenario.
The stress scenario modelling demonstrates the Group has available liquidity resources to manage such an event.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 178 179 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Capital risk Definition Capital risk is defined as the risk that the Group has a sub-optimal amount or quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently deployed across the Group.
Risk appetite Capital risk appetite is set by the Board, reflecting the Groups strategic plans, regulatory capital constraints and market expectations.
It includes a number of minimum capital ratios in normal and stressed conditions as well as a specific measure for the Insurance business, set by the Insurance Board, taking account of the need to maintain regulatory solvency including appropriate management buffers.
The Board and the Group Chief executive, assisted by the Group Asset and liability Committee and the Group Risk Committee, regularly review performance against the risk appetite.
A key metric is the Groups common equity tier 1 CeT1 capital ratio which the Group currently aims to maintain in excess of 10 per cent.
Exposure A capital exposure arises where the Group has insufficient capital resources to support its strategic objectives and plans, and to meet external stakeholder requirements and expectations.
The Groups capital management approach is focused on maintaining sufficient capital resources to prevent such exposures while optimising value for shareholders.
Measurement The Group measures the amount of capital it holds using the regulatory framework.
From 1 January 2014 this included the new Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation CRD IV as implemented in the uK by the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA policy statement PS7 13.
Prior to this date, and for the purposes of determining the Groups capital resources and requirements at 31 December 2013, these have been based upon the modified Basel II framework as implemented by the PRA.
The regulatory minimum amounts of capital, under Pillar I of the Basel framework, are determined as percentages of the aggregate risk-weighted assets calculated in respect of credit risk, counterparty credit risk, operational risk and market risk Trading Book, which are predominantly calculated using internal models that are prudently calibrated based on internal loss experience.
The models are subject to a number of internal controls and external scrutiny from the PRA.
The minimum requirement for total capital is supplemented, under Pillar II of the regulatory framework, through the issuance of bank specific Individual Capital Guidance ICG which adjusts the Pillar I minimum for those risks not covered or not fully covered under Pillar I.
A key input into the PRAs ICG setting process is a banks own assessment of the amount of capital it needs, a process known as the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
The Group has been set specific ICG by the PRA and maintains capital at a level which exceeds this requirement.
From 1 January 2015, at least 56 per cent of the ICG must be covered by CeT1 capital and at least 75 per cent must be covered by tier 1 capital.
As part of the capital planning process, capital positions are subjected to extensive stress analysis to determine the adequacy of the Groups capital resources against the minimum requirements, including ICG, over the forecast period.
The outputs from some of these stress analyses are used by the PRA to set a Capital Planning Buffer CPB for the Group.
This comprises a minimum level of capital buffers over and above the minimum regulatory requirements that should be maintained in non-stressed conditions as mitigation against potential future periods of stress.
The PRA requires the ICG and the CPB to remain confidential between the Group and the PRA.
Mitigation The Group has a capital management framework including policies and procedures that are designed to ensure that it operates within its risk appetite, continues to comply with regulatory requirements and is positioned to meet anticipated future changes to its capital requirements.
The Group is able to accumulate additional capital through profit retention, by raising equity via, for example, a rights issue or debt exchange and by raising tier 1 and tier 2 capital by issuing subordinated liabilities.
The cost and availability of additional capital is dependent upon market conditions and perceptions at the time.
The Group is also able to manage the demand for capital through management actions including adjusting its lending strategy, risk hedging strategies and through business disposals.
If necessary, this can include limiting new business.
Additional measures to manage the Groups capital position include seeking to strike an appropriate balance of capital held within its insurance and banking subsidiaries and through improving the quality of its capital through liability management exercises.
Monitoring Capital is actively managed and regulatory ratios are a key factor in the Groups planning processes and stress analyses.
Five year forecasts of the Groups capital position, based upon the Groups operating plan, are produced at least annually to inform the Groups capital strategy whilst shorter term forecasts are more frequently undertaken to understand and respond to variations of the Groups actual performance against the plan.
The capital plans are tested for capital adequacy using a range of stress scenarios covering adverse economic conditions as well as other adverse factors that could impact the Group and the Group maintains a Recovery Plan which sets out a range of potential mitigating actions that could be taken in response to a stress.
Capital policies and procedures are subject to independent oversight.
Regular reporting of actual and projected ratios, including those in stressed scenarios, is undertaken, including submissions to the Group Asset and liability Committee, the Group Risk Committee, Board Risk Committee and the Board.
The regulatory framework within which the Group operates continues to be enhanced as part of the global banking reforms.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 178 179 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Over the course of 2013 there have been significant regulatory developments in the area of capital and the related management.
The principal changes relate to the finalisation of CRD IV and subsequent consultation and finalisation of PRA requirements for their implementation in the uK and the 2013 announcement that major uK banks are expected to meet specific targets on an adjusted basis for CeT1 and leverage ratios.
The Group notes the final statements from the PRA on the implementation of capital requirements in the uK and will continue to work with the regulator to ensure that the Group continues to meet the regulators capital expectations.
The Group continuously evaluates the efficiency of its capital structure, management of which may result in significant one-off charges or gains, and its capital structures alignment with the regulatory framework.
With the adoption of CRD IV, the Group is considering opportunities to raise new Additional tier 1 securities which would rank senior to ordinary shares, and be automatically convertible into ordinary shares if the Groups common equity tier 1 ratio fell below a specified trigger point.
Beyond CRD IV there have been a number of draft technical standards issued for consultation which relate to both capital and leverage and both Basel and european regulatory bodies continue to develop their thinking on both capital resources and capital requirement measures.
Within the uK the PRA have been active in requiring enhanced capital standards and encouraging further disclosure developments and HM Treasury have been consulting on practical aspects of the application of a counter cyclical buffer.
The Group monitors these developments very closely, participating actively in the regulatory consultation processes and analysing the potential financial impacts to ensure that the Group continues to have a strong loss absorption capacity that exceeds the regulatory requirements and the Groups risk appetite and is consistent with market expectations.
Capital management in 2013 The Group made significant progress in further strengthening its capital position in 2013 through its strongly capital generative strategy, including capital-efficient profit generation in the core business, the release of capital through non-core asset disposals and the successful delivery of management actions.
Core tier 1 ratio, based on the capital regulations as at 31 December 2013, increased 2.0 percentage points from 12.0 per cent to 14.0 per cent.
Pro forma fully loaded CeT1 ratio under the CRD IV rules increased 2.2 percentage points from 8.1 per cent to 10.3 per cent whilst the ratio excluding pro forma impacts increased to 10.0 per cent.
Pro forma fully loaded CRD IV leverage ratio including tier 1 instruments was 4.1 per cent and was 3.4 per cent when including only CeT1 capital resources.
excluding the pro forma impacts, the fully loaded ratio including tier 1 instruments was 4.0 per cent and 3.4 per cent when including only CeT1 capital resources.
under the January 2014 revised Basel III leverage ratio framework, the Groups fully loaded leverage ratio is estimated to improve significantly to 4.5 per cent on a pro forma basis including tier 1 instruments, and 3.8 per cent including only CeT1 capital resources.
Capital position at 31 December 2013 The Groups capital position applying prevailing rules as at 31 December 2013 is set out in the following section.
Additionally, information about the Groups capital position on a CRD IV basis is set out on page 183.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 180 181 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Table 1.40: Capital resources audited 2 2013 2012 Capital resources m m Core tier 1 Shareholders equity per balance sheet 38,989 43,999 non-controlling interests per balance sheet 347 685 Regulatory adjustments: Regulatory adjustments to non-controlling interests 315 628 Adjustment for own credit 185 217 Defined benefit pension adjustment 78 1,438 unrealised reserve on available-for-sale debt securities 750 343 unrealised reserve on available-for-sale equity investments 135 56 Cash flow hedging reserve 1,055 350 Other items 452 33 41,250 42,119 Less: deductions from core tier 1 Goodwill 2,016 2,016 Intangible assets 1,799 2,091 50 per cent excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 373 636 50 per cent of securitisation positions 71 183 Core tier 1 capital 36,991 37,193 1 non-controlling preference shares 1,060 1,568 1 Preferred securities 3,982 4,039 Less: deductions from tier 1 50 per cent of material holdings 3,859 46 Total tier 1 capital 38,174 42,754 Tier 2 undated subordinated debt 1,825 1,828 Dated subordinated debt 18,567 19,886 unrealised gains on available-for-sale equity investments provisions 135 56 eligible provisions 359 977 Less: deductions from tier 2 50 per cent excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 373 636 50 per cent of securitisation positions 71 183 50 per cent of material holdings 3,859 46 Total tier 2 capital 16,583 21,882 Supervisory deductions unconsolidated investments life 10,104 general insurance and other 929 Total supervisory deductions 11,033 Total capital resources 54,757 53,603 1 Covered by existing grandfathering provisions.
2 31 December 2012 comparatives have not been restated to reflect the implementation of IAS 19R and IFRS 10.
Table 1.41: Risk-weighted assets and capital ratios 1 2013 2012 m m Risk-weighted assets 263,850 310,299 Core tier 1 capital ratio 14.0% 12.0% Tier 1 capital ratio 14.5% 13.8% Total capital ratio 20.8% 17.3% 1 31 December 2012 comparatives have not been restated to reflect the implementation of IAS 19R and IFRS 10.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 180 181 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 The movements in core tier 1, tier 1, tier 2 and total capital in the period are shown below: Table 1.42: Movements in capital Supervisory Total Core tier 1 Tier 1 Tier 2 deductions Capital m m m m m 1 At 31 December 2012 37,193 5,561 21,882 11,033 53,603 loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 838 838 Share issuance 510 510 Pension movements: 2 Implementation of IAS 19R 1,258 1,258 Deduction of pension asset 515 515 Movement through other comprehensive income 108 108 Goodwill and intangible assets deductions 292 292 excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 263 263 526 Change in treatment of material holdings 5,517 5,516 11,033 Material holdings deduction 1,704 1,703 3,407 eligible provisions 618 618 Subordinated debt movements: Foreign exchange 40 98 138 new issuances Repurchases, redemptions, amortisation and other 605 1,420 2,025 Other movements 422 191 613 At 31 December 2013 36,991 1,183 16,583 54,757 1 31 December 2012 comparatives have not been restated to reflect the implementation of IAS 19R and IFRS 10.
2 Includes the impact to other comprehensive income and movement in the retirement benefit asset.
Core tier 1 capital resources have decreased by 202 million in the period largely driven by movements relating to defined benefit pension schemes and attributable loss, partially offset by share issuances and reductions in excess expected losses and intangible assets.
The movements relating to pension schemes primarily reflect the impact of the adoption of amendments to IAS 19, whereby valuation impacts relating to Group defined benefit schemes flow through other comprehensive income, partially offset by a reduction in the regulatory deduction of the defined benefit pension scheme asset.
Tier 1 and tier 2 capital resources have reduced primarily due to the reallocation of unconsolidated investments in life and General Insurance businesses, which were previously deducted as supervisory deductions from total capital, to become deductions from tier 1 capital 50 per cent of the total and tier 2 capital also 50 per cent.
The material holdings deduction from capital, predominantly relating to the Groups investment in its Insurance businesses, has reduced by 3,407 million during the period reflecting payment by the Insurance businesses to the banking group of dividends totalling 2,155 million, elements of the Groups subordinated debt holdings in the Insurance business that have been repaid following the issuance of external subordinated debt in the period and the disposal of the Groups holding in St. Jamess Place.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 182 183 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Table 1.43: Risk-weighted assets 2013 2012 Risk-weighted assets m m Divisional analysis of risk-weighted assets: Retail 85,677 95,470 Commercial Banking 138,541 165,209 Wealth, Asset Finance and International 25,886 36,167 Group Operations and Central items 13,746 13,453 263,850 310,299 Risk type analysis of risk-weighted assets: Foundation Internal Ratings Based IRB approach 82,870 80,612 Retail IRB approach 85,139 91,445 Other IRB approach 9,221 12,396 IRB approach 177,230 184,453 Standardised approach 41,150 73,665 Credit risk 218,380 258,118 Counterparty credit risk 7,794 12,848 Operational risk 26,594 27,939 Market risk 11,082 11,394 Total risk-weighted assets 263,850 310,299 Retail risk-weighted assets reduced by 9.8 billion in the year primarily due to improvements in credit quality due to effective portfolio management and the impact of positive macroeconomic factors including favourable movements in uK house prices.
The reductions of risk-weighted assets of 26.7 billion in Commercial Banking and 10.3 billion in Wealth, Asset Finance and International primarily reflect further non-core asset reduction, the move to slotting models for Commercial Real estate CRe businesses and the impact of macroeconomic factors.
The reduction in Standardised approach risk-weighted assets is largely due to the roll-out of new IRB approaches, predominantly the implementation of slotting models in the uK and Ireland, and non-core disposals.
Counterparty credit risk-weighted assets reduced from 12.8billion to 7.8billion.
Contributing to this reduction are mark-to-market changes, management actions and migration of portfolios to the Foundation IRB approach.
Table 1.44: Risk-weighted asset movement by key driver bn bn At 31 December 2012 310.3 Management of the balance sheet 1.8 Disposals 20.7 external economic factors 15.4 Model and methodology changes 3.2 Regulatory policy changes 5.4 Other 0.4 Credit risk-weighted asset movement 39.7 Counterparty credit risk-weighted asset movement 5.1 Operational risk weighted asset movement 1.3 Market risk-weighted asset movement 0.3 At 31 December 2013 263.9 The risk-weighted asset movements table provides an analysis of the movement in risk-weighted assets in 2013 and an insight in to the key drivers of the movements in credit risk risk-weighted assets over the course of the year as follows.
Management of the balance sheet includes risk-weighted asset movements arising from new lending and asset run-off.
During 2013 there was a small risk-weighted asset reduction of 1.8 billion in this category.
Disposals include risk-weighted asset reductions arising from the sale of assets, portfolios and businesses.
Disposals reduced risk-weighted assets by 20.7 billion, primarily reflecting non-core disposals in Commercial Banking and Wealth, Asset Finance and International.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 182 183 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 external economic factors captures movements driven by changes in the economic environment.
The reduction in risk-weighted assets of 15.4 billion is mainly due to changes in underlying credit quality, favourable house price movements and non-core exposures moving into default under the Foundation IRB approach.
Model and methodology changes include the movement in risk-weighted assets arising from new model implementation, model enhancement and changes in credit risk approach applied to certain portfolios.
Model and methodology changes increased risk-weighted assets by 3.2 billion.
Regulatory policy changes represent changes required by regulatory authorities.
Substantially all of the 5.4 billion reduction is due to the implementation of slotting models relating to Commercial Real estate and other exposures in the uK and Ireland.
Within the categories above, risk-weighted asset movements can arise as a result of credit risk exposures becoming adjustments to capital resources, through expected losses, rather than being risk-weighted.
CRD IV capital and leverage information The data in the following tables represents estimates reflecting the Groups interpretation of the CRD IV rules published on 27 June 2013 via the Official Journal of the european union including amendments made to the Regulation via the Corrigenda published on 30 november 2013 and the PRA policy statement PS7 13, issued on 19 December 2013.
The actual capital ratios under CRD IV may differ as the final rules are assessed in their entirety, related technical standards are finalised and other guidance is issued by the relevant regulatory bodies.
A number of final draft CRD IV implementing and regulatory technical standards have already been issued by the european Banking Authority eBA with a number of other draft standards currently being taken through respective consultation processes.
The Group has not reflected the impact of these draft standards in its CRD IV estimates, though it does not currently believe that these would make a material difference to the capital position outlined below.
Capital position on a CRD IV basis The Groups capital position at 31 December 2013 is shown in the table below calculated on the following three bases: firstly the current prevailing regulatory framework: secondly applying the CRD IV rules including the transitional arrangements that have been in place from 1 January 2014: and thirdly on a fully loaded basis.
The transitional arrangements reflect the requirements of policy statement PS7 13, issued by the PRA on 19 December 2013.
This differs from the Groups previously published statements, which allowed for the transitional phasing of CeT1 deductions consistent with the FSAs previous policy guidance.
This has resulted in a material reduction in the transitional CeT1 capital bringing this close to the fully loaded position.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 184 185 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Table 1.45: Capital position on CRD IV basis CRD IV rules Prevailing rules as at 31 December Transitional Fully loaded 2013 CRD IV rules CRD IV rules m m m At 31 December 2013 Core common equity tier 1 CET1 Shareholders equity per balance sheet 38,989 38,989 38,989 1 Adjustment for insurance entity 1,917 1,917 Regulatory adjustments: non-controlling interests 32 unrealised reserves on available-for-sale assets 615 Other adjustments 1,614 1,295 1,295 41,250 38,367 38,367 less: deductions from core common equity tier 1 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 3,815 1,979 1,979 excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 373 866 866 Securitisation deductions 71 141 141 1 Significant investments 2,909 3,185 Deferred tax assets 5,025 5,155 Core common equity tier 1 capital 36,991 27,447 27,041 2 Pro forma core common equity tier 1 capital n a 28,218 27,925 Additional tier 1 AT1 Additional tier 1 instruments 5,042 4,486 less: deductions from tier 1 Significant investments 3,859 677 Total tier 1 capital 38,174 31,256 27,041 2 Pro forma total tier 1 capital n a 32,027 27,925 Tier 2 Tier 2 instruments 20,392 19,870 15,636 unrealised gain on available-for-sale equity investments 135 eligible provisions 359 349 349 less: deductions from tier 2 excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 373 Securitisation deductions 71 Significant investments 3,859 1,015 1,692 Total capital resources 54,757 50,460 41,334 2 n a 51,231 42,218 Pro forma total capital resources Risk-weighted assets 263,850 272,092 271,078 2 Risk-weighted assets pro forma n a 272,641 271,908 Core common equity tier 1 capital ratio 14.0% 10.1% 10.0% Tier 1 capital ratio 14.5% 11.5% 10.0% Total capital ratio 20.8% 18.5% 15.2% 2 Pro forma core common equity tier 1 capital ratio n a 10.3% 10.3% 2 Pro forma tier 1 capital ratio n a 11.7% 10.3% 2 Pro forma total capital ratio n a 18.8% 15.5% 3 31 December 2012 Core common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.0% 11.6% 8.1% Tier 1 capital ratio 13.8% 11.6% 8.1% Total capital ratio 17.3% 16.7% 11.3% 1 Removal of post-acquisition reserves impacts for Insurance business as under CRD IV, as implemented by PRA policy statement PS7 13, the deduction for significant investments in the equity of financial sector entities is based on cost of investment where previously this was based on net asset value.
The overall impact of this change on the CRD IV ratios is negligible.
2 Includes the benefits of the announced sales of Heidelberger leben, Scottish Widows Investment Partnership and Sainsburys Bank.
3 31 December 2012 comparatives have not been restated to reflect the implementation of IAS 19R and IFRS 10.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 184 185 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 The movements in the transitional CRD IV common equity tier 1, tier 1, tier 2 and total capital positions in the period are shown below: Table 1.46: Movements in capital Common equity Additional Total tier 1 tier 1 Tier 2 capital m m m m 1 At 31 December 2012 37,385 16,424 53,809 update to transitional phasing and treatment of insurance 10,979 3,846 2,748 4,385 loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 838 838 Share issuance 510 510 Pension movements: 2 Implementation of IAS 19R 1,258 1,258 Deduction of pension asset 515 515 Movement through other comprehensive income 108 108 Available-for-sale reserve 1,014 1,014 Deferred tax asset 82 82 Goodwill and intangible assets deductions 292 292 excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 406 406 Significant investment deduction 2,075 486 729 3,290 eligible provisions 349 349 Subordinated debt movements: 3 Grandfathering 557 172 385 Restructuring to ensure CRD IV compliance 932 932 Foreign exchange 49 102 151 Repurchases, redemptions and other 83 2,048 1,965 Other movements 379 379 At 31 December 2013 27,447 3,809 19,204 50,460 4 Pro forma impacts 771 771 4 Pro forma At 31 December 2013 28,218 3,809 19,204 51,231 1 31 December 2012 comparatives have not been restated to reflect the implementation of IAS 19R and IFRS 10.
2 Includes the impact to other comprehensive income and the movement in the retirement benefit asset.
3 Includes movement from 90 per cent to 80 per cent grandfathering and adjustment due to further clarification of grandfathering rules.
4 Includes the benefits of the announced sales of Heidelberger leben, Scottish Widows Investment Partnership and Sainsburys Bank.
Common equity tier 1 capital resources have decreased by 9,938 million in the period, 9,167 million on a pro forma basis.
This is substantially due to a 10,979 million adjustment relating to updated transitional phasing, reflecting PRA policy statement PS7 13 which has accelerated the phasing in of deductions including deferred tax, significant investments and excess expected losses to CeT1 bringing this close to the fully loaded position.
Movements in CeT1 capital include those reflected under prevailing rules at 31 December 2013 on page 181.
Incremental to these are increases largely driven by the 2,155 million in dividends from the Insurance business partially offset by negative valuation movements on available for sale assets.
Total capital resources have decreased by 3,349 million in the period, 2,578 million on a pro forma basis.
excluding the impact of updated transitional phasing, total capital increased by 1,036 million, largely reflecting movements in CeT1 resources described above.
Leverage ratio The Basel III reforms include the introduction of a leverage ratio framework designed to reinforce risk based capital requirements with a simple, transparent, non-risk based backstop measure.
The leverage ratio is defined as tier 1 capital divided by the exposure measure.
The Basel Committee will test the proposed 3 per cent minimum requirement for the leverage ratio and have proposed that final calibrations, and any further adjustments to the definition of the leverage ratio, will be completed by 2017, with a view to migrating to a Pillar I treatment on 1 January 2018.
In line with previous reporting periods, the PRA has asked the Group to publish a leverage ratio on a fully loaded CRD IV basis, with the exposure measure adjusted to reflect the basis of the original December 2010 Basel III leverage ratio framework, as interpreted through guidance released in July 2012.
In addition to the calculation basis specified by the PRA, the Groups leverage ratio at 31 December 2013 is shown in the table below on a final CRD IV rules basis and estimated in accordance with the revised Basel III leverage ratio framework issued on 12 January 2014.
In each case the ratio is presented on a transitional, fully loaded and fully loaded including tier 1 instruments basis.
The inclusion of tier 1 instruments for the latter basis refers to the full recognition of tier 1 instruments that will become ineligible once the transitional phase has elapsed.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 186 187 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Table 1.47: Leverage ratio on CRD IV basis Fully loaded including tier 1 1 Transitional Fully loaded instruments m m m At 31 December 2013 CRD IV Rules Total tier 1 capital for leverage ratio Common equity tier 1 capital 27,447 27,041 27,041 Tier 1 subordinated debt 4,486 5,042 Tier 1 deductions 677 Total tier 1 capital 31,256 27,041 32,083 2 Pro forma total tier 1 capital 32,027 27,925 32,967 Exposure measure Total statutory balance sheet assets 847,030 847,030 847,030 Adjustment for insurance assets 84,302 83,401 83,401 Removal of accounting value for derivatives and securities financing transactions 61,686 61,686 61,686 exposure value for derivatives 24,598 24,598 24,598 exposure value for securities and financing transactions 6,700 6,700 6,700 Off-balance sheet items 79,927 79,927 79,927 Other regulatory adjustments 10,308 10,437 10,437 Total exposures 801,959 802,731 802,731 2 Pro forma total exposure 809,090 813,055 813,055 Leverage ratio 3.9% 3.4% 4.0% 2 Pro forma leverage ratio 4.0% 3.4% 4.1% 3 leverage ratio at 31 December 2012 4.4% 3.1% 3.8% 4 Basel III December 2010 rules: Leverage ratio 3.3% 3.9% 2 Pro forma leverage ratio 3.4% 4.0% 5 Basel III January 2014 rules: Leverage ratio 3.7% 4.4% 2 Pro forma leverage ratio 3.8% 4.5% 1 Includes the full value of tier 1 instruments reported under the prevailing rules as at 31 December 2013.
These instruments will become ineligible for inclusion in tier 1 capital over the transitional period.
4 exposure measure determined in accordance with the original December 2010 Basel III leverage ratio framework as interpreted through the July 2012 Basel III Quantitative Impact Study instructions and related guidance and as required by the PRA.
5 exposure measure estimated in accordance with the January 2014 revised Basel III leverage ratio framework.
In order to ensure that the capital and exposure components of the ratio are measured consistently CRD IV requires the assets of the Insurance entities included in the Groups statutory consolidated balance sheet to be excluded from the exposure measure in proportion to the element of the investment in the Groups Insurance businesses that is excluded from tier 1 capital.
under the January 2014 revised BaseI III leverage ratio framework only the proportion of the investment in the Groups Insurance businesses not deducted from tier 1 capital is included in the exposure measure.
leverage ratio exposure values for derivatives and securities financing transactions have been calculated in accordance with the methodologies prescribed by the relevant rules applied.
Off-balance sheet items primarily consist of undrawn credit facilities, including facilities that may be cancelled unconditionally at any time without notice.
The leverage ratio exposure value for off-balance sheet items is determined by applying set credit conversion factors to the nominal values of the items, based on the classification of the item.
On a CRD IV basis a credit conversion factor of 10 per cent is applied to unconditionally cancellable items, with remaining off-balance sheet items predominantly attracting a 100 per cent credit conversion factor.
under the January 2014 revised Basel III leverage ratio framework, the credit conversion factors applied to off-balance sheet items follow those prescribed by Standardised credit risk rules, subject to a floor of 10 per cent.
Other regulatory adjustments consist of other balance sheet assets that are required under CRD IV to be deducted from tier 1 capital.
The removal of these assets from the exposure measure ensures consistency is maintained between the capital and exposure components of the ratio.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 186 187 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Life insurance businesses The business transacted by the life insurance companies within the Group comprises unit-linked business, non-profit business and with-profits business.
Several companies transact either unit-linked and or non-profit business, but Scottish Widows plc Scottish Widows and Clerical Medical Investment Group limited Clerical Medical hold the only With-Profit Funds managed by the Group.
Basis of determining regulatory capital of the life insurance businesses Available capital resources Available capital resources represent the excess of assets over liabilities calculated in accordance with detailed regulatory rules issued by the PRA.
Statutory basis: Assets are generally valued on a basis consistent with that used for accounting purposes with the exception that, in certain cases, the value attributed to assets is limited and which follows a market value approach where possible.
If the market is not active, the Group establishes a fair value by using valuation techniques.
liabilities are calculated using a projection of future cash flows after making prudent assumptions about matters such as investment return, expenses and mortality.
Discount rates used to value the liabilities are set with reference to the risk adjusted yields on the underlying assets in accordance with the PRA rules.
Other assumptions are based on recent actual experience, supplemented by industry information where appropriate.
The assessment of liabilities does not include future bonuses for with-profits policies that are at the discretion of management, but does include a value for policyholder options likely to be exercised.
Regulatory capital requirements each life insurance company must retain sufficient capital to meet the regulatory capital requirements mandated by the PRA: the basis of calculating the regulatory capital requirement is given below.
except for Scottish Widows and Clerical Medical, the regulatory capital requirement is a combination of amounts held in respect of actuarial reserves, sums at risk and maintenance expenses the long-Term Insurance Capital Requirement and amounts required to cover various stress tests the Resilience Capital Requirement.
The regulatory capital requirement is deducted from the available capital resources to give statutory excess capital.
For Scottish Widows and Clerical Medical, no Resilience Capital Requirement is required.
However, a further test is required in respect of the With-Profit Funds.
This involves comparing the statutory basis of assessment with a realistic basis of assessment as described below.
Realistic basis: The PRA requires each life insurance company which contains a With-Profit Fund in excess of 500 million to also carry out a realistic valuation of that fund.
The Group has two such funds: one within Scottish Widows and one within Clerical Medical.
The word realistic in this context reflects the fact that assumptions are best-estimate as opposed to prudent.
This realistic valuation is an assessment of the financial position of a With-Profit Fund calculated under a methodology prescribed by the PRA.
The valuation of with-profits assets in a With-Profit Fund on a realistic basis differs from the valuation on a statutory basis as, in respect of non-profit business written therein, it includes the present value of the anticipated future release of the prudent margins for adverse deviation.
In addition, the realistic valuation uses the market value of assets without the limit affecting the statutory basis noted above.
The realistic valuation of liabilities differs from the statutory basis in including an allowance for future bonuses whilst the value of options and guarantees are assessed using a stochastic simulation model which values these liabilities on a basis consistent with tradable market option contracts a market-consistent basis.
In calculating the realistic liabilities, the model also takes account of policyholder behaviour on a best-estimate basis and includes an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the exercise of options by policyholders might increase liabilities.
Further details regarding the stochastic simulation model are given in the section entitled Options and guarantees on page 191.
The realistic excess capital is calculated as the difference between realistic assets and realistic liabilities of the With-Profit Fund with a further deduction to cover various stress tests the Risk Capital Margin.
In circumstances where the realistic excess capital position is less than the statutory excess capital, the company is required to hold additional capital to cover the shortfall.
Any additional capital requirement under this test is referred to as the With-Profits Insurance Capital Component.
The determination of realistic liabilities of the With-Profit Funds includes the value of internal transfers expected to be made from each With-Profit Fund to the non-Profit Fund held within the same life insurance entity.
These internal transfers may include charges on policies where the associated costs are borne by the non-Profit Fund.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 188 189 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Capital statement The following table provides more detail regarding the capital resources available to meet regulatory capital requirements in the life insurance businesses.
The figures quoted are based on managements current expectations pending completion of the annual financial returns to the PRA.
Table 1.48: Capital resources audited UK Life Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non-Profit Shareholder Overseas Total With-Profit Fund With-Profit Fund Funds Funds Life Business Life Business m m m m m m At 31 December 2013 statutory basis Shareholders funds: Held outside the long-term funds 2,362 4 2,366 Held within the long-term funds 6,139 181 6,320 Total shareholders funds 6,139 2,362 185 8,686 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: unallocated surplus within insurance business 336 55 391 Value of in-force business 4,117 80 4,197 Other differences between IFRS and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 430 2,659 23 3,112 estimated share of realistic liabilities consistent with the PRA reporting treatment 389 55 444 Qualifying loan capital 2,611 2,611 Support arrangement assets 210 210 Available capital resources 157 1,382 2,314 82 3,935 At 31 December 2012 statutory basis Shareholders funds: Held outside the long-term funds 6 1,791 562 2,359 Held within the long-term funds 6,259 225 6,484 Total shareholders funds 6,265 1,791 787 8,843 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: unallocated surplus within insurance business 205 62 267 Value of in-force business 5,056 718 5,774 Other differences between IFRS and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 101 175 152 78 estimated share of realistic liabilities consistent with the PRA reporting treatment 305 62 367 Qualifying loan capital 2,238 2,238 Support arrangement assets 190 190 Available capital resources 90 1,120 3,854 221 5,285 Available capital resources for With-Profit Funds are presented in the table on a realistic basis as this is more onerous than on a regulatory basis.
Formal intra group capital arrangements Scottish Widows has also provided subordinated loans to its fellow group undertaking Scottish Widows Bank plc.
no such arrangement exists for Clerical Medical.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 188 189 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Constraints over available capital resources Scottish Widows Scottish Widows was created following the demutualisation of Scottish Widows Fund and life Assurance Society in 2000.
The terms of the demutualisation are governed by a Court-approved Scheme of Transfer the Scheme which, inter alia, created a With-Profits Fund and a non-Participating Fund and established protected capital support for the with-profits policyholders in existence at the date of demutualisation.
Much of that capital support is held in the non-Participating Fund and, as such, the capital held in that fund is subject to the constraints noted below.
The requirements of the Scheme sit alongside Scottish Widows published Principles and Practices of Financial Management of With-Profit business.
Requirement to maintain a Support Account: The Scheme requires the maintenance of a Support Account within the non-Participating Fund.
The quantum of the Support Account is calculated with reference to the value of assets backing current with-profits policies which also existed at the date of demutualisation.
under the Scheme assets can only be transferred from the non-Participating Fund if the value of the remaining assets in the fund exceeds the value of the Support Account.
Scottish Widows has obtained from the PRA permission to include the value of the Support Account or, if greater, the excess of realistic liabilities for business written before demutualisation over the relevant assets subject to the non-Participating Fund being able to cover this amount by its surplus admissible assets in assessing the realistic value of assets available to the With-Profit Fund.
At 31 December 2013 the estimated value of surplus admissible assets in the non-Participating Fund was 1,902 million 2012: 1,430 million and the estimated value of the Support Account was nil 2012: nil.
However, at 31 December 2013, the excess of realistic liabilities of with-profits business written before demutualisation over the relevant assets was 54 million 2012: 62 million which, in accordance with the PRAs permission, has been used to assess the estimated value of realistic assets available to the With-Profit Fund and has therefore reduced the value of the non-Participating Funds surplus admissible assets by that amount.
Further Support Account: The Further Support Account is an extra tier of capital support for the with-profits policies in existence at the date of demutualisation.
The Scheme requires that assets can only be transferred from the non-Participating Fund if the economic value of the remaining assets in the fund exceeds the aggregate of the Support Account and Further Support Account.
unlike the Support Account test, the economic value used for this test includes both admissible assets and the present value of future profits of business written in the non-Participating Fund or by any subsidiaries of that fund.
The balance of the Further Support Account is expected to reduce to nil by the year 2030.
At 31 December 2013, the estimated net economic value of the non-Participating Fund and its subsidiaries for the purposes of this test was 6,784 million 2012: 5,647 million and the estimated combined value of the Support Account and Further Support Account was 2,070 million 2012: 2,171 million.
Other restrictions in the non-Participating Fund: In addition to the policies which existed at the date of demutualisation, the With-Profit Fund includes policies which have been written since that date.
As a result of statements made to policyholders that investment policy will usually be the same for both types of business, there is an implicit requirement to hold additional regulatory assets in respect of the business written after demutualisation.
The estimated amount required to provide such support at 31 December 2013 is 156 million 2012: 128 million.
Scottish Widows has obtained from the PRA permission to include the value of this support in assessing the realistic value of assets available to the With-Profit Fund.
There is a further test requiring that no amounts can be transferred from the non-Participating Fund of Scottish Widows unless there are sufficient assets within the long-Term Fund to meet both policyholders reasonable expectations in light of liabilities in force at a year-end and the new business expected to be written over the following year.
Clerical Medical The surplus held in the Clerical Medical With-Profit Fund can only be applied to meet the requirements of the fund itself or distributed according to the prescribed rules of the fund.
Shareholders are entitled to an amount not exceeding one ninth of the amount distributed to policyholders in the form of bonuses on traditional with-profits business.
The use of capital within the fund is also subject to the terms of the Scheme of Demutualisation effected in 1996 and the conditions contained in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management of the fund.
In extreme circumstances capital within the Clerical Medical non-Profit Fund may be made available to support the With-Profit Fund.
Other life insurance businesses except as described above capital held in uK non-Profit Funds is potentially transferable to other parts of the Group, subject to meeting the regulatory requirements of these businesses.
There are no prior arrangements in place to allow capital to move freely between life insurance entities or other parts of the Group.
Overseas life business includes several life companies outside the uK, including Germany and Ireland.
In all cases the available capital resources are subject to local regulatory requirements, and transfer to other parts of the Group is subject to additional complexity surrounding the transfer of capital from one country to another.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 190 191 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Movements in regulatory capital The movements in the Groups available capital resources in the life business can be analysed as follows: Table 1.49: Movements in available capital resources UK Life Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non-Profit Shareholder Overseas Total With-Profit Fund With-Profit Fund Fund Fund Life Business Life Business m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 90 1,120 3,854 221 5,285 Changes in estimations and in demographic assumptions used to measure life assurance liabilities 2 6 101 11 120 Dividends and capital transactions 394 1,280 23 1,697 Change in support arrangements 20 20 new business and other factors 45 6 732 240 60 591 Disposal of business 157 20 187 364 At 31 December 2013 157 1,382 2,314 82 3,935 With-Profit Funds Available capital in the Scottish Widows With-Profit Fund has increased from 90 million at 31 December 2012 to an estimated 157 million at 31 December 2013 mainly due to a decrease in the liabilities of the non-transferred business caused by model changes and positive investment returns.
Available capital in the Clerical Medical With-Profit Fund is estimated to be zero at 31 December 2013 no change from 31 December 2012.
This is because the fund is in the process of distributing the free estate and all surplus will ultimately be distributed to policyholders.
uK non-Profit Funds Available capital in the uK non-Profit Funds has increased from 1,120 million at 31 December 2012 to an estimated 1,382 million at 31 December 2013.
This is mainly due to income on existing business offset by the impact of writing new business, positive investment returns, one-off transfers and an increase in provisions.
uK life Shareholder Funds Available capital in the uK life Shareholder Funds has decreased from 3,854 million at 31 December 2012 to an estimated 2,314 million at 31 December 2013.
The decrease mainly reflects the funding used to pay the dividend from Scottish Widows Group to lloyds Bank.
Overseas life business Available capital has decreased during 2013 due to a dividend payment which was partially offset by profits emerging on new and in force business.
Analysis of policyholder liabilities reported in the balance sheet in respect of the Groups life insurance business is as follows.
With-Profit Fund liabilities are valued in accordance with FRS 27.
Table 1.50: Analysis of policyholder liabilities Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non-Profit Overseas Total With-Profit Fund With-Profit Fund Funds Life Business Life Business m m m m m At 31 December 2013 With-Profit Fund liabilities 13,539 7,427 20,966 unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as non-participating investment contracts 45,310 4,064 49,374 Other life insurance business 11,702 11,702 Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,539 7,427 57,012 4,064 82,042 non-participating investment contract liabilities 26,722 868 27,590 Total policyholder liabilities 13,539 7,427 83,734 4,932 109,632 At 31 December 2012 With-Profit Fund liabilities 13,779 8,248 2 22,029 unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as non-participating investment contracts 38,756 8,429 47,185 Other life insurance business 12,923 2 12,925 Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,779 8,248 51,681 8,431 82,139 non-participating investment contract liabilities 49,929 4,443 54,372 Total policyholder liabilities 13,779 8,248 101,610 12,874 136,511 The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 190 191 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Capital sensitivities Shareholders funds Shareholders funds outside the long-term business fund are invested in readily tradable assets e. g. equities and fixed interest securities, cash and a range of less liquid fixed interest instruments, at levels consistent with the liquidity risk appetite of the Insurance business.
With-Profit Funds The with-profits realistic liabilities and the available capital for the With-Profit Funds are sensitive to both market conditions and changes to a number of non-economic assumptions that affect the valuation of the liabilities of the fund.
The available capital resources and capital requirements are sensitive to the level of the stock market, with the position worsening at low stock market levels as a result of the guarantees to policyholders increasing in value.
However, the exposure to guaranteed annuity options increases under rising stock market levels.
An increase in the level of equity volatility implied by the market cost of equity put options also increases the market consistent value of the options given to policyholders and worsens the capital position.
Various hedging strategies are used to manage these exposures.
The most critical non-economic assumptions are the level of take-up of options inherent in the contracts higher take-up rates are more onerous, mortality rates lower mortality rates are generally more onerous and lapses prior to dates at which a guarantee would apply lower lapse rates are generally more onerous where guarantees are in the money.
The sensitivity of the capital position and capital requirements of the With-Profit Funds is partly mitigated by the actions that can be taken by management.
Other long-term funds Outside the With-Profit Funds, assets backing actuarial reserves in respect of policyholder liabilities are invested so that the values of the assets and liabilities are broadly matched.
The most critical non-economic assumptions are mortality rates in respect of annuity business written lower mortality rates are more onerous.
Assumptions relating to future expenses are also significant with increases in the expected level of future costs leading to increases in the value of the liabilities and consequently leading to a reduction in available capital.
Reinsurance arrangements are in place to reduce the Groups exposure to deteriorating mortality rates in respect of non-annuity life insurance contracts such that assured life mortality is a less significant assumption.
For Clerical Medical, assumptions relating to the provision in relation to German insurance business litigation are also significant.
Assets held in excess of those backing reserves are invested in readily tradable assets e. g. equities and fixed interest securities, cash and a range of less liquid fixed interest instruments, at levels consistent with the risk appetite of the Insurance business.
Options and guarantees The Group has sold insurance products that contain options and guarantees, both within the With-Profit Funds and in other funds.
Options and guarantees within the With-Profit Funds The most significant options and guarantees provided from within the With-Profit Funds are in respect of guaranteed minimum cash benefits on death, maturity, retirement or certain policy anniversaries, and guaranteed annuity options on retirement for certain pension policies.
For those policies written in Scottish Widows pre-demutualisation containing potentially valuable options and guarantees, under the terms of the Scheme a separate memorandum account was set up within the With-Profit Fund of Scottish Widows called the Additional Account which is available, inter alia, to meet any additional costs of providing guaranteed benefits in respect of those policies.
The Additional Account had a value at 31 December 2013 of 2.2 billion 2012: 2.1 billion.
The eventual cost of providing benefits on policies written both pre and post demutualisation is dependent upon a large number of variables, including future interest rates and equity values, demographic factors, such as mortality, and the proportion of policyholders who seek to exercise their options.
The ultimate cost will therefore not be known for many years.
As noted above, under the realistic capital regime of the PRA, the liabilities of both the Clerical Medical and Scottish Widows With-Profit Funds are valued using a market-consistent stochastic simulation model.
This model is used in order to place a value on the options and guarantees which captures both their intrinsic value and their time value.
The most significant economic assumptions included in the model are: Risk-free yield.
The risk-free yield is defined as spot yields derived from swap yield curves.
The calibration of the stochastic simulation model uses implied volatilities of derivatives where possible, or historical observed volatility where it is not possible to observe meaningful prices.
For example, at 31 December 2013, the 10 year equity-implied at-the-money assumption was set at 22.1 per cent 2012: 26.3 per cent.
The assumption for property volatility was 15 per cent 2012: 15 per cent.
The volatility of interest rates has been calibrated to the implied volatility of swaptions which was broadly 17 per cent 2012: 18 per cent.
The model includes a matrix of the correlations between each of the underlying modelled asset types.
The correlations used are consistent with long-term historical returns.
The most significant non-economic assumptions included in the model are management actions in respect of investment policy and bonus rates, guaranteed annuity option take-up rates and assumptions regarding persistency both of which are based on recent actual experience and include an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the exercise of options by policyholders might increase liabilities, and assumptions regarding mortality which are based on recent actual experience and industry tables.
Options and guarantees outside the With-Profit Funds A number of typical guarantees are provided outside the With-Profit Funds such as guaranteed payments on death e. g. term assurance or guaranteed income for life e. g. annuities.
In addition, certain personal pension policyholders in Scottish Widows, for whom reinstatement to their occupational pension scheme was not an option, have been given a guarantee that their pension and other benefits will correspond in value to the benefits of the relevant occupational pension scheme.
The key assumptions affecting the ultimate value of the guarantee are future salary growth, gilt yields at retirement, annuitant mortality at retirement, marital status at retirement and future investment returns.
There is currently a provision, calculated on a deterministic basis, of 63 million 2012: 56 million in respect of those guarantees.
If future salary growth were 0.5 per cent per annum greater than assumed, the liability would increase by approximately 1 million.
If yields were 0.5 per cent lower than assumed, the liability would increase by approximately 9 million.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 192 193 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Regulatory risk Definition Regulatory risk is defined as the risk that the Group is exposed to fines, censure, or legal or enforcement action due to failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations, codes of conduct or legal obligations.
Risk appetite The Group has zero risk appetite for material regulatory breaches.
Exposures The Group periodically experiences material regulatory breaches outside its risk appetite.
Regulatory exposure is also driven by the significant volume of current legislation and regulation within the uK and overseas with which the Group has to comply, along with new or proposed legislation and regulation which needs to be interpreted, implemented and embedded into day-to-day operational and business practices across the Group.
This is particularly the case currently: the industry still continues to witness increased levels of government and regulatory intervention in the banking sector with an increasing number of regulatory rules from both the uK and overseas affecting the Groups operations.
It is clear that regulatory challenges remain, including the area of conduct where the Group accepted the findings of the FCA investigation into its historic Bancassurance incentive schemes, and agreed to pay a fine of 28 million in 2013.
The Group has made significant changes to its incentive schemes since the period relating to the fine.
Measurement Regulatory risks are measured against a set of risk appetite metrics, with appropriate thresholds, which have been approved by the Board and which are regularly reviewed and monitored.
Metrics include assessments of control and material regulatory rule breaches.
Mitigation Mitigation is undertaken across the Group and comprises the following key components: Risks are assessed by the business and controls put in place to mitigate them: enhanced regulatory reporting: Regulatory horizon scanning: Oversight and assurance of the regulatory risks within the business: Quality assurance theme reviews to assess compliance with rules, regulations and policies: Continued investment in the Groups IT systems is enabling the Group to meet its regulatory commitments: Senior business leaders monitor the progress of these assessments and mitigations: Material risks and issues are escalated to Group-level bodies which challenge the business on its management of risks and issues: and Mandated policies and processes require minimum control frameworks, management information and standards to be implemented.
Monitoring Business unit risk exposure is reported to Risk Division where it is aggregated at Group level and a report prepared.
The report forms the basis of challenge to the business at the monthly Group Compliance and Conduct Risk Committee.
This committee may escalate matters to the Chief Risk Officer, or higher committees.
The report also forms the basis of the regulatory sections in the Groups consolidated risk reporting.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 192 193 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Insurance risk Definition Insurance risk is defined as the risk of adverse developments in the timing, frequency and severity of claims for insured underwritten events and in customer behaviour, leading to reductions in earnings and or value.
Risk appetite Insurance risk appetite is defined with regard to the quantum and composition of insurance risk that exists currently in the Group and the Groups risk preferences.
Insurance risk appetite in the Insurance business is set by the Insurance Board and includes maximum earnings exposures to longevity and persistency risk in defined stresses.
Insurance risk appetite for longevity in the defined benefit pension schemes is set by the Board using two key metrics: a one year increase to life expectancy and a combined market and longevity stress.
Exposures The major sources of insurance risk within the Group are the Insurance business and the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
The nature of Insurance business involves the accepting of insurance risks which relate primarily to mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency and expenses for the life and pension business, and property and unemployment for the general insurance business.
The prime insurance risk of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is related to longevity.
As with any business, the Group is exposed to a number of insurance events, some of which are covered by bespoke corporate insurance policies.
Measurement Insurance risks are measured using a variety of techniques including stress and scenario testing, and where appropriate, stochastic modelling.
Current and potential future insurance risk exposures are assessed and aggregated on a range of stresses including risk measures based on 1-in-200 year stresses for Insurances Individual Capital Assessment Group defined benefit pension schemes utilise 1-in-20 year stresses and other supporting measures where appropriate, including those set out in notes 36 and 37 to the financial statements.
Mitigation A key element of the control framework is the consideration of insurance risk by an appropriate combination of high level committees and Boards.
For the Insurance business the ultimate control body is the Insurance Board but significant risks from Insurance and the defined benefit pension schemes are reviewed by the Group executive and Group Risk Committees and or Board.
Governance of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes also includes two specialist pension committees one Group executive sub committee and a supporting management committee.
Insurance risk is mitigated through pooling and through diversification across large numbers of individuals, geographical areas, and different types of risk exposure.
A number of processes are used to control insurance risk including: underwriting the process to ensure that new insurance proposals are properly assessed : pricing-to-risk new insurance proposals are priced to cover the underlying risks inherent within the products : claims management: product design and management: policy wording: reinsurance and cost controls and efficiencies.
In addition, exposure limits by risk type are assessed through the business planning process and used as a control mechanism to ensure risks are taken within risk appetite.
The most significant insurance risks within the Insurance business are longevity risk, persistency risk and expenses.
The merits of longevity risk transfer and hedging solutions are regularly reviewed.
It is not possible to hedge persistency risk.
General insurance exposure to accumulations of risk and possible catastrophes is mitigated by reinsurance arrangements which are broadly spread over different reinsurers.
Detailed modelling, including that of the potential losses under various catastrophe scenarios, supports the choice of reinsurance arrangements.
Appropriate reinsurance arrangements also apply within the life and pensions businesses with significant mortality risk and morbidity risk being transferred to the Groups chosen reinsurers.
The most significant insurance risk in the defined benefit pension schemes is longevity risk.
The Groups exposure to accumulations of risk and events including possible catastrophes is mitigated by insurance arrangements spread over different insurers.
Detailed analysis, including that of the potential losses under various catastrophe scenarios, supports the choice of insurance arrangements.
Monitoring Ongoing monitoring is in place to track the progression of insurance risks.
In respect of the Insurance business this involves monitoring relevant experiences against expectations for example claims experience, persistency experience, expenses and non-disclosure at the point of sale as well as tracking the progression of insurance risk capital against limits and the sensitivity of profit before tax to the most significant insurance risks persistency and longevity.
The effectiveness of controls put in place to manage insurance risk is evaluated and significant divergences from experience or movements in risk exposures are investigated and remedial action taken.
Progress against risk appetite metrics in respect of longevity risk in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is regularly reported and reviewed by the relevant committees.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 194 195 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT People risk Definition People risk is defined as the risk that the Group fails to lead, manage and enable colleagues to deliver to customers, shareholders and regulators leading to reductions in earnings and or value.
Risk appetite The Groups people risk appetite and corresponding measures are reviewed and approved annually by the Board to enable the Group to lead responsibly and proficiently, manage people resource effectively, support and develop colleague talent, and meet legal and regulatory obligations related to its people.
To achieve this, the Group has developed and implemented policies and processes that provide a framework where the Groups businesses and colleagues can operate in accordance with the laws, regulations and voluntary codes that apply to the Group and its activities.
Exposures The Groups management of material people risks is critical to its capacity to deliver against its strategic objectives and to be the best bank for customers.
Over the coming year the Group anticipates the following key people risk exposures: Retention of colleague talent within key populations in the context of a more active employment market: The Groups reward scheme compliance and talent attraction may be impacted by regulatory changes to remuneration governance and the Approved Persons regime: and Colleague engagement may be challenged by ongoing media attention on banking sector culture, sales practices and ethical conduct.
Measurement People risk is measured through a series of quantitative and qualitative indicators, aligned to key sources of people risk for the Group.
In addition to risk appetite measures, people risks and controls are monitored across individual Divisions and business units.
Divisional metrics are calibrated against the Groups risk appetite and monitored on a monthly basis via the Groups risk reporting structure.
Mitigation The Group takes many mitigating actions with respect to people risk.
Key areas of focus include: Strengthening the risk and customer focused culture amongst colleagues by developing and delivering initiatives that reinforce behaviours to generate the best possible long-term outcomes for customers and colleagues: embedding the Groups Codes of Personal and Business Responsibility across the Group: Reviewing and developing incentives to ensure they promote colleagues behaviours that meet customer needs and regulatory expectations: Focusing on leadership and colleague engagement, through delivery of strategies to attract, retain and develop high calibre people together with implementation of rigorous succession planning: Maintaining focus on people risk management across the Group: and ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to Approved Persons and the Remuneration Code, and embedding compliant and appropriate colleague behaviours in line with Group policies, values and its people risk priorities.
Monitoring People risks from across the Group are reported through the first line of defence.
Key people risks are then escalated to the relevant operational or regulatory oversight committees.
Key people risks are assessed in the context of the Groups wider risk profile, and tracked to remediation.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 194 195 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Financial reporting risk Definition Financial reporting risk is defined as the risk that the Group suffers reputational damage, loss of investor confidence and or financial loss arising from the adoption of inappropriate accounting policies, ineffective controls over financial reporting, failure to manage the associated risks of changes in taxation rates, law, ownership or corporate structure and the failure to disclose accurate and timely information.
Risk appetite The risk appetite is set by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently.
It includes complying with statutory and regulatory reporting requirements and compliance with tax legislation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Exposure exposure represents the sufficiency of the Groups policies and procedures to maintain adequate systems, processes and controls to support statutory, prudential regulatory and tax reporting, to prevent and detect financial reporting fraud, to manage the Groups tax position and to support market disclosures.
Measurement Financial reporting risk is measured by the adequacy of and compliance with a number of key controls.
Identification of potential financial reporting risk also forms a part of the Groups Operational Risk management framework.
Mitigation The Group maintains a system of internal controls, which is designed to: ensure that accounting policies are consistently applied, transactions are recorded and undertaken in accordance with delegated authorities, that assets are safeguarded and liabilities are properly recorded: enable the calculation, preparation and reporting of financial, prudential regulatory and tax outcomes in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards, statutory and regulatory requirements: and ensure that disclosures are made on a timely basis in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements and as far as possible are consistent with best practice and in compliance with the British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
Monitoring Financial reporting risk is actively monitored at business unit and Group levels.
There are specific programmes of work undertaken across the Group to support: annual assessments of 1 the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting: and 2 the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, both in accordance with the requirements of the uS Sarbanes Oxley Act: annual certifications by the Senior Accounting Officer with respect to the maintenance of appropriate tax accounting arrangements, in accordance with the requirements of the 2009 Finance Act.
The Group also has in place an assurance process to support its prudential regulatory reporting and monitoring activities designed to identify and review tax exposures on a regular basis.
There is ongoing monitoring to assess the impact of emerging regulation and legislation on financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting.
The Group has a Disclosure Committee which assists the Group Chief executive and Chief Financial Officer in fulfilling their disclosure responsibilities under relevant listing and other regulatory and legal requirements.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the quality and acceptability of the Groups financial disclosures.
For further information on the Audit Committees responsibilities relating to financial reporting see pages 91 to 92.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group 196 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Governance risk Definition Governance risk is defined as the risk that the Groups organisational infrastructure fails to provide robust oversight of decision making and the control mechanisms to ensure strategies and management instructions are implemented effectively.
Risk appetite Governance risk appetite is defined and embedded through the Groups Governance Principle and Policy which are reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
The Group has governance arrangements that support the effective long-term operation of the business, maximise shareholder value and meet regulatory and social expectations.
Exposure The internal governance arrangements of major financial institutions continue to be subject to a high level of regulatory and public scrutiny.
The Groups exposure to governance risk is also reflective of the significant volume of existing and proposed legislation and regulation within the uK and overseas with which it must comply.
Risk governance and risk culture are mutually reinforcing.
Measurement The Groups governance arrangements are assessed against new or proposed legislation and regulation and best practice among peer organisations in order to identify any areas of enhancement required.
Mitigation The Groups Risk Management Framework establishes robust arrangements for risk governance, in particular by: defining individual and collective accountabilities for risk management, risk oversight and risk assurance through a Three lines of Defence model which supports the discharge of responsibilities to customers, shareholders and regulators: outlining governance arrangements which articulate the enterprise-wide approach to risk management: and supporting a consistent approach to Group-wide behaviour and risk decision making through a Group Policy Framework which helps everyone understand their responsibilities by clearly articulating and communicating rules, boundaries and risk appetite measures which can be controlled, enforced and monitored.
The ethics and Responsible Business Policy and supporting Codes of Personal Responsibility and Business Responsibility embody the Groups values and reflect its commitment to operating responsibly and ethically both at a business and an individual level.
All colleagues are required to adhere to the Codes in all aspects of their roles.
Driving adherence to the Groups Risk Management framework goes hand in glove with its approach to risk culture which is embedded in the Groups approach to recruitment, selection, training, performance management and reward.
Monitoring A review of the Groups Risk Management Framework, which includes the status of the Groups Principles and Policy Framework, and the design and operational effectiveness of key governance committees, is undertaken on an annual basis and the findings are reported to the Group Risk Committee, Board Risk Committee and the Board.
In addition, in 2013 the Group undertook a review of the findings of the Barclays Salz Review to ensure the Salz recommendations were factored into the Groups current approach to governance and ongoing initiatives.
A further review will be undertaken in 2014.
For further information on Corporate Governance see pages 78 to 99.
Independent auditors report 198 Lloyds Banking Group Consolidated financial statements 204 197 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 212 Parent company financial statements 366 Notes to the parent company financial statements 369 1 44 69 123 377 Financial statements 30.
Tangible fixed assets Independent auditors report 198 Notes to the consolidated 31.
Other assets financial statements 212 Consolidated income statement 204 32.
Basis of preparation Consolidated statement 33.
Accounting policies of comprehensive income 205 34.
T rading and other financial liabilities at fair 3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements value through profit or loss Consolidated balance sheet 206 4.
Debt securities in issue Consolidated statement 5.
L iabilities arising from insurance contracts of changes in equity 208 6.
Net fee and commission income and participating investment contracts 7.
Net trading income Consolidated cash flow statement 211 37.
Other operating income investment contracts 10.
U nallocated surplus within insurance businesses 11.
Investments in joint ventures and associates 42.
Trading and other financial assets at fair value 46.
Share premium account through profit or loss 47.
Loans and advances to banks 49.
Loans and advances to customers 50.
Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 53.
A llowance for impairment losses on loans 54.
Financial risk management and receivables 55.
Restatement of prior period information 26.
Other intangible assets Parent company balance sheet 366 Notes to the parent company financial statements 369 Parent company statement 1.
Accounting policies of changes in equity 367 2.
Deferred tax asset Parent company cash flow statement 368 3.
Share capital and share premium 5.
Approval of the financial statements and other information Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
