OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Report of the audit and risk committee 57 REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE Audit and Risk Committee meeting attendance in the year This report is intended to give an understanding of the role of the Audit and ended 31 March 2013 Risk Committee in assisting the Board to full its oversight responsibilities for risk management, the systems of internal control and the integrity of Scheduled Ad hoc Total the Groups financial statements.
Paul Heiden 4 4 1 1 5 5 Baroness Janet Cohen 4 4 1 1 5 5 During the year the Committee oversaw further strengthening of the Gay Huey Evans 3 4 1 1 4 5 Groups internal controls and risk management system.
This included Andrea Munari 4 4 1 1 5 5 the introduction of a new Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework Massimo Tononi 4 4 1 1 5 5 ERMF described on pages 40-41.
Composition and responsibilities In addition to the Committees regular responsibilities, the Committee also The Committee is chaired by Paul Heiden who provides recent and relevant reviewed the financial disclosures in relation to the circular in respect of the financial experience through his chartered accountant qualication and Companys revised offer for a majority shareholding in LCH.
Clearnet Group career in a variety of senior finance roles.
In addition, the Board is satisfied Limited and the Prospectus in respect of the Companys Euro Medium that each member of the Committee has the skills and experience Term Note Programme EMTN Programme.
necessary to enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The names, skill and experience of the members of the Priorities in the forthcoming year will include the Groups on-going efforts Audit and Risk Committee are provided on pages 48-49. to further enhance and embed its ERMF and ensure appropriate application throughout the Group.
Further details of who normally attends meetings and the Committees terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and reviewed on During the year, separate heads of internal audit and risk were appointed.
an on-going basis, are available from the Group Company Secretary These appointments will further assist the Committee in its oversight of risk or at the corporate governance section of the Companys website at and audit and strengthen the three lines of defence model.
com Paul Heiden Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 58 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE The Committee may obtain, at the Groups expense, legal and other Risk Management independent professional advice on any matter within its terms of reference.
During the year, the risk function launched a programme to review and No such advice was sought by the Committee during the year.
The Chairman enhance the Group Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework, including reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work.
risk appetite, policies and risk management governance.
The Committee has been actively monitoring the development and the roll-out of the risk Activities management enhancement programme.
The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters for which the Committee is responsible are considered at the appropriate As part of its mandate the Committee reviews, at least on a quarterly basis, meeting.
During the year the Committee discharged its responsibilities the risk prole of the Group and comments on the adequacy of the processes as set out in its terms of reference by reviewing the following: in place to identify and report on key risks.
The Committee also requires management to present, on a rotational basis, key risks that could impact the Groups annual and half-yearly reporting including significant the achievement of their business objectives and related mitigating controls.
financial reporting judgements made by management.
The Committee paid particular attention to the revaluation of FTSEs goodwill and The risk management function is headed by the CRO who oversees all valuation of the intangible assets inherent in the businesses.
As in aspects of risk management in the Group.
She reports to the Chief Executive prior years, it has also reviewed and challenged the process and key officer and, for independence purposes, to the Chairman of the Audit and assumptions in the evaluation of goodwill for impairment including, the Risk Committee.
The Committee must be consulted on the appointment discount rates used, managements expectations of future performance or the dismissal of the CRO.
and the adequacy of the sensitivities applied.
For further details on the impairment testing see note 13 to the accounts External audit reviewed the analysis of items between recurring and non-recurring The Audit and Risk Committee undertakes an annual evaluation of the independence and objectivity, qualications, expertise and resources of the due diligence processes and financial information contained in the the external auditor.
The assessment also includes the effectiveness of shareholder documentation together with the processes for producing the audit process.
the relevant working capital in respect of the revised offer to acquire a majority shareholding of LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited  LLP have been the Groups auditor for many years.
the nancing considerations of the LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited Under Italian law, the auditor of regulated entities is appointed for nine years acquisition, including the capital raise requirement of the transaction and therefore, following our merger in 2008,  was appointed as auditor of Borsa Italiana until the year ended 31 March 2016 the process that the Board has conducted to conclude that the replacing Deloitte.
Borsa Italiana can replace  financial statements should be prepared on a going concern basis for just cause at any time during the appointment, although along with compliance with the Group risk management procedures as , would have to explain the reasons to CONSOB, described in the section on internal controls on pages 54-55 the Italian regulatory body.
The auditor must be replaced at the end of the nine year tenure and cannot be re-appointed within three years.
divisional risk registers within FTSE, Monte Titoli and Group Technology The external auditors independence and objectivity is maintained via the approach to risk in the Groups tax strategy a variety of safeguards: the Groups on-going strengthening of its business On a periodic basis the external auditor is required to provide written continuity arrangements conrmation of all relationships with the Group and the actions it takes to comply with professional and regulatory requirements the internal audit annual plan and key findings from reviews designed to ensure its independence and actions taken in response by management As required by its own rules and relevant professional standards the effectiveness of Internal Audits activities  rotates the lead engagement partner at the appointment of the new Head of Audit least every five years.
The current audit partner has been in place for four years the external auditors report and findings from the half-year review and year end audit There are restrictions on the employment of former employees of the external auditor.
Under the Group policy any partners or directors involved the Groups arrangements for dealing in confidence with in the audit of the Group would not be employed by the Group until at employee whistle-blowing complaints: and least two years have lapsed from the end of their involvement: and review and approval of the new Enterprise-wide Risk The Committee has adopted a policy on the provision of non-audit Management Framework.
services by the external auditor and monitors compliance with it semi-annually.
Copies are available from the Group Company Secretary or at the corporate governance section of the Companys website at www.
com OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Report of the audit and risk committee 59 A breakdown of audit and non-audit service fees paid and payable to the The Committee is satisfied that the framework outlined above ensures external auditor for the year ended 31 March 2013 is provided below and that  maintains the required level of independence in note 30 to the accounts: and objectivity, that its external audit process remains effective and the fee payable in respect of audit services is appropriate to ensure that an adequate audit can be performed.
Accordingly, the Group does not consider it necessary 2013 2012 m m to tender for the provision of audit services at this time.
There are no contractual Audit services: obligations that restrict the Groups choice of external auditor except as Audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 0.2 0.2 highlighted above in relation to Borsa Italiana.
On the recommendation of the Audit of subsidiary companies 1.0 0.9 Committee, the Board will propose  for re-election as auditor, at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 July 2013.
Audit related assurence services 0.4 0.3 Other non-audit services: Taxation 0.2 0.1 Corporate finance 0.6 2.8 Other assurance services 0.1 Total expenses 2.5 4.3 In the year ended 31 March 2013, the substantial majority of other non-audit services related to services provided by  LLP in relation to the revised offer for the acquisition of a majority shareholding in LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited and the launch of the EMTN Programme and, the Groups first retail bond on ORB.
These services included financial due diligence work and reporting accountant activities in connection with the relevant circulars to shareholders and prospectus to bond investors.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed each of these individual appointments on their merits, prior to  being engaged.
The process involved considering managements assessment of: which accounting rms had the appropriate experience and expertise to undertake the work whether there were any conicts of interest for  LLP whether the conicts of interest that existed for other potential rms, who were either advising other parties to the transactions or were auditors of the other company, could be appropriately managed: and the quantum of non-audit fees in the context of the overall audit fee and relative signicance to  in the context of its total client fees.
In each case the Audit and Risk Committee concluded, based on the balance of risks, that the appointment of  LLP represented the most effective, secure and efficient way of obtaining the necessary advice and services, given its knowledge of our business and the Groups structure and accounting and tax affairs together with its wider knowledge of our industry sector, particularly as other smaller rms lacked sufficient relevant industry experience.
To mitigate the residual risk,  maintained separate teams, distinct from the audit team, on the corporate finance transactional work.
The Company has also engaged other accounting rms on transactional work during the year, selecting the appropriate rms based on the criteria above, and the fees for these assignment are included alongside  and other advisers costs within the transaction costs disclosed in note 7 to the accounts.
