50 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Corporate Governance Report which follows is intended to give During the year, the Board has also continued its programme of visiting shareholders an understanding of the Groups corporate governance its overseas businesses and meeting local management.
The Board carried arrangements and how they operated during the year ended 31 March out a trip to New York an ofce of one of the Groups information services 2013, including how the Group complied with the principles of the Code.
businesses, FTSE to hold one of its regular meetings and meet with customers and stakeholders.
Changes to the Board and succession planning During the financial year ended 31 March 2013, the Company announced Board effectiveness the appointment of David Warren, who joined the Board as Chief Financial This year, the Board carried out an internal review of its own effectiveness.
officer on 2 July 2012 following the departure from the Board of the former The process and findings are described on page 53.
Following this review, Chief Financial officer, Doug Webb.
Mr Warren was appointed following the I am satisfied that the Board continues to perform well.
engagement of external recruitment consultants.
A shortlist of candidates met with the Chairman, Chief Executive and a selection of Non-Executive Directors.
Diversity The Board continues to focus on improving diversity, including gender I and the Board have continued to work to ensure that the balance of diversity.
The Board recognises the benefit throughout the Group in having skills and experience on the Board remains appropriate.
This has been a access to the diversity of input from people with a wide range of backgrounds particular focus in light of the LCH.
Clearnet transaction and the increase and nationalities.
This is reected at Board level by the diverse backgrounds in the Groups post trade assets.
Since the end of the year, and following and nationalities of Directors.
the completion of the LCH.
Clearnet transaction, I am pleased to welcome Jacques Aigrain, the Chairman of LCH.
Clearnet, to the Board as a NonThe Board has an on-going commitment to strengthening female Executive Director.
Jacques will not only deepen the Boards collective representation at Board level, including requesting headhunters to understanding of financial markets, but also will add to the Boards ensure that a significant proportion of Board candidates are female.
expertise in the area of post trade.
Conrmation of his appointment will be sought at this years AGM.
Investor engagement Shareholder engagement and support remains central to our planning and The Board continues to believe that, particularly in the financial services thinking.
This was again particularly important in another year of corporate sector, it and the Company benefit from having a number of members activity.
We have a comprehensive investor relations programme, which is who have recent and relevant experience in capital markets.
described in more detail in this Corporate Governance Report.
The Board receives regular updates on shareholder feedback at each of its meetings so Board focus that it is aware of shareholders views and concerns.
Shareholders are also During the year ended 31 March 2013, much of the Boards time continued offered the opportunity to meet with the Senior Independent Director, the to be spent on concluding the transaction with LCH.
Following the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and me, as appropriate.
additional regulatory capital requirements for CCPs, such as LCH.
Clearnet, introduced following recommendations from ESMA and EBA, your Board approved a revised offer to LCH.
Clearnet Group Limiteds shareholders to ensure that the transaction continued to deliver returns for LSEG shareholders.
The Board has also maintained its focus on the capital Chris Gibson-Smith structure of the Groups balance sheet, and the Company launched a Chairman Euro Medium Term Note Programme and its first retail bond on ORB in November 2012.
The Board as a whole, supported by the Audit and Risk Committee, has increased and deepened its focus on risk.
As the Group diversies and grows, we have reviewed the Groups risk framework and introduced a new Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework.
This will enable the Board and Management to better monitor, quantify and manage the Groups risk prole.
The Board views this as being particularly important following the completion of the LCH.
Clearnet transaction and the consequent increase in the proportion of the business devoted to post trade services and risk management.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 51 Board Activities in FY2013 The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate with a Key Areas of Focus clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for the running Pursuing the Companys strategy.
In particular, the Board spent much and leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive of its time considering the diversication of the Group through the has delegated authority from, and is responsible to, the Board for managing LCH.
Clearnet transaction the Companys business with the power for further delegation in respect of matters which are necessary for the effective running and management The Board also took further steps to manage the Groups balance sheet of the business.
The current key responsibilities of both the Chairman through the launch of a Euro Medium Term Note Programme and its and the Chief Executive are set out on page 52. first retail bond on ORB Further improving the Groups ability to manage risk, including Matters considered by the Board in FY2013 approving a new Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework.
Each meeting Annually Throughout the year Corporate governance report Reports from the Health and safety Detailed consideration Complying with the provisions of the Code Chief Executive on and approval of The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance and performance in each 3 Year transactions including: business integrity in all of its activities.
In 2012, the Code was reviewed of the business areas, Business Plan the revised offer for a Regulation, Legal by the Financial Reporting Council and amendments were introduced that majority stake in LCH.
and HR will apply to financial periods commencing on or after 1 October 2012 the Clearnet Group Limited, including considering New Code.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2013, the Company has the impact of European complied with all provisions of the Code, and in the coming financial year, capital requirements and the Board will ensure that the Company complies with all provisions of approval of the revised the New Code.
Class 1 circular and revised offer document The Code sets out guidance in the form of main principles and more specic the launch of the Groups provisions for good governance in relation to board leadership, effectiveness, first retail bond on ORB accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The Code the joint venture between applies to all companies with a premium listing of equity shares in the UK and FTSE Group and TMX requires companies to disclose, in relation to the Code, how they have applied Group to combine their its main principles and whether they have complied with all relevant provisions xed income businesses, throughout the year.
Where the relevant provisions have not been complied FTSE TMX Global Debt with, companies must provide an explanation for their non-compliance.
Capital Markets Further information on the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, at www.
This Corporate Reports from the Chief Off-site Discussion of changes Financial officer on the strategy day to the Groups risk prole Governance Report forms part of the Corporate Governance Statement on financial performance and approval of a new page 73 of the Directors Report.
and position of the Enterprise-wide Risk Group, investor Management Framework Board of Directors relations activity and and related policies Role of the Board Treasury matters The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group and is responsible to shareholders for achieving the Groups strategic objectives and Updates from the FSAs risk mitigation Discussion and approval Board committees programme together of Group strategy for delivering sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Directors act in a way with a presentation they consider will promote the long term success of the Company for the by the FSA now FCA benefit of shareholders as a whole, with regard to the interests of the Groups employees, the impact of the business on the community and environment Evaluation of Board and the interests of stakeholders.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule Effectiveness of matters specically reserved to it including: Reports on progress Review of quarterly financial establishing, reviewing and maintaining the corporate strategy of integration of FTSE forecasts and funding of into the Group acquisitions the annual budget increases or significant variations in the terms of borrowing facilities Executive and Non-Executive succession planning committing to major capital expenditure or acquisitions: and Review of Presentations on dividend policy.
independence of the approach to risk Directors pursuant management in current The Board also views the brands and reputations of its subsidiaries as to UK Corporate financial markets important assets of the Group and accordingly protection of the brand Governance Code and reputation of the Group and its subsidiaries, including ensuring that subsidiaries continue to meet local regulatory requirements, is also a Budget key part of the Boards role.
52 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Key responsibilities Board meeting attendance in the year ended 31 March 2013 Group Chairman Acts as an independent Non-Executive Director and chairs the Board Scheduled Ad hoc Strategy Total of the Company Chris Gibson-Smith 6 6 9 9 1 1 16 16 Xavier Rolet 6 6 9 9 1 1 16 16 Forges an effective Board as to composition, skills and competencies Raffaele Jerusalmi 6 6 9 9 1 1 16 16 Ensures, in collaboration with the Chief Executive, that the Board 1 David Warren 5 6 9 9 1 1 15 16 considers the strategic issues facing the Company in a timely manner Paolo Scaroni 6 6 8 9 0 1 14 16 and is presented with sound information and analysis appropriate to Baroness Janet Cohen 6 6 6 9 1 1 13 16 the decisions that it is asked to make Sergio Ermotti 6 6 5 9 1 1 12 16 Acts as a sounding board for the Chief Executive and provides general Paul Heiden 6 6 6 9 1 1 13 16 advice relating to the management and development of the Companys Gay Huey Evans 6 6 8 9 1 1 15 16 business: and Andrea Munari 6 6 7 9 1 1 14 16 Supports the commercial activities of the Company by, inter alia, Massimo Tononi 6 6 7 9 1 1 14 16 maintaining contact with the Companys key stakeholders and Robert Webb 5 6 6 9 1 1 12 16 maintaining dialogue with other industry participants.
Directors who left the Board in the year 31 March 2013 2 Doug Webb 1 6 Chief Executive Formulates the strategic direction of the Company and periodically 1 David Warren was appointed 2 July 2012.
2 Doug Webb left the Board on 2 July 2012. agrees this with the Board Ensures proper financial and business control is exercised within When arranging meetings on short notice, every attempt is made to the Company accommodate Directors diaries: however, inevitably, not all Directors are Chairs the Executive Committee able to attend all such meetings.
The majority of meetings where Directors have been unable to attend were the nine additional meetings called on Ensures there is a clear management structure with appropriately short notice.
delegated responsibilities staffed by suitably experienced and qualied staff When Directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conicts Ensures appropriate reporting and communication systems are in their schedule, they received and reviewed papers to be considered at the relevant meeting.
Where they had comments or concerns on the established across the Company matters to be discussed, they provided these to the Chairman of the Board Ensures key performance objectives are set for all operational or Committee in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board departments, action plans and budgetary controls are established engages with Directors between Board meetings to discuss business and, where necessary, corrective action is taken to maximise and strategic issues.
the performance of the Company Ensures the Companys strategy and values are effectively understood Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from the Company in and applied by management and staff: and respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their ofce and execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company maintained a Directors Ensures an appropriate risk management framework is in operation.
and Ofcers liability insurance policy throughout the year ended 31 March 2013.
This policy covers the Directors for any such liabilities in respect of Board and Committee meetings in FY2013 which they are not indemnified by the Company and, to extent to which it The Board held six scheduled meetings, nine additional meetings on short has indemnified the Directors, the Company.
This insurance cover will be notice, a dedicated off-site strategy day and four additional meetings of renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover for a Board sub-committee not represented in the table to consider matters a Director in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently relating principally to the LCH.
On a number of occasions or dishonestly.
throughout the year, the Chairman met Non-Executive Directors without the presence of Executive Directors.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Board balance and independence Directors also meet without the Executive Directors at the start of each There is a strong non-executive element on the Board and the Non-Executive Board meeting to discuss the business of that meeting and other issues.
Directors provide deep corporate experience and knowledge which they apply Throughout the year, the Chairman also met with Non-Executive Directors to their understanding of the Group and its strategy.
individually to discuss business-related matters.
The Board considers that the Directors possess a strong range of business experience and that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience given the size and geography of the Group.
The Board considers that the appropriate balance of skills and experience is best achieved by balancing continuity of experience and new joiners and also by drawing Directors from a wide range of backgrounds, including both the financial markets in which the Group operates, as well as broader business backgrounds.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 53 It is likely that the Board will continue to include Directors with current or Board development recent experience in financial markets.
The Board believes it benets from Each new Director joining the Board is provided with an induction this expertise.
The Board also believes that the Group benets from having programme covering the key areas of business of the Group.
Directors are directors with a mixture of tenures.
provided with key documents including strategy documents, past Board papers, an overview of the business including the regulatory framework The Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors are independent within which the Group operates and information on their responsibilities in character and judgement.
In assessing each Director, the Board considered under the Listing Rules.
Additionally, Directors meet with executives from whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, throughout the Group to better understand each of the business areas or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
together with the Groups governance and financial and legal framework.
Directors have access to independent professional advice if they judge The Code requires that a company should state its reasons if it determines it necessary to full their responsibilities as directors.
that a director is independent in certain circumstances, including where a director is employed by a shareholder or customer of the Company and Directors are encouraged to continually update their skills and knowledge where a director has served for more than nine years.
of the business, and briengs are given at Board meetings on particular parts of the business.
Andrea Munari is employed by Intesa San Paolo, which is a customer of the Group.
Whilst the Company values its relationship with Intesa as a customer, As the Board increases in size and the Group expands into an increasing given the size of Intesa, it is believed that Intesas relationship with the number of jurisdictions, the Board has also developed the practice of Company and its subsidiaries is not material to Intesa.
The Board benets undertaking formal visits to its overseas businesses so that the Directors greatly from Mr Munaris current experience in financial markets and the can experience first-hand key aspects of the Groups operations.
Audit and Risk Committee also benets from Mr Munaris experience of risk in a financial services company.
Conflicts of interest The articles of association allow the Board to authorise conicts of interest Sergio Ermotti is CEO of UBS Group, which is a customer of the Group.
that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks t. The Mr Ermotti brings vast expertise and experience of financial markets which Company has established procedures whereby actual and potential conicts greatly assists the Board.
Given the size of UBS and the large number of of interest are regularly reviewed, appropriate authorisation is sought prior markets in which it operates, its relationship with the Company is not to the appointment of any new Director and new conicts are dealt with material to UBS.
Additionally, Mr Ermottis portfolio of responsibilities then.
The decision to authorise a conict of interest can only be made by as CEO is extensive and, as such, he is not engaged directly in UBSs non-conicted Directors and, in making such decision, the Directors must customer relationship with the Company.
The Board benets from act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote Mr Ermottis current and deep experience in capital markets and the Companys success.
The Board believes that, during the year ended from his wider business experience.
31 March 2013, this procedure operated effectively.
Janet Cohen and Robert Webb have both served on the Board since 2001.
Board Committees The Board considers that an individuals independence cannot be determined The Company ensures that all Committees are provided with sufficient arbitrarily on the basis of a particular period of service.
The Board also resources to undertake their duties.
All Committees have written terms of benets from their experience and knowledge resulting from the length reference which are available from the corporate responsibility section on of their service as well as their wider business experience.
In line with the the Companys website at www.
com or on request from the Group Code, all Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Board effectiveness and leadership Remuneration Committee This year the Board carried out an internal review of its own effectiveness.
Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in a separate The evaluation process was conducted by the Group Company Secretary Remuneration Report on pages 60-71. using a detailed questionnaire.
The results of the review were used to highlight areas of strength and weakness, assist in consideration of the future Audit and Risk Committee development of the Board, its Committees and its individual directors and Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in a separate further improve their performance.
The review also included a separate Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 57-59. assessment of the Chairmans performance with feedback provided to the Chairman on an individual basis.
The results were discussed by the Board and actions agreed where appropriate.
The evaluation concluded that the Board, its Committees and its individual directors were working effectively.
The key area identied by the Board for further development was ensuring that the Board has the appropriate skill sets to govern a more diversied Group, which includes a greater number of post trade assets.
This should be a focus of both succession planning and Board training.
54 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk Management and Internal Control Nomination Committee Report The Board has overall responsibility for the risk management framework The Nomination Committee members as at 31 March 2013 were: Chris and to ensure that management maintains an adequate system of internal Gibson-Smith Chairman, Janet Cohen, Robert Webb and Paolo Scaroni.
control appropriate for the Groups business and the risks to which it is The Committees role is to review the size and structure of the Board, exposed.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in discharging succession planning and to make recommendations to the Board on this responsibility by reviewing and assessing the Groups system of potential candidates for the Board.
The Committee normally invites internal controls and risk management process.
Executive management are the Chief Executive to attend.
The Committee has written terms of responsible for designing, operating and monitoring the system of internal reference which are available from the Group Company Secretary controls.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage the business or at the corporate governance section of the Companys website within the Boards risk appetite rather than eliminate the risk of failure to www.
com achieve the Groups objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, fraud or The full Board considered the appointment of a new CFO.
The breaches of laws and regulations.
Committee interviewed candidates for the position of CFO and gave feedback to the Chairman.
The Group operates a 3 lines of defence model for its system of internal control.
In this model, management first line of defence is accountable for The Committee and the Board have sought to ensure that appointments managing risks.
Risk Management and Compliance constitute the second are of the best candidates to promote the success of the Company and line of defence and define the risk management framework to keep the that appointments are based on merit, with due regard for the benets business activities within the Groups risk appetite.
Finally, the internal of diversity on the Board, including gender whilst also meeting the audit function provides the independent assurance on controls, risk and requirements of the Equality Act.
Subject to these requirements, the governance as the third line of defence.
The system of internal controls is Board has an ongoing commitment to further strengthening female amended as appropriate in response to changes in the Groups business representation on the Board.
At Board level, this has included requesting and associated risks.
The key elements of the Groups systems of internal headhunters to ensure that as far as practicable, a significant proportion controls are described below.
of the long list of candidates are female.
Organisational structure The Committee formally met once in the year.
It considered Board The day-to-day running of the Group is managed by an Executive Committee and senior management succession planning.
Nomination Committee which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive officer.
Each Executive members also held a number of informal discussions during the year.
Committee member is responsible for one of the Groups operating divisions or a major area of strategic importance.
The Executive Committee meets Nomination Committee meeting attendance in the year regularly to review business and financial performance, risk exposure and ended 31 March 2013 approve key decisions.
The Executive Committee is supported by a Leadership Team, comprising approximately 70 Senior Managers from across the Total business units.
Lines of responsibility have been clearly dened and an Chris Gibson-Smith 1 1 appropriate framework of delegated authorities is in place.
The Group has successfully increased its size and level of diversication through organic Baroness Janet Cohen 1 1 and inorganic strategic initiatives.
As a result, the Group started a project Paolo Scaroni 1 1 during FY13 to upgrade its existing risk management framework to ensure Robert Webb 1 1 it is t for purpose for its new size and current ambitions.
This included, after the year end, creating three new risk sub-committees of the Executive Committee to support it in monitoring and managing Group-wide risks: New Products and Market, Operational and Financial Risk Committees.
Risk management framework The risk management process is governed by a Board-approved Enterprisewide Risk Management Framework, which was reviewed and upgraded during the year.
Executive management are accountable for risk identication, analysis, evaluation, mitigation, monitoring and reporting in their area within the framework established by the Board.
A combined bottom up and top down risk management approach is adopted, with risks identied at a business unit, divisional and Group level.
Divisional risk registers are reviewed by the Executive Committee and reported to the Audit and Risk Committee every quarter.
The Group risk register is reviewed by the Board at least every six months following an updated assessment of the risk management process by the Audit and Risk Committee.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance 55 Each Group risk is owned by a member of the Executive Committee who Operational Risk is responsible for managing or mitigating the risk to a level within the The Group manages and monitors operational risks through the setting of risk Groups risk appetite.
Executive Committee members present their divisions appetite, clear denition of roles and responsibilities, policies and procedures, risk management processes and latest risk registers to the Audit and Risk and through reporting of exposures.
The Group has in place committees, Committee every six months on a rotational basis.
On a semi-annual basis including the Business Continuity Committee and Technology project a divisional internal control and risk management self-certication process committees to support the operational risk management process.
The Group is also performed.
Each business unit is required to confirm that they are has since the end of the financial year also created an Operational Risk in compliance with the Groups policies and governance procedures.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the Groups risk exceptions are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Internal audit exposure, including controls that could have an impact on financial reporting, provides regular reports to the Audit and Risk Committee on the and ensuring risks remain within appetite.
adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and the Groups risk framework.
Regulatory monitoring Regulatory and compliance risks in the markets in which the Group operates An overview of the principal risks and uncertainties for the Group is are monitored by compliance functions.
These regulatory teams work closely provided on pages 42-47. with the FCA formerly the FSA in the UK and CONSOB and Banca dItalia in Italy and other regulators in countries where we operate.
The compliance Policies and procedures functions are managed independently from the customer facing business A framework of Group policies and procedures has been established for units and report on a regular basis to local and Group Boards.
all aspects of the Groups activities, supplemented by additional local policies where appropriate.
The policies are reviewed and updated on an on-going Internal audit basis to reect changes in the Groups risk prole and appetite.
Key policies The Internal Audit function provides reliable, objective and reasonable are emphasised in the employee induction process and regularly reinforced.
assurance to Management, Audit and Risk Committee members and Board members of the Group on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system Financial controls of internal controls, the governance model and the risk management Comprehensive financial reporting and review procedures are in place, framework in place to manage risks within the Groups risk appetite and with financial and key performance indicators reviewed against operational achieve the Groups business objectives.
As a third line of defence, the budgets on a monthly basis at a group, divisional and business unit level.
function has no operational responsibilities over the entities processes The CFO monthly management report used by the Executive Committee that it reviews.
is shared with the Group Board and any key issues are reviewed at each Board meeting.
Investment opportunities are evaluated following a clearly The independence of the internal audit function is achieved through dened investment appraisal process.
The Group has, since the end of the following means: the year, created a Financial Risk Committee and New Products and The Group Head of Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Market Committee.
The role of these committees is to oversee financial Committee of the Board and to the CFO for administrative matters risk management across the Group and to oversee projects to expand and has direct access to the Chairman of the Board in to new markets or introduce new products.
The Audit and Risk Committee must be consulted on the appointment Treasury risk management or the dismissal of the Group Head of Audit: and Group treasury risk management is overseen by the Treasury Committee The Committee approves the annual budget for internal audit.
which is chaired by the Chief Financial officer.
The Committee operates within Board approved policies and meets regularly to review the Conclusion management of the Groups own capital, credit, market and liquidity risks.
The Board confirms that, through the Audit and Risk Committee, it has Counterparty, investment and liquidity risks related to the CCP operations reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal of CC&G are separately overseen by the CC&G Board Risk Committee controls throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual and by the Group Executive Committee.
Further details on financial risk Report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identied during this management are provided in note 2 to the accounts.
The Board is satisfied that the risk management process and system of internal controls accords with the revised Turnbull guidance 2005.
56 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Relations with shareholders The Company runs a comprehensive Investor Relations IR programme, ensuring that existing and potential shareholders, plus sell-side analysts that produce investment research relating to the Group, have access to the Company and public information to appropriately understand the strategy, activities, performance and prospects of the Company.
The IR programme typically consists of meetings, calls, presentations and information releases on a regular basis throughout the year, based around the Groups financial reporting calendar and following major corporate events and news ow.
The IR function, reporting to the CFO, is responsible for planning and executing the IR programme and for day-to-day contact with the market.
The CEO and CFO engage in regular contact with shareholders, through meetings and presentations, to discuss strategy, performance and other matters.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee are also available to meet major investors, particularly to discuss corporate governance and remuneration, as required.
Over the past year, senior management and the IR team held 286 meetings and calls with shareholders and potential investors in the UK, Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacic and North America.
The Board receives a report on IR matters at each of its scheduled meetings, including market expectations of financial performance, share register composition and feedback from major investors.
Analyst research notes are circulated to the Board following publication.
The Groups corporate brokers and a specialist IR advisory rm provide the Board with advice on shareholder relations and share register analysis.
The AGM provides the opportunity for shareholders to meet Directors and to put questions to the Board, including the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The procedures for the AGM are compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Voting at the AGM is by way of a poll to ensure all shareholders views are taken into account.
The Investor Relations section of the Companys website www.
com, is the primary source of regularly updated information about the Group.
Annual and interim reports and accounts, interim management statements, news releases, presentations and other documents are all available on the website together with a list of analysts producing research on the company and a summary of analysts forecasts of performance.
Presentations of preliminary and interim results are accessible by all shareholders via webcasts in real time and also via replay for a period after the event.
