OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Investor relations 115 INVESTOR RELATIONS Shareholder services Substantial Shareholders Equiniti registrars shareview service As at 14 May 2013, the Company had been notied of the following Shareholders who hold London Stock Exchange Group shares in interests amounting to more than three per cent in the issued share certicated form or within Equiniti Investment Account or ISA can access capital of the Company in accordance with DTR 5 of the FSAs Disclosure Shareview.
Shareview is a free service provided by our registrars, Equiniti.
and Transparency Rules: It may be accessed through the internet at www.
co. uk Borse Dubai Limited 21.0% Qatar Investment Authority 15.4% By creating a Shareview portfolio, you will gain online access to FIL Limited 5.2% information about your London Stock Exchange Group shares and other investments including: Direct access to information held for you on the share register including share movements A daily indicative valuation of all investments held in your portfolio A range of information and practical help for shareholders.
To register at Shareview you will need your shareholder reference which can be found on your share certicate and you will be asked to select your own personal identication number.
A user ID will then be posted to you.
If you have any problems in registering your portfolio for the Shareview service, contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2544.
Calls to this number are charged at eight pence per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary.
For calls from outside the UK, contact Equiniti on 44 121 415 7047.
Please note that you should only use electronic addresses included in this Annual Report for the purposes expressly stated.
Groups share price service To obtain share price information for London Stock Exchange Group plc, see our website at: www.
com By clicking on the Investor Relations tab, you will nd the Companys share price, historical closing prices and volumes and an interactive share price graph.
Alerting service To receive email alerts when financial reports, news releases and webcasts are posted on our Investor Relations website, register at: www.
com and follow the link in the section on financial performance reports and key documents.
