34 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report continued Audit and Risk Committee report Matthew Lester Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Committee composition and attendance Throughout the year the Committee The composition of the Committee was refreshed in early August when Patrick OSullivan stepped down from the Board and ceased to be a continued to be focused on the Committee member and, as the new Senior Independent Director, Phillip Colebatch joined the Committee.
In addition, Nina Shapiro stepped down integrity of the Groups financial from the Committee and was replaced by Andrew Horton who joined the reporting, risk management Board on the same day.
The breadth of experience of the Committee has been enhanced by the appointment of a fourth member in December: Dev processes and the effectiveness Sanyal.
All of the members of the Committee are independent nonofinternal controls.
In particular, executive directors and their biographies can be found on pages 26 to 27.
Andrew Horton, Dev Sanyal and I are the members considered to have itfocused on the coordination of relevant and recent financial experience.
The attendance of members at Committee meetings held during the year can be found below.
theactivities of the Finance, Risk, Attendance Compliance, Internal Audit and Legal record functions, in light of the headcount Matthew Lester Chair 6 6 1 Phillip Colebatch 2 2 reduction plan, to provide assurance 1 Andrew Horton 2 2 2 Patrick OSullivan 3 4 over the integrity of the control 3 Dev Sanyal 1 1 environment.
The Committee also 2 Nina Shapiro 4 4 ledan external audit tender process, Notes: following which a recommendation to 1 Appointed to the Committee with effect from 3 August 2013.
2 Stepped down from the Committee with effect from 3 August 2013. appoint Deloitte LLP as the external 3 Appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 December 2013. auditors was made to the Board and In addition to the above members, the Board Chairman, CEO, CFO, Chief further information on this process Risk Officer, Global Head of Compliance and Regulatory, Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller and representatives from the external can be found on page 37. auditors regularly attend the meetings.
The Committee meets privately with the Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partners after each Committee meeting and I maintain ongoing dialogue with both parties.
Committees roles, responsibilities and processes The Audit and Risk Committee forms an integral part of Mans governance framework with oversight of the Groups financial reporting, internal and external audit, risk management and regulatory compliance.
An overview of the roles and responsibilities of the Committee can be found opposite and is summarised from the full terms of reference which are available at www.
com, together with details of the standard business addressed by the Committee.
The key matters considered by theCommittee during the year can be found on pages 35 to 37.
Strategic report 35 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information The Committee receives reports and presentations from management and Key items considered during the year values the direct engagement with management from both operational and F EA governance areas.
At each meeting the Committee reviews dashboards on Financial reporting the key risks, compliance matters, financial controls framework and internal The Committee considers all key accounting judgements for the full year controls.
These are designed to provide the Committee with an update in and interim financial statements and once again the most significant these key areas and highlight any issues or changes which should be judgement made related to the valuation of the goodwill of the Groups considered by the Committee.
Items are also escalated from the Group main business units.
The Committee tested the assumptions used in the Finance and Risk Assurance Committees further details on these valuation model and agreed that no impairments to goodwill were Committees can be found on page 21 and reports from these meetings required for the six months to June 2013.
A further goodwill valuation of are submitted to every Committee meeting.
Ireport to the Board at the each business unit was undertaken for the year-end results, following following Board meeting to ensure that all directors are fully briefed on which the FRM goodwill was impaired by $69 million.
primarily related to the impairment of the legacy Man Multi-Manager business which was combined with the FRM business on acquisition All new Board directors are given a detailed induction programme and in2012.
Further information on this can be found on page 80. further information in this regard can be found at www.
As part of this programme, new members to the Committee are provided with all The Committee also reviewed the accounting judgements applied to the relevant materials, including copies of recent minutes, the Committee contingent consideration creditor which relates to the acquisition of FRM.
forward agenda and terms of reference.
In addition, each Committee The overall purchase price of FRM is dependent on management fee run stakeholder meets with the new director to provide a tailored briefing.
rates and the quantum was revised to reflect the best estimates of future payments due under the purchase agreement.
Overall, these adjustments The Committee has oversight of the functions detailed below and is have decreased the contingent consideration creditor by circa $3 million responsible for reporting its findings and any recommendations to the Board.
please see page 73 for further information.
F The Committee reviewed and approved the adjusting items in the Financial reporting consolidated financial statements to ensure that they were appropriate, Year-end and interim financial statements to ensure they give a fair, that there was consistency in treatment year on year and that they balanced and understandable view of the business and comply with provided a fair overview of the underlying profitability of the business.
For required accounting standards and regulation, with particular focus on: further information on the items included as adjusting items please refer Key accounting policies and judgements: to Note 2 to the financial statements on page 73.
Going concern statement: and Annual Report sections on Risk management and the Audit and The Committee was briefed on new reporting requirements by the Group RiskCommittee: Financial Controller and reviewed and approved the Groups approach Changes to financial reporting standards and regulations: and and revised processes to ensure compliance.
Effectiveness of the financial controls framework.
F R IA R Governance and assurance review Risk management, internal controls and compliance The Committee conducted a review of the governance functions and The effectiveness of: assessed the progress against their plans for 2013 and it was noted The Group Risk Framework including policies and processes thatgood progress had been made.
An assurance map has also been forthe identification, assessment and management of risk: developed by Internal Audit and reviewed by the Committee which maps The effectiveness of internal controls in line with Turnbull the coverage of all business areas by the second and third lines of defence guidance : and see page 21.
In addition the Committee undertook a review of the The Groups regulatory reporting activities and Compliance governance of regional offices to ensure that there was effective oversight.
In addition, the Committee reports any relevant findings in relation Following the headcount reductions across the business the Committee torisk matters which may impact the discretionary remuneration has monitored the impact of this on the internal control framework and available to all staff or individuals.
reviewed the key governance functions Risk, Compliance, Internal Audit, IA Finance and Legal in light of the headcount reduction plan.
This included Internal audit an assessment of the capabilities of key individuals within each function.
Approval of the annual Internal Audit plan and Internal Audit activities: As part of this process, the Committee also conducted deep-dive The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: and reviews of Finance and Treasury to test the impact of the headcount All significant Internal Audit recommendations and findings, and reductions in these areas.
The Committee was satisfied that the control managements response to, and progress in, addressing them.
environment continued to be effective and that in some areas the EA External audit simplification of processes had reduced risk.
Recommending the appointment of, and determining the The Committee received regular briefings on the status and development remuneration of, the external auditors, including reviewing their of the operational risk framework and monitored correspondence with the effectiveness and independence: FCA in this regard.
The good progress in this area has continued and the Review and approval of the audit plan and the auditors control Risk and Control Self-Assessment RCSA process has now been rolled procedures: out across all areas of the business.
Following the completion of the first Review of the findings of the audit and the auditors management roll-out and the commencement of the annual rolling update, the letter and ensuring appropriate action, where required: and Committee undertook an effectiveness review to establish how effectively Approval and monitoring of the policies relating to the provision the RCSA process had been embedded throughout the organisation.
ofnon-audit services by the external auditors and the hiring of personnel from the external auditors.
36 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report continued Audit and Risk Committee report continued The Committee undertook a review of the work of the GLG Systems and IA Internal Audit Controls Committee SYSC which oversees the internal controls and During the year the Internal Audit function transitioned to an outsourced compliance safeguards around discretionary trading and ensures that model provided by an independent firm, KPMG.
The Committee monitored investors are treated fairly within the GLG business unit.
Any issues arising the transition process carefully with particular focus on any impact on the from SYSC are escalated to the Risk Assurance Committee which would, business.
The transition has progressed very well and the benefits of if appropriate, escalate them to the Committee.
The Committee was leveraging the knowledge and expertise of a third party supplier have been satisfied with the controls in place to detect unusual trading patterns and recognised, not only by the Committee, but throughout the business.
During the year the Committee approved the revised 2013 plan and the R 2014 plan and comprehensive progress reports are presented at each Compliance meeting.
A detailed review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Compliance continued to be a key area of focus for the business during is planned for Q2 2014, a year after KPMG fully commenced the role.
2013 and this is expected to increase during 2014, with the continued roll-out of new rules and regulations.
The Head of Compliance and EA External audit Regulatory presents annually to the Committee on the work of the Non-audit services department and the status of key areas.
In addition, the Committee The Committee has a policy in place for the provision of non-audit services reviewed how conflicts of interests are managed across the Group by the external audit firm.
The policy prohibits the external auditors from andreceived a briefing on the breach review process within GLG.
providing services which could impact their independence, which include: R Internal capital adequacy assessment process ICAAP Services related to the Groups accounting records, financial statements The Committee reviewed the Groups ICAAP submission to the FCA and or financial information systems design and implementation: made recommendations to the Board in this regard.
During the year the Appraisal valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution-in-kind Group was reclassified from a Full Scope to a Limited Licence group reports: under FCA regulations and this reclassification resulted in revised Actuarial services: requirements for the Groups ICAAP submission to the FCA.
The Internal Audit outsourcing services: Committee particularly focused on compliance with the changed Management functions or human resources: requirements and the operational risk capital element.
The FCA has Broker dealer, investment advisor or investment banking: reviewed the submission and has confirmed the revised level of regulatory Certain taxation or capital markets services: capital to be held by the Group.
See page 19 for further information.
Litigation support services where this would involve the audit firm F EA estimating the likely outcome of a pending legal matter that could be Funds under management FUM material to the financial statements: During the year, management recommended some amendments to the Legal or legal support services which would involve the audit firm methodology applied in calculating the Groups funds under management estimating the likely outcome of a pending legal matter or representing from a fee-based approach to investment exposure.
This has made the theGroup in a dispute or litigation which is material to the financial calculation procedure more robust and auditable, and facilitates the statements: and outsourcing arrangements, as less reliance is placed on third parties to Recruitment or remuneration services relating to the filling of key provide the information required for FUM calculation.
The impact of the management positions or determining their remuneration.
change in methodology was not significant.
The Committee agreed to obtain independent verification over the actual FUM calculation process, Any potential services to be provided by the external auditors that have which will be undertaken during 2014. anexpected value of $75,000 or more, or where the pre-approved fees R inany financial year exceed $2 million in aggregate, must be approved in Service providers advance by the Committee.
The Committee has continued to monitor the Groups progress with the outsourcing initiatives detailed in last years report.
The outsourcing has The table below shows the remuneration paid to the external auditors, progressed well with minimal issues to date and the Committee has  LLP PwC and its worldwide associates, for reviewed the governance framework in place to manage the services the year ended 31 December 2013.
Year ended Year ended provided to the Group and the funds it manages.
The Committee also 31 December 31December received reports on the contingency plans which have been developed 2013 2012 and agreed with all key suppliers to ensure continuity of service.
$000 $000 R Fees payable to the Companys auditors Information technology for the audit of the Parent Company and The Committee receives an update from the Head of Technology consolidated financial statements 736 1,202 twiceper year and the Committee noted the good progress made in Other services: rationalising the Groups IT systems.
This simplification has enhanced the IT control environment, increased the robustness of the IT infrastructure The audit of the Companys subsidiaries and provided benefits to the business both through reduced costs and pursuant to legislation 1,795 2,494 enhanced functionality.
Audit-related assurance services 369 668 The Business Operational Risk department has also presented to the Tax compliance services 1,056 556 Committee on cyber-crime and the Committee challenged the Groups Tax advisory services 452 235 preparedness for an attack.
Other assurance services 687 All other services 167 891 Total auditors remuneration 4,575 6,733 Strategic report 37 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information The level of non-audit fees has reduced against 2012 primarily due to the The Committee concluded to recommend the appointment of Deloitte reduction of specific project work.
In the prior year, the external auditors onthe basis of their experienced lead partner and audit team, their use provided services in connection with the acquisition of FRM and the creation oftechnology, their proposed transition process and the value added of a new group holding company.
services identified in their proposal.
In reaching this decision, the Committee had also considered the advantages and disadvantages of Audit-related assurance services consist of fees paid for the work utilising one firm for both the corporate and fund audits.
Although the undertaken in reviewing the interim results and for the assurance reports efficiencies that would be derived from using one firm were recognised, required to be submitted to financial regulators, in particular in Switzerland.
the use of two firms was preferred on the basis of risk management and maintaining broader relationships.
Tax compliance services are provided in many of the jurisdictions in which Man operates but they primarily relate to the completion of tax returns Committee evaluation and our compliance reporting in the US.
Various state and city tax returns Last years evaluation identified three areas for further consideration and are required as well as the federal filings and in 2013 PwC completed the development during 2013 and the table below provides an update on tax returns relating to both 2011 and 2012, which accounts for the these areas.
increase from the prior year.
Tax advisory services mainly relate to 2012 evaluation 2013 progress business restructuring advice in the UK.
Increased forward looking focus Specific strategic risks have on strategic risks to supplement been considered during the year Other services primarily relate to advice in connection with the Groups the Committees extensive review and further enhancements are entity rationalisation and restructuring project.
proposed for 2014 including a presentation on emerging risks External audit tender process inQ2.
During the year, the Committee conducted a tender process for the The skills and experience of the The Committee has been external audit for the financial year ending 31 December 2014.
The tender Committee and the benefits of strengthened during the year by allowed the Committee to test the marketplace in terms of both service increasing the membership.
the appointment of Andrew Horton and price and ensured compliance with the UK Corporate Governance and Dev Sanyal, both of whom Code.
PwC, the incumbent, was first appointed as Mans auditors in 1996 bring valuable financial, operational and a full tender had not been conducted since that date.
and risk management expertise from their executive roles with The tender process closely followed the best practice guidance issued by Beazley and BP respectively.
the Financial Reporting Council in July 2013.
In October 2013, a request Providing more focused papers The quality of papers has for proposal RFP was issued to provide external audit and audit-related whilst still highlighting all relevant continued to improve throughout services covering: issues.
the year, particularly those from Internal Audit.
The audit of Mans Parent Company, the Group financial statements and those of certain subsidiaries: During the year the Committee conducted an evaluation of its Reporting, in the Annual Report, whether certain remuneration and effectiveness which was managed internally.
Questionnaires were sent governance disclosures were in accordance with applicable legislation toCommittee members and regular meeting attendees to seek their and regulations: views on the operation of the Committee.
Their responses were collated The review of the interim financial statements: and into a report and discussed at the December Committee meeting.
The The provision of regulatory and client asset reporting in various locations.
evaluation found that the Committee continued to operate effectively and added value to the business.
The following areas were identified for PwC, Ernst & Young and Deloitte were invited to tender their proposals.
development during 2014: Firms in the next tier of audit firms were considered but as a result of the Groups geographical spread none of these firms were invited to Further improvement of the mix of strategic and operational risks participate.
KPMG provides Man with internal audit services and was considered by the Committee: and therefore excluded for independence reasons.
The three participating Further development of Committee members understanding of the firms were evaluated against set criteria in the following areas: AHL operational risk and control environment.
Credentials and capabilities of the audit firm: Matthew Lester Effectiveness of the lead partner and engagement team: Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Behaviour and deliverables: and Fees and terms.
The process was led by the Committee and involved meetings with keyMan personnel followed by the submission of written proposals.
Presentations from each firm were then made to an external audit tender sub-committee who reported to the Committee.
As part of this process the effectiveness of the external auditors was assessed and no concerns were raised.
