38 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee report Jon Aisbitt Chairman Committee membership and meetings In 2013 the Committee continued All our non-executive directors are members of the Nomination Committee and I involve them as fully as possible in all areas of its work.
Meetings are itsongoing review of the Boards normally also attended by Manny Roman as CEO.
The table below shows the number of meetings held and non-executive directors attendance membership and skill base with a during the year.
Specific areas of review and action taken by the Committee specific emphasis on non-executive in 2013 are discussed in this report.
No individual participated in discussion or decision making on issues relating to them personally.
The Committees director succession planning.
It took full terms of reference can be found on our website www.
com GB anumber of actions to ensure that the nomination-committee.
Board continues to have the full range Directors attendance at Committee meetings of competencies, knowledge and Attendance record experience required for the direction Jon Aisbitt, Chairman 5 5 1 Alison Carnwath 2 2 and oversight of the business.
As part Philip Colebatch 4 5 2 of this work, it focused on the priority Andrew Horton 1 2 Frdric Jolly 5 5 areas identified for the Committees Matthew Lester 4 5 3 Patrick OSullivan 3 3 attention in the 2012 Board and 4 Dev Sanyal 1 1 Committee evaluations and Nina Shapiro 5 5 contributed its thinking and Notes: experience to the development of 1 Alison Carnwath retired from the Board on 3 May 2013.
2 Andrew Horton joined the Board on 3 August 2013. theBoards diversity policy which 3 Patrick OSullivan retired from the Board on 3 August 2013.
4 Dev Sanyal joined the Board on 1 December 2013. isdiscussed later in my report.
Non-executive director search and appointment process This was the most important area of activity for the Committee during the year.
In considering the Boards future development, our initial focus was on the further strengthening of the Audit and Risk Committees technical expertise.
We were also aware of the need to provide additional nonexecutive resource to fill the gap which would arise following Alison Carnwaths retirement from the Board at the 2013 AGM.
To progress the Audit and Risk Committee requirement, we reviewed and agreed with the Board a specification for a non-executive role which included regulatory and risk management as well as financial reporting experience.
Egon Zehnder, who have no other connection with the Company, were appointed to carry out a candidate search, drawing on their prior knowledge of Man and its executive team and their successful sourcing of previous non-executive roles.
As part of their brief, in order to Strategic report 39 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information continue to build gender diversity on the Board, the firm were asked to these factors, the number of women directors on our Board will necessarily include in their long list a good proportion of women candidates.
vary from time to time and we do not think that it is appropriate to target the achievement of a specific percentage by a given date.
We will, however, Andrew Horton continue to seek to increase the number of women on our Board as part of Following a review of the long list of candidates, a shortlist was drawn up our future non-executive search.
for interview by me, our CEO and our CFO, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and our Senior Independent Director.
Regrettably, this Our full Board diversity policy, which gives details of the measures Man process did not produce any female candidates who were interested in employs to foster and support gender diversity within the firm as a whole, and suited to the role.
I obtained both search firm and direct references isgiven on our website www.
on the Committees preferred candidate, Andrew Horton, CEO of Beazley, which confirmed his suitability.
Andrew brings us broad knowledge of Executive talent financial markets and risk and operational management from his current The Committees focus during 2013 was to support the new executive role at Beazley.
He also has extensive financial reporting and regulatory directors in their restructuring of the business and its senior management.
expertise, including that gained in his former position as Beazley CFO.
MrRoman kept us advised of all key appointments, including that of Luke Following the receipt of FCA approval of Mr Hortons candidature, the Ellis as President of Man, and the reorganisation of the sales leadership team.
Committee was pleased to recommend his appointment to the Board and to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Our Executive Committee, which is listed on page 25, currently includes two women members whose appointments have been achieved through Dev Sanyal internal promotion.
We will continue to challenge management to develop Patrick OSullivan advised us in the course of the year of his wish to stand further the female talent which exists within the firm and strengthen the down from the Board.
This prompted the Committee to consider the need pipeline of candidates available for executive roles at Man and, where for new non-executive resource and options for succession to the role of appropriate, non-executive roles outside.
Senior Independent Director previously held by Patrick.
Committee evaluation We had identified in our earlier non-executive search another strong At its December meeting, the Committee reviewed its performance and candidate, Dev Sanyal, Executive Vice President and Group Chief of Staff achievements during the year against the priorities identified in the 2012 of BP, who had expressed an interest in joining the Board later in the year.
Committee evaluation and the key elements of its ongoing mandate.
Dev was able to offer us a broad spectrum of relevant skills and Feedback received from the Board was that good progress had been made experience in line management, international operations and trading and, in the review of Board composition and non-executive succession planning, in particular, significant capital markets and investment expertise from his resulting in the appointment of two new Board members who had both former role as Group Treasurer of BP.
Following the receipt of positive financial sophistication and a good mix of strategic, risk management and search firm and direct references, and the securing of FCA approval, the operational experience.
Committee members felt that there had been a Committee was pleased to recommend Devs appointment as a member good dialogue and increased participation in the non-executive search of the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee.
process and a high level of conviction behind the candidates selected.
Opportunities for the Committee to interact informally as a group through Refreshing other non-executive director roles non-executive director dinners have been welcomed.
These occasions have The Committee took advantage of changes in the non-executive also afforded non-executives the opportunity to meet executives just below membership to refresh the roles of other continuing members.
It proposed Board level and to gain more insight into the current executive talent pool.
to the Board the appointment of Phillip Colebatch, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, as Senior Independent Director in succession Committee focus for 2014 toPatrick OSullivan.
Later in the year, after discussion of Mr Colebatchs Arising from the 2013 evaluation discussions, and from Board wholly independent outlook, challenge and contribution, we recommended developments during the year, the Committee has agreed the following that the Board should renew his appointment for a further three-year term, priorities for 2014and I look forward to reporting on progress in these subject to his annual retirement and reappointment by shareholders at areas in next years report: theAGM.
A further change in non-executive responsibility followed ourrecommendation of Nina Shapiros transfer to the Remuneration Continue the refreshing of the non-executive element of the Board.
Committee after two years service on the Audit and Risk Committee.
Focus new non-executive search on candidates with asset management and specialist Remuneration Committee expertise.
Board diversity Review Executive Committee and senior management talent The Board has further discussed its diversity policy in the light of Mans andsuccession.
available executive talent pool and the Committees non-executive search experience.
Its firm principle is to continue to make Board appointments Jon Aisbitt based on merit and overall suitability for the role.
It recognises the value Chairman that is brought to Board debate and decision making by directors with diverse geographical background, experience and outlook and strives to capture such diversity when making Board appointments.
It aims, in relation to gender diversity, to achieve an impactful percentage offemale representation on the Board in line with the spirit of the Davies recommendations while recognising the constraints arising from Mans available internal executive pool and the limited supply of external nonexecutive female candidates who meet its search criteria.
