28 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report Jon Aisbitt Chairman Board composition In this report, which follows on from As Chairman of the Board, one of my main responsibilities is to ensure that its members collectively have the right balance of skills and experience my Chairmans statement, I am required to drive the direction of the business, manage risk and monitor performance.
2013 was the first full year for our new executive director pleased todiscuss how the Board team, Manny Roman, CEO, and Jonathan Sorrell, CFO, and we are sought to provide effective leadership pleasedwith the progress they have made in securing a more appropriate and favourable regulatory status for the firm and delivering against an and governance for the development ambitious cost reduction programme.
In 2013 was also a year of significant change in our non-executive discharging these responsibilities, membership.
With the departure of two long serving non-executives, Alison Carnwath and Patrick OSullivan, and in response to the need identified in both the Board andits Committees our 2012 Board evaluation for a greater focus on non-executive succession had a full and active year.
planning and, in particular, for further strengthening of the Audit and Risk Committee, we have appointed two new non-executive directors, Andrew At the end of February, Manny Roman succeeded to the role of CEO, Horton, Chief Executive Officer of Beazley, and Dev Sanyal, Executive completing the change in the executive team which the Board had put Vice-President and Group Chief of Staff of BP.
With their broad knowledge inplace the previous year.
In Mannys year end results presentation, in of financial markets and wide ranging international and operational response to investors wish for a better understanding of our investment expertise, both are well placed to contribute to the development and proposition, he outlined the Boards view of Mans core strengths and execution of Mans strategy and risk management.
the key priorities on which the business would be focussing during 2013.
Progress on these priorities has been discussed elsewhere in the Annual The Board overall benefits from a broad mix of wholly independent Report and details of the Boards contribution to their achievement are non-executive directors who bring a range of perspectives and provided below.
experiences drawn from different business and cultural backgrounds.
Three bring valuable hands-on current experience from their external Later in the year, the Nomination Committee conducted a search for and executive roles.
Details of our Board appointment and succession recommended the appointment of two new non-executive directors to planning activities, including our policy on building diversity, are given in provide a substantial refresh of our non-executive membership.
my Nomination Committee report on page 38.
You will find full biographical details of all our directors on pages 26 and 27.
The Remuneration Committee has engaged in further consultation withshareholders on our remuneration policy and responded to Board remit and processes theirrequested change in our deferred executive compensation Matters reserved for Board decision arrangements.
To ensure that it retains control of key decisions and actions impacting the business, the Board has put in place a Schedule of matters which In line with new UK Corporate Governance Code requirements, the Audit arereserved for its decision and approval alone.
These include matters and Risk Committee conducted an audit tender which has led to the such as strategy development, annual budgets, major acquisitions and Board proposing the appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys disposals, risk appetite and risk management, borrowing and credit auditors for the 2014 financial year, subject to approval by shareholders exposure limits, executive remuneration, capital structure, dividends, at the Annual General Meeting.
Fuller details of all these actions are given Board appointments and financial results and statements.
The full in the respective Committee reports which follow.
Schedule is available on our website www.
The Board delegates all other matters to the CEO who hasestablished a detailed framework of delegated authorities for material issues and decisions across the firm in accordance with the risk appetites set by the Board.
Strategic report 29 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Board Committee structure Certain of the Boards governance functions are delegated toand supported by three dedicated Board Committees with the mandates summarised below.
The communication and coordination of the work of these Committees is achieved through regular reporting to the Board by the Committee Chairmen and the circulation of minutesand papers.
Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Review the integrity of the Companys financial Recommend to the Board for approval the Keep the Boards skill and experience base reports and statements prior to approval by principles and structure of the Companys under regular review in the light of business theBoard.
changes and agree with the Board the role specification for any proposed new Review and report to the Board on the Recommend to the Board for approval appointments.
effectiveness of Mans risk management and the quantum of the Companys variable internal controls framework.
Conduct the search and selection process for new directors and recommend proposed Recommend to the Board the appointment of Recommend to the Board for approval the appointees to the Board.
the external auditors, review the scope of their annual objectives and compensation for work and their effectiveness.
Review senior executive development and succession plans to ensure continuity of Approve the internal audit plan: review the Approve the compensation for Executive resource at, and just below, Board level.
effectiveness of internal audit: and management Committee members and FCA Code staff.
Review and recommend the renewal of nonDetermine the contractual termination terms for executive director appointments.
executive directors and any severance payments.
Audit and Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Nomination Committee report Page 34 Page 40 Page 38 FullCommittee terms of reference, which are approved by the Board, can be found on our website www.
Details of the work of the Committees during the year are givenin the separate Committee reports highlighted above.
Details of our separate but complementary responsibilities The Board met formally eight times during 2013.
At every Board meeting are given on our website www.
Manny the Board receives an update from the CEO on the performance of Mans keeps me closely advised of progress and key developments in the main funds and progress on fund flows, often supplemented by business and we jointly discuss and agree our approach to bringing presentations from investment management and sales teams.
Detailed forwardissues for discussion by the Board.
financial reporting is provided by the CFO, including analysis of results against budget, updated full year forecasts and projected run rate costs I maintain regular contact with our Senior Independent Director SID and for future years based on ongoing cost reduction.
The Board receives a test with him my thinking on Board issues and areas of focus or proposed regular Treasury update on its economic and regulatory capital position change.
Details of the SIDs particular role and responsibilities in relation and reviews movements in the Group Risk Dashboard which is updated to Board and shareholder communications and relationships are given on a monthly basis.
Significant people issues and developments in onour website www.
I also seek and acquisition opportunities are discussed in detail by the CEO.
encourage frequent dialogue with my other non-executive colleagues in order to keep abreast of and respond to their thinking, interests and any Strategy review areas of concern.
Regular discussions with the Company Secretary on In the first half of the year the Board held a one and a half day strategy agenda planning and the impacts of external regulatory developments review which commenced with a broad overview from external industry help promote appropriate and timely consideration of business and experts on current trends and future outlook for the asset management governance issues.
Input on developing regulatory impacts was provided by Mans in house risk, legal and regulatory teams.
This created Time commitment a backdrop for a detailed Board review of the performance and prospects The table on page 31 shows directors attendance at the main formal of each of Mans main investment engines, progress on distribution and Board meetings held during the year.
Where a director is unable to acquisition opportunities followed by discussion and confirmation of the participate in a meeting, I will solicit their views on key issues to be business strategy for the year ahead.
considered and ensure that their feedback is taken into account in the subsequent meeting discussions.
Board members may also be called Priorities and actions in 2013 upon at short notice between scheduled meetings to consider and The table on page 30 highlights specific areas of Board review and respond to any urgent issues or proposals which may arise.
In addition, decision during the year.
These include actions taken to progress our Ilike to arrange occasional separate meetings or dinners with nonstrategic business priorities and other key matters falling within the executives only to provide a more informal opportunity for an exchange Boards remit.
We may be joined on such occasions by key executives just below Board level to further those individuals exposure Board engagement tothe Board and develop non-executives insight into the business and Key relationships spread of management talent.
Of key importance for the effective working of the Board is the division of responsibility between my role as Chairman and that of the CEO as leader 30 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report continued Board priorities and actions during 2013 Fund performance Undertook in-depth reviews of AHL performance and research activity, including theimpacts of enhancements to the core momentum model.
Reviewed the product pipeline, team development and challenges.
Explored and analysed competitor strategies and performance including a peer case study.
Reviewed and discussed new GLG Macro, Fixed Income and Currency teams capability, product launches and priorities for 2013.
Monitored and discussed the progress of the fund of funds business following theFRMacquisition.
Growth opportunities Maintained a firm focus on asset raising and discussed potential sources of future flows.
Reinforced the strategic focus on the key US market.
Examined a range of acquisition opportunities proposed by management against agreed business diversification and asset raising objectives.
Effective distribution Reviewed and endorsed the rationalisation of the retail distribution structure, including the closure of regional offices, in line with the decline of the structured product and the shrinking market outside the US.
Reviewed and endorsed the reorientation of the sales team to match the increasing business focus on institutional flows.
Balance sheet efficiency and cost Established and obtained FCA approval of a reduced regulatory capital requirement reduction for Man in line with its change in status from a Full Scope to Limited Licence group.
Applied some of Mans surplus regulatory capital to buy back all its outstanding debt and deliver $78 million annualised interest and coupon payment savings while maintaining an adequate margin of liquidity and surplus capital to pursue acquisitions.
Challenged management on the delivery and scope of the cost reduction programme and sought assurance on its impacts on performance, the control environment and staff engagement and retention.
Risk Reviewed Mans risk appetite statements, including its operational risk capital tolerance, and approved the use of a common risk assessment grid for all operational risks within the business.
Reviewed Mans vulnerability to, and protections against, the specific risks of cybercrime.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the whole of the Groups risk management and internal control systems see separate Risk management and internal controls section on page 32.
Regulatory compliance Noted the new reporting requirements relating to the structure and content of the Annual Report and agreed proposed enhancements to Mans existing review and approval processes.
Noted the FCAs supervision priorities and work programme for 2014.
Received a presentation on FCA expectations in respect of the conduct of the UK retail business and considered Mans response in terms of product provision, marketing activities and regulatory responsibilities.
Reviewed the mapping of Mans procedures to manage conflicts of interest within the investment managers and confirmed the Boards view of their adequacy.
Planning and resources Reviewed and approved the 2014 Budget and three-year 201416 Medium Term Plan assumptions, scenarios and projections.
Reviewed the new HR business model, internal service levels, outsourced provision and risks related to the reduction of HR headcount.
Discussed the ownership and promotion of the talent agenda within the business.
Strategic report 31 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Directors attendance at main Board meetings Board evaluation In 2013, following two successive in-depth annual Board evaluations Attendance record carried out by an external third party, we chose to conduct an internal Jon Aisbitt, Chairman 8 8 exercise facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Board members were 1 Alison Carnwath 3 3 asked, through a written questionnaire, for their views on selected topics 2 Peter Clarke 1 1 and were invited to give comments and suggestions for improvement in Phillip Colebatch 8 8 each case.
The topics surveyed included areas which had been identified 3 Andrew Horton 2 3 as priorities for future focus in the 2012 evaluation, key issues handled Frdric Jolly 7 8 during 2013 and ongoing Board communication and governance Matthew Lester 7 8 processes.
The evaluation findings were submitted to, and discussed by, 4 Patrick OSullivan 5 5 the Board and priority areas of focus for 2014 agreed.
Emmanuel Roman 8 8 5 Dev Sanyal 1 1 2013 evaluation findings Nina Shapiro 8 8 Against a significant year of change encompassing a new executive team, Jonathan Sorrell 8 8 the departure of long serving non-executives, the reshaping of the business and ongoing cost reduction, the evaluation revealed positive views and progress in many areas.
There was a high degree of confidence in the new Notes: 1 Alison Carnwath retired from the Board on 3 May 2013. executive directors, their ability to work together and their communication 2 Peter Clarke retired from the Board on 28 February 2013. of business developments to non-executive colleagues.
Significant 3 Andrew Horton joined the Board on 3 August 2013. progress was recognised in the area of non-executive succession planning 4 Patrick OSullivan retired from the Board on 3 August 2013. and the discussion of the skills and experience required for future Board 5 Dev Sanyal joined the Board on 1 December 2013. roles.
The quality of reports to the Board by Committee chairmen was highly commended and provided assurance on the governance framework External appointments which had been put in place.
Positive responses on the conduct of Board I always discuss Mans Board schedule and their other business debate and the handling of areas of potential dissension provided evidence commitments with non-executive directors prior to their appointment of an open culture which encouraged the surfacing of difficult issues and toensure that they have sufficient time to give to Man.
A minimum time facilitated their resolution.
expectation is set out in their letter of appointment.
However, owing to prior fixed engagements, an occasional conflict with a Man Board meeting in a Areas of focus for 2014 directors first year of service may be unavoidable.
Non-executives also Arising from the evaluation findings and subsequent Board discussion, the seek my advice and endorsement before taking on any additional external Board has identified the following areas for particular focus during 2014: business commitments which might conflict with their responsibilities to and time available for Man.
Any external interests which are perceived to 1.
Knowledge of competitors gain further insight into competitor represent a potential conflict are reviewed by the executive directors and strategies and Mans market positioning.
A complete schedule of all directors external 2. Business knowledge continue building directors knowledge interests is circulated to the Board for information and approval on ofMans investment managers and other key business areas.
Board experience and skills add more investment management expertise through future non-executive director recruitment.
Employee talent and engagement review recruitment, motivation To provide an initial introduction to the business and its executive andretention in key risk areas and more broadly.
management, new non-executive directors are provided with a comprehensive induction programme, details of which are given on our Individual director evaluation website www.
com GB board-governance, supported by pre-meeting To provide feedback on individual directors contributions to the Board, briefing materials and follow up sessions where requested.
I regularly seek Ihad one to one private meetings with all Board members and identified feedback from our newly appointed directors on the quality and scope of potential areas of development with them.
The Senior Independent Director this programme to keep it refreshed and effective.
led a review of my own contribution as Chairman, taking on board the views of all the directors, and communicated their feedback to me.
My non-executive colleagues are always keen to develop and update their knowledge of Mans investment managers and distribution activities, which we achieve through presentations at Board and strategy review meetings and in one to one ad hoc sessions with relevant executives.
In addition, to support the particular needs of directors serving on our Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees, we regularly circulate details of external programmes on topical legal, accounting and regulatory developments which I encourage non-executives to join wherever this would be useful.
Iwas pleased to attend a number of discussion forums and seminars ongovernance developments during the year in order to keep updated onchanges in the regulatory framework within which Man operates.
32 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance report continued Risk management and internal controls The Board is required to maintain sound risk management and internal control systems, to review their effectiveness and to report on this review to shareholders.
Information on Mans risk management and internal control systems, which have been in place throughout the period and up to the date of this report, can be found in the Risk management section on pages 20 to 23.
Details of Mans risk management and internal control systems in relation to the financial reporting process, and of the Boards ongoing review of all Mans risk management and internal control systems, are given below.
Financial reporting controls The Board has delegated oversight of risk management and systems of The Group operates a financial controls framework which is designed internal control to the Audit and Risk Committee ARCom.
At each meeting toprovide assurance that proper accounting records are adequately the ARCom reviews summary dashboards for each of risk, internal controls, maintained and that financial information used within the business and the financial controls framework and compliance.
It also receives reports for publication is reliable and free from material misstatement, thereby from the Risk Assurance Committee which considers the effectiveness of safeguarding the Companys assets.
risk controls through regular review of Risk and Control Self-Assessments, risk scenarios, key risk indicators and operational risk incident reports.
This framework is managed by the Financial Controls Group through a Objective assurance on the operation and effectiveness of internal controls process whereby the control owners certify that key preventative and is provided by Internal Audit whose audit programme is targeted on the detective controls, financial statement preparation processes, material business areas and processes that are most significant in terms of the balance sheet reconciliations and entity level analytical reviews have Groups risk profile and where there are key controls on which the Group been performed and are operating effectively.
During the year a formal relies.
The report from the Chairman of the ARCom on pages 34 to 37 check and review of a sample of these certifications were performed by provides further information on how the Committee has discharged its risk the Financial Controls Manager to verify the accuracy of the reporting.
oversight responsibilities during the year.
Board review of risk management and internal control systems As part of its risk oversight responsibilities, a number of operational and The Companys systems of internal control aim to safeguard assets, regulatory matters which had occurred during the year were reported to maintain proper accounting records and provide confidence that the theARCom during the normal course of business.
Whilst Man sought to financial information used in the business and published externally is improve its processes as a result, these matters were not sufficiently robust and reliable.
The systems are designed to manage key risks, material in number or nature either to require separate disclosure or to rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, indicate that the control environment had not been working effectively.
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The systems comply with the guidance Year end review of risk management and internal controls given in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors the 2005 In addition to its ongoing monitoring of risk controls, the Board has Turnbull guidance.
conducted a specific period end review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems during the 12months and Mans risk management and internal control systems are regularly for the period up to the date of this Annual Report.
This review covered all reviewed by the Board.
The Board receives reports from line management material risks and included a review of all significant operational risk events and Group Risk on the risks to the achievement of the Groups operational and Internal Audit findings raised during the period.
The Board also and financial objectives, together with assurance that the level of risk considered the outcome of the firm-wide Risk and Control Self-Assessment sustained is consistent with and being managed in accordance with the process, the potential impact of certain risks identified by the business and Boards risk appetite.
These reports include current and forward looking the quality of the controls in place to mitigate them.
Following this review assessments of capital and liquidity adequacy and a summary the Board concluded that the Groups risk management processes were riskdashboard.
appropriate and that there were no significant weaknesses or failings in the systems of internal controls.
Strategic report 33 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Shareholder engagement Statement of compliance Institutional investors The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, The Board receives regular updates from our investor relations team applied the principles of and complied with the provisions of the UK regarding changes in the share register, feedback from institutional Corporate Governance Code dated September 2012 the Code except investors covering both top shareholders and non-holders and key in the following respects: commentary from the sell-side analyst community.
Our executive directors met with around half of our institutional shareholder base during 2013 and Provision D. 2.2 of the Code requires that the Remuneration Committee are in regular contact with analysts and other market commentators.
should have delegated responsibility for setting the remuneration of all the executive directors and the Chairman.
As Chairman, I attend results presentations to analysts and investors andatthe end of last year undertook a programme of meetings with key Executive directors remuneration institutional investors to supplement contact between investors and the At Man, the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee provide executive team.
This gave me the opportunity to hear at first hand from that the Committee should recommend, for approval by the Board, investors on their perception and concerns about the business and to individual executive directors objectives and compensation.
This is report back to my Board colleagues on their views.
The Board very much subject to the proviso that no director should participate in the approval values direct feedback of this kind and, as indicated earlier in this report, of his or her objectives or compensation.
The Board believes that, responds to such feedback wherever possible.
given the importance of motivating the executive team to deliver the Companys strategy, it is appropriate for all non-executive Board The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has continued our specific members, rather than just those who sit on the Remuneration dialogue with shareholders on our executive remuneration arrangements Committee, to determine the executive directors objectives and and responded to their suggestions for change.
As Senior Independent compensation packages.
Director, he is also available to meet shareholders to discuss any matters of concern.
Chairmans remuneration The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Board based Private investors on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
This makes We are keen to hear the views of our private shareholders and encourage the process fully transparent and allows the views of all the directors, them to use our website to access the Companys interim and annual executive and non-executive, to be taken into account.
The website also provides a wealth ofother information about the business and gives direct access to our Other information Registrars Shareview website www.
co. uk which enables Certain additional information in relation to the Companys share shareholders to manage their shareholding account online.
For specific capital, the powers of the directors and amendments to the articles of enquiries about Mans business, we provide a dedicated shareholder association that is required to be disclosed pursuant to DTR 7.2.
be found in the Directors report on pages 60 to 61.
In March 2013, we held a meeting with members of the UK Shareholders Association UKSA in London at which Jonathan Sorrell, our CFO, reported on the progress of the business and our areas of strategic focus and responded to UKSA members questions.
At our AGM in May, Manny Roman as our new CEO gave an update to shareholders on the positioning of, and outlook for, the business.
This was followed by a shareholder question and answer session covering many aspects of the Companys business as well as the resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
I look forward to welcoming shareholders to our 2014 AGM in May this year and updating them on the latest business developments.
