The Board Good corporate governance is a necessary condition I Overview Management and decision-making bodies forsustainable success in business.
The purpose of this section of the Annual Report is to demonstrate how the T The he bwin.
party digital Board oversees the interests of the Company through Audit & Risk Committee e en nt ter e tainment plc Board itsoperating structure and to explain bwin.
partys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code theCode.
The various Board committees then report Integration Committee ontheir work and then any remaining ancillary director report matters are addressed before the Statement of Ex Executive Directors Nominations Committee Directors Responsibilities.
S Sen enior io Management Team Remuneration Committee II Members The Board comprises of nine Directors and their biographies are set out on pages 60 and 61.
III Responsibility and delegation The Directors have adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board, setting out which issues must be referred to the Board for decision.
These can be categorised into a number of key areas including but not limited to: t long-term business plan, strategy, budgets and forecasts: t restructuring or reorganisation of the Group and material acquisitions and disposals: t the Groups finance, banking and capital structure arrangements: t approval of capital expenditure and financial guarantees above certain levels: t financial reporting interim and annual financial results and interim management statements : t dividend policy: t shareholder circulars, convening shareholder meetings and stock exchange announcements: t approval of the Groups remuneration policy following recommendations from the Remuneration Committee : t approval of the Groups risk management and control framework andthe appointment re-appointment of the external auditors following recommendations from the Audit & Risk Committee : and t approval of the Groups policies in relation to corporate and social responsibility, health and safety and the environment In addition, the Board has adopted a formal delegation of authority memorandum which sets out the level of authority for the Executive Directors and employees of the business below Board level to follow when managing the Groups business day-to-day.
IV Roles on the Board The responsibilities of the Chairman, CEO, CFO, Non-Executive Directors and Senior Independent Director are clearly dened and are summarised below: https: www.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 63 Chairman Chief Financial officer CFO t Overseeing the effective running of the Board t Ensuring business decisions are grounded in solid financial criteria t Ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part t Providing insight and analysis to support the CEO and other in the development and determination of the Companys strategy seniormanagers and overall commercial objectives t Leading key initiatives in finance that support overall strategic goals t Acting as the guardian of the Boards decision-making process t Funding, enabling and executing the strategy set by the CEO t Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate t Developing and dening the overall strategy for your organisation governance throughout the Company and particularly at Board level t Representing the organisations progress on strategic goals to t Overseeing effective engagement with the Companys external stakeholders variousstakeholders Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive officer CEO t Constructively challenge and contribute to the development t Running the Companys business ofstrategy t Proposing and developing the Companys strategy and overall t Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed commercial objectives, which he does in close consultation with the goals and objectives and monitoring the reporting of performance Chairman and the Board t Satisfying themselves that financial information is accurate and t Responsible, with the executive team, for implementing the decisions thatnancial controls and systems of risk management are robust of the Board and its Committees and defensible t Promoting and conducting the affairs of the Company with, the t Being responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance of executive directors and have a prime role in appointing, and where t Managing the senior management team and promoting the strategic necessary removing, senior management and in succession planning mission and goals to all Group employees Senior Independent Director t Engaging with external stakeholders and explaining the logic for and As well as performing the normal duties expected of a Non-Executive progress with the business strategy Director, the Senior Independent Director is required to: t be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contactthrough the Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve orforwhichsuch contact is inappropriate t lead the Non-Executive Directors in evaluating the performanceofthe Chairman, taking into account the views oftheExecutive Directors t maintain sufficient contact with shareholders to understand theirissues and concerns t perform such other roles and responsibilities as the Senior Independent Director as may be contemplated by the Code orbestpractice guidelines in place from time to time V Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the following committees of Directors: Audit & Risk Integration Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Helmut Kern C Manfred Bodner C Simon Duffy C Rod Perry C Per Afrell Simon Duffy Per Afrell Per Afrell Rod Perry Rod Perry Rod Perry Sylvia Coleman Sylvia Colman Norbert Teufelberger Helmut Kern C denotes Chairman of the committee.
Each committee reports separately on its work on pages 75 to 105.
64 Corporate governance vi Meetings During the year the Board and its committees met in Gibraltar and details of the number of meetings and attendance records are set out inthetablebelow: Total number of scheduled meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2013 and the number of meetings attended of the maximum number that each Director was entitled to attend Audit Audit & Risk Ethics Integration Nominations Remuneration 1 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total held in year 5 4122 4 2 Per Afrell 5 5 0 1 2 2 4 4 3 Geoff Baldwin 3 3 4 Manfred Bodner 4 5 2 2 3 Tim Bristow 3 3 3 3 1 1 Sylvia Coleman 5 5 3 3 1 1 Simon Duffy 5 5 2 2 2 2 Helmut Kern 5 5 4 4 1 1 4 4 3 5 Lewis Moonie 2 3 1 1 2 3 Rod Perry 5 5 4 4 2 2 2 2 4 4 Georg Riedl 5 5 Norbert Teufelberger 5 5 2 2 Martin Weigold 5 5 Notes 1.
During 2013 the Ethics Committee was merged into the Audit Committee to form the Audit & Risk Committee.
Per Afrell was unable to attend the Ethics Committee meeting owing to illness.
These Directors resigned from the Board during 2013.
Manfred Bodner was unable to attend one Board meeting during the year owing to an unavoidable diary clash with another important business commitment.
L ewis Moonie was unable to travel to Gibraltar for one set of meetings owing to an injury preventing him from ying.
He attended instead by telephone from the UK, but owing to the provisions in the Companys articles of association he could not be regarded as present for quorum purposes.
In addition, to the five scheduled Board meetings, two Board meetings were also convened at short notice to address issues arising from the 2010 Agreement see page 107 and the New Jersey business opportunity.
With the exception of Manfred Bodner and Tim Bristow who were unable to attend one of these meetings, all the Directors were either present or were regarded as being in attendance by telephone, because under the Companys articles of association their location prevented them being regarded as present for quorum purposes.
C. Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code Recommendations A.
1 The Role of the Board Main Principle Every company should be headed by an effective board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the company.
Supporting The boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk Principle tobe assessed and managed.
The board should set the companys strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and review management performance.
The board should set the companys values and standards andensure that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
All directors must act in what they consider to be the best interests of the company, consistent with their statutory duties.
1.1 The board should meet sufciently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
party response: be a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for its decision.
The annual report The full Board met five times in Gibraltar in 2013 should include a statement of how the board operates, including a high level statement of andisscheduled to meet at least five times in 2014. which types of decisions are to be taken by the board and which are to be delegated to Aschedule of matters specically reserved for the management.
Boards decision has been adopted.
A statement on the way in which the Board operates is included in the annual report.
1.2 The annual report should identify the chairman, the deputy chairman where there is one, bwin.
party response: the chief executive, the senior independent director and the chairmen and members of the Each Director is identied in the annual report.
It should also set out the number of meetings of the board and those number of meetings and attendance is shown in the committees and individual attendance by directors.
1.3 The company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against bwin.
party has in place directors and ofcers liability insurance.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 65 A.
2 Division of Responsibilities Main Principle There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
2.1 The roles of chairman and chief executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
party response: Thedivision of responsibilities between the chairman and chief executive should be clearly The roles of the Chairman and CEO are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
Their separate responsibilities are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
3 Chairman Main Principle The chairman should be responsible for the leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role Supporting The chairman is responsible for setting the boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, Principle inparticular strategic issues.
The chairman should also promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution ofnon-executive directors in particular and ensuring constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors.
The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The chairman should ensure effective communication with shareholders.
3.1 The chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set out in B.
party response: Achief executive should not go on to be chairman of the same company.
If exceptionally a On appointment the Chairman met the B.
1.1 board decides that a chief executive should become chairman, the board should consult independence criteria.
major shareholders in advance and should set out its reasons to shareholders at the time ofthe appointment and in the next annual report.
4 Non-executive Directors Main Principle As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals onstrategy.
Supporting Non-executive directors should scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of Principle performance.
They should satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
They are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing executive directors, and in succession planning.
4.1 The board should appoint one of the independent non-executive directors to be the senior bwin.
party response: independent director to provide a sounding board for the chairman and to serve as an Rod Perry is the appointed Senior Independent intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
The senior independent director Director SID.
shouldbe available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normalchannels of chairman, chief executive or finance director has failed to resolve or forwhich such contact is inappropriate.
4.2 The chairman should hold meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives bwin.
Led by the senior independent director, the non-executive directors should meet The Chairman of the Board meets with the Nonwithout the chairman present at least annually to appraise the chairmans performance and Executive Directors usually in relation to the Board on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate performance evaluation process.
The SID meets withNon-Executive Directors at least once a year toappraise the Chairmans performance.
4.3 Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of the company bwin.
party response: or a proposed action, they should ensure that their concerns are recorded in the board The Company Secretary is responsible for recording minutes.
On resignation, a non-executive director should provide a written statement to the concerns.
All Board minutes are reviewed by the chairman, for circulation to the board, if they have any such concerns.
1 The Composition of the Board Main Principle The board and its committee should have the appropriate balance of skills and, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Supporting The board should be of sufficient size that the requirements of the business can be met and that changes to the boards composition and that of its Principle committees can be managed without undue disruption, and should not be so large as to be unwieldly.
The board should include an appropriate combination of executive and non-executive directors and in particular, independent non-executive directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking.
The value of ensuring that committee membership is refreshed and that undue reliance is not placed on particular individuals should be taken into account in deciding chairmanship and membership of committees.
No one other than the committee chairman and members is entitled to be present at a meeting of the nomination, audit or remuneration committee, but others may attend at the invitation of the committee.
1.1 The board should identify in the annual report each non-executive director it considers to be bwin.
The board should determine whether the director is independent in character The Board has determined that Per Afrell, Sylvia and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to Coleman, Helmut Kern and Rod Perry each satisfy affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The board should state its reasons theindependence criteria.
if it determines that a director is independent notwithstanding the existence of relationships Helmut Kern and Per Afrell hold bwin.
party Rollover or circumstances which may appear relevant to its determination, including if the director: Option Plan awards, but these are a legacy of their t has been an employee of the company or group within the last five years: previous positions on the Supervisory Board of bwinInteractive Entertainment AG and were fully t has, or has had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the disclosed in the merger documentation when both company either directly, or as a partner, shareholder, director or senior employee of a body Directors were described as independent.
See the that has such a relationship with the company: Chairmans commentary on Code compliance on t has received or receives additional remuneration from the company apart from a page 74. directors fee, participates in the companys share option or a performance-related pay No Non-Executive Directors are eligible for the share scheme, or is a member of the companys pension scheme: plans currently operated by the Company.
t has close family ties with any of the companys advisers, directors or senior employees: t holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: t represents a significant shareholder: or t has served on the board for more than nine years from the date of the first election.
1.2 Except for smaller companies, at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should bwin.
party response: comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
A smaller The Company has complied with this company should have at least two independent non-executive directors.
Excluding the Chairman the Board currently has four independent Directors Rod Perry, Per Afrell, Sylvia Coleman and Helmut Kern and four nonindependent Directors Manfred Bodner, Georg Riedl, Norbert Teufelberger and Martin Weigold.
See the Chairmans commentary onCode compliance on page 74.
2 Appointments to the Board Main Principle There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
Supporting The search for board candidates should be conducted, and appointments made, on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for benets Principle of diversity on the board, including gender.
The board should satisfy itself that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the company and on the board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the board.
2.1 There should be a nomination committee which should lead the process for board bwin.
party response: appointments and make recommendations to the board.
A majority of members of the A Nominations Committee is appointed and is nomination committee should be independent non-executive directors.
The chairman or an comprised ofthreemembers, two of whom are independent non-executive director should chair the committee, but the chairman should independent.
The Chairman of the Board chairs the not chair the nomination committee when it is dealing with the appointment of a successor Nominations Committee.
A committee of three to the chairmanship.
The nomination committee should make available its terms of independent Directors has been formed to select a reference, explaining its role and the authority delegated to it by the board.
successor Chairman of the Board see the Report of the Nominations Committee on page 81.
The terms ofreference for the Nominations Committee are available on the bwin.
2.2 The nomination committee should evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience bwin.
party response: on the board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and This review takes place in conjunction with the capabilities required for a particular appointment.
In light of the need to bring in a new independent Director and thestated desire to recruit at least one woman to theBoard by the end of 2013, Sylvia Coleman was appointed an independent Director in March 2013.
2.3 Non-executive directors should be appointed for specified terms subject to bwin.
party response: re-election and to statutory provisions relating to the removal of a director.
Anyterms With the exception of Rod Perry, all the Nonbeyond six years for a non-executive director should be subject to particularly vigorous Executive Directors were appointed within the last review, and should take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the board.
Rod Perry s re-appointment on the sixth anniversary of his appointment was subject to a vigorous review bythe Nominations Committee as tohis independence.
Please see the Report of the Nominations Committee for further commentary onRod Perrys independence see page 81.
Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for a specified term, but subject to an annual performance review and to annual re-appointment at the AGM.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 67 B.
2.4 A separate section of the annual report should describe the work of the nomination bwin.
party response: committee, including the process it has used in relation to board appointments.
This The Report of the Nominations Committee can sectionshould include a description of the boards policy on diversity, including gender, befoundon pages 81 and 82.
Information on the anymeasurable objectives that it has set for implementing the policy, and progress Companys diversity policy and its implementation onachieving objectives.
An explanation should be given if neither an external search isset out in that report.
consultancy nor open advertising has been used in the appointment of a chairman or a An external search agency was engaged in the non-executive director.
Where an external search consultancy has been used, it should recruitment of Sylvia Coleman and for the recruitment beidentied in the report and a statement should be made as to whether it has any other of a new Chairman.
The external search agency, connection with the company.
SpencerStuart, has no connection with bwin.
3 Commitment Main Principle All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively B.
3.1 For the appointment of a chairman, the nomination committee should prepare a job bwin.
party response: specication, including an assessment of the time commitment expected, recognising The appointment of a successor for the current theneed for availability in the event of crises.
A chairmans other significant commitments Chairman is being overseen by a committee of should be disclosed to the board before appointment and included in the annual report.
independent Directors see the Report of the Changes to such commitments should be reported to the board as they arise, and included Nominations Committee on page 81.
Ajob inthe next annual report.
specication was prepared and the time commitment and availability are factors being takenaccount of in the selection process.
All business commitments will be disclosed prior toappointment and the new Chairman will need toobtain written consent from the Board for any proposed listed company board positions, trustee, consultancy or advisory roles and any public ofce.
3.2 The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors should be made bwin.
party response: available for inspection.
The letter of appointment should set out the expected time The letters of appointment are available for commitment.
Non-executive directors should undertake that they will have sufficient time to inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
meet what is expected of them.
Their other significant commitments should be disclosed to Thetime commitment is set out in the letters of the board before appointment, with a broad indication of the time involved and the board appointment.
should be informed of subsequent changes.
significant commitments are disclosed and discussed with the Board prior to appointment and subsequent changes notied to the Board.
3.3 The board should not agree to a full time executive director taking on more than one nonbwin.
party response: executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a company.
No Executive Director is a non-executive director ofaFTSE 100 company.
4 Development Main Principle All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
Supporting The chairman should ensure that the directors continually update their skills and the knowledge and familiarity with the company required to Principle fullltheir role both on the board and on board committees.
The company should provide the necessary resources for developing and updating itsdirectors knowledge and capabilities.
To function effectively, all directors need appropriate knowledge of the company and access to its operations and staff.
4.1 The chairman should ensure that new directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction bwin.
party response: on joining the board.
As part of this, the company should offer to major shareholders the A full induction programme is provided to new opportunity to meet a new non-executive director.
Directors which is specically tailored to the needs and experience of the new Director and the committees on which they sit.
Major shareholders can meet new Non-Executive Director on request, but to date have not asked to do so.
4.2 The chairman should regularly review and agree with each director their training and bwin.
The Chairman meets with each Director from time to time to discuss their training and development needs usually following the annual Board performance evaluation process.
5 Information and Support Main Principle The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Supporting The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Management has an obligation to provide Principle such information but directors should seek clarification or amplication where necessary.
Under the direction of the chairman, the company secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good information ows within the board and its committees and between senior management and non-executive directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required.
The company secretary should be responsible for advising the board through the chairman on all governance matters.
5.1 The board should ensure that directors, especially non-executive directors, have access to bwin.
party response: independent professional advice at the companys expense where they judge it necessary to The Board has adopted a formal written process discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Committees should be provided with sufficient enabling any Director to seek independent resources to undertake their duties.
All Board committees are given access to sufficient resources in order for them to carry out their duties effectively.
For instance, committees have the authority to engage third-party experts to assist the Directors with fullling the remit of the committee e. g. The Remuneration Committees engagement of PwC and Spencer Stuart being retained by the Committee of independent Directors for the new Chairman selection process.
5.2 All directors should have access to the advice and services of the company secretary, who bwin.
party response: isresponsible to the board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both the The Company Secretary is available to all Directors to appointment and removal of the company secretary should be a matter for the board as offer guidance and advice on corporate governance, awhole.
company law and share plan matters.
The Company Secretary is the guardian of all Board procedures and advises the Chairman and other Directors when required.
The removal of the Company Secretary is a decision for the whole Board under the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board.
6 Evaluation Main Principle The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Supporting The chairman should act on the results of the performance evaluation by recognising the strengths and addressing the weaknesses of the board Principle and, where appropriate, proposing new members be appointed to the board or seeking the resignation of directors.
Individual evaluation should aim to show whether each director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role including commitment of time for board and committee meetings and any other duties.
Evaluation of the board should consider the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company on the board, its diversity, including gender, how the board works together as a unit, and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
6.1 The board should state in the annual report how performance evaluation of the board, its bwin.
party response: committees and its individual directors has been conducted.
In 2013 and 2014, the Board has engaged a third-party corporate governance specialist, Lintstock Limited, to undertake a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board in 2013.
This evaluation process requires each Director to answer a series ofquestions on the performance of the Board, the Chairman, themselves and the Board committees.
The results are then reviewed by the Chairman and the SID before being presented to the Nominations Committee and the Board once the Chairman had discussed the conclusions of the review with eachDirector individually.
In 2014, the timing of completing the evaluation assessment is being builtaround the appointment of the new Board Chairman in order toaid the succession process.
6.2 Evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every bwin.
The external facilitator should be identied in the annual report and a statement Lintstock Limited has been engaged since 2012 to should be made available as to whether they have any other connection with the company.
Lintstock Limited has no other connection with bwinparty.
6.3 The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, should be bwin.
party response:  evaluation of the chairman, taking into account the views Each year, as part of the performance evaluation ofexecutive directors.
ofthe Board and its Directors which includes contributions from the Executive Directors, the SIDmeets with all the Non-Executive Directors to review the results of the Chairmans evaluation.
TheSID then presents these nding to the Chairman and the rest of the Board.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 69 B.
7 Re-election Main Principle All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
7.1 All directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
party response: Allother directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general Each Director stood for re-appointment at the 2013AGM meeting after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than and, except for Simon Duffy who has decided notto three years.
Non-executive directors who have served longer than nine years should be seek re-appointment, will stand forre-appointment at subject to annual re-election.
The names of directors submitted for election or re-election the 2014 AGM.
The names andbiographies of all the should be accompanied by sufficient biographical details and any other relevant information Directors together with tenure information and roles to enable shareholders to take an informed decision on their election.
are set out in the 2014 AGM notice.
7.2 The board should set out to shareholders in the papers accompanying a resolution to elect bwin.
party response: anon-executive director why they believe an individual should be elected.
The chairman A supporting explanation is set out in the 2014 should confirm to shareholders when proposing re-election that, following formal AGMnotice and the Chairman gives the required performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and to conrmation at the AGM.
demonstrate commitment to the role.
C. ACCOUNTABILITY C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting Main Principle The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Supporting The boards responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports Principle and reports to regulators as well as to information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
The board should establish arrangements that will enable it to ensure that the information presented is fair, balanced and understandable.
C. 1.1 The directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility for preparing the annual bwin.
party response: report and accounts, and state that they consider the report and accounts, taken as a whole, See the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for page 109 shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
There should be a statement by the auditor about their reporting responsibilities.
C. 1.2 The directors should include in the annual report an explanation of the basis on which the bwin.
party response: company generates or preserves value over the longer term the business model and the See the Strategic report on pages 4 to 41. strategy for delivering the objectives of the company.
C. 1.3 The directors should report that the business is a going concern, with supporting bwin.
party response: assumptions or qualications as necessary.
See the statement in the Directors Report on page108.
C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control Main Principle The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Theboard should maintain a sound risk management and internal control systems.
C. 2.1 The board should, at least annually, conduct a review of the effectiveness of the groups risk bwin.
party response: management and internal control systems and should report to shareholders that they have Reviews are conducted at the Audit Committee and done so.
The review should cover all material controls, including financial, operational and Audit & Risk Committee meetings throughout the compliance controls.
year and disclosed in Report of the Audit & Risk Committee on pages 7579.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors Main Principle The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditor.
C. 3.1 The board should establish an audit committee of at least three, or in the case of smaller bwin.
party response: companies two, independent non-executive directors.
In smaller companies the company An Audit Committee now superseded by the Audit & chairman may be a member of, but not chair, the committee in addition to the independent Risk Committee has been established.
The non-executive directors, provided he or she was considered independent on appointment as Committee has four independent Non-Executive chairman.
The board should satisfy itself that at least one member of the audit committee Directors.
Helmut Kern, the committees Chairman, has recent and relevant financial experience.
has recent and relevant financial experience.
70 Corporate governance C. 3.2 The main role and responsibilities of the audit committee should be set out in written terms bwin.
party response: of reference and should include: The Board has adopted terms of reference for the Audit & Risk Committee that include these duties.
t to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the company, and any formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: t to review the companys internal financial controls and, unless expressly addressed by a separate board risk committee composed of independent directors, or by the board itself, to review the companys internal control and risk management systems: t to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: t to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the shareholders fortheir approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: t to review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: t to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit rm, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to steps to be taken: and t to report to the board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
C. 3.3 The terms of reference of the audit committee, including its role and the authority delegated bwin.
party response: to it by the board, should be made available.
The terms of reference for the Audit & Risk Committee are available on the Companys website.
C. 3.4 Where requested by the board, the audit committee should provide advice on whether the bwin.
party response: annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and This has been done, please see the Report of the provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, Audit & Risk Committee on pages 7579. business model and strategy.
C. 3.5 The audit committee should review arrangements by which staff of the company may, in bwin.
party response: confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or The Audit & Risk Committee has reviewed the other matters.
The audit committees objective should be to ensure that arrangements are in Companys adopted Whistleblowing policy.
place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for SeetheReport of the Audit & Risk Committee appropriate follow-up action.
C. 3.6 The audit committee should monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit bwin.
Where there is no internal audit function, the audit committee should consider The Audit & Risk Committee monitors and reviews the annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function and make a recommendation effectiveness of internal audit activities throughout to the board, and the reasons for the absence of such a function should be explained in the the year see the Report ofthe Audit & Risk relevant section of the annual report.
TheCompany has an Internal Audit Department.
C. 3.7 The audit committee should have primary responsibility for making a recommendation on bwin.
party response: the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
FTSE 350 companies This recommendation requirement is provided for should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
If the board does inthe Audit & Risk Committees terms of reference.
not accept the audit committees recommendation, it should include in the annual report, The Companys policy on putting the external audit and in any papers recommending appointment or re-appointment, a statement from the contract out for tender at least every 10 years is dealt audit committee explaining the recommendation and should set out reasons why the board with on page 79 of the Report of the Audit & Risk has taken a different position.
The Audit & Risk Committee has recommended the re-appointment of the current external auditors and this has been accepted by theBoard.
C. 3.8 A separate section of the annual report should describe the work of the committee in bwin.
party response: discharging its responsibilities.
The report should include: These matters are all addressed in the Report of the Audit & Risk Committee on pages 7579. t the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how these issues were addressed: t an explanation of how it has assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process andthe approach taken to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor, andinformation on the length of tenure of the current audit rm and when a tender waslast conducted: t and, if the external auditor provides non-audit services, an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 71 D. REMUNERATION D. 1 The Level and Components of Remuneration Main Principle Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the company successfully, buta company should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
A significant proportion of executive directors remuneration shouldbe structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
Supporting The performance-related elements of executive directors remuneration should be stretching and designed to promote the long-term Principle successofthecompany.
The remuneration committee should judge where to position their company relative to other companies.
But they should use suchcomparisons with caution, in view of the risk of an upward ratchet of remuneration levels with no corresponding improvement in performance.
They should also be sensitive to pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group, especially when determining annual salary increases.
D. 1.1 In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration, the remuneration committee bwin.
party response: should follow the provisions in Schedule A to this Code.
The current share plans comply with Schedule A. Seethe Directors Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 105 for a description of the current arrangements.
D. 1.2 Where a company releases an executive director to serve as a non-executive director bwin.
party response: elsewhere, the remuneration report should include a statement as to whether or not the The Executive Directors do not hold any nondirector will retain such earnings and, if so, what the remuneration is.
executive directorships outside the Group for which they receive a fee.
D. 1.3 Levels of remuneration for non-executive directors should reect the time commitment and bwin.
party response: responsibilities of the role.
Remuneration for non-executive directors should not include The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors and the share options or other performance-related elements.
If, exceptionally, options are granted, Chairman reect the time commitment expected of shareholder approval should be sought in advance and any shares acquired by exercise of the and risks attaching to the roles.
options should be held until at least one year after the non-executive director leaves the In 2011, the bwin Directors joining the Board on the board.
Holding of share options could be relevant to the determination of a non-executive merger of bwin Interactive Entertainment AG and directors independence as set out in provision B.
PartyGaming Plc had their bwin FMV options converted into bwin rollover FMV options.
The Chairman of the Integration Committee has participated in the VCP and BBP.
There is no intention for Non-Executive Directors to participate in the Companys BIP or any other share plans see the Chairmans commentary on Code compliance on page74.
D. 1.4 The remuneration committee should carefully consider what compensation commitments bwin.
party response: including pension contributions and all other elements their directors terms of On the departure of an Executive Director the appointment would entail in the event of early termination.
The aim should be to avoid Remuneration Committee diligently considers the rewarding poor performance.
They should take arobust line on reducing compensation to compensation obligations of the Company, with the reect departing directors obligations to mitigate loss.
aim of avoiding reward for poor performance, which is aided by the current notice terms and the rules of the BIP.
A robust line is taken where possible to reduce compensation pay-outs to reect any obligations of the departing individual to mitigateloss.
D. 1.5 Notice or contract periods should be set at one year or less.
If it is necessary to offer longer bwin.
party response: notice or contract periods to new directors recruited from outside, such periods should Currently the notice period for the Executive reduce to one year or less after the initial period.
Directors is one year, for the Chairman six months and for the Non-Executive Directors, three months.
72 Corporate governance D. 2 Procedure Main Principle There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for xing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Supporting The remuneration committee should consult the chairman and or chief executive about their proposals relating to the remuneration of other Principle executive directors.
The remuneration committee should also be responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive director remuneration.
Where executive directors or senior management are involved in advising or supporting the remuneration committee, care shouldbetaken to recognise and avoid conicts of interest.
The chairman of the board should ensure that the company maintains contact as required with its principal shareholders about remuneration.
D. 2.1 The board should establish a remuneration committee of at least three or, in the case of bwin.
party response: smaller companies, two independent non-executive directors.
In addition the company See the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 104 chairman may also be a member of, but not chair, the committee if he or she was considered and 105.
ARemuneration Committee has been independent as chairman.
The remuneration committee should make available its terms appointed comprising four independent Nonofreference, explaining its role and the authority delegated to it by the board.
The Committees terms of remuneration consultants are appointed, they should be identied in the annual report reference are available on the Companys website.
andastatement made as to whether they have any other connection with the company.
The remuneration consultants are identied in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 105, together with a description of other work the rm has done for the Group.
D. 2.2 The remuneration committee should have delegated responsibility for setting remuneration bwin.
party response: for all executive directors and the chairman, including pension rights and any compensation The Remuneration Committee has the authority to payments.
The committee should also recommend and monitor the level and structure of set the remuneration of all the Executive Directors, remuneration for senior management.
The denition of senior management for this purpose the Chairman and all senior management reporting should be determined by the board but should normally include the first layer of into the CEO.
D. 2.3 The board itself or, where required by the Articles of Association, the shareholders should bwin.
party response: determine the remuneration of the non-executive directors within the limits set in the The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a Articles of Association.
Where permitted by the Articles, the board may however delegate this matter for the Board on the recommendation of the responsibility to a committee, which might include the chief executive.
D. 2.4 Shareholders should be invited specically to approve all new long-term incentive schemes bwin.
party response: as dened in the Listing Rules and significant changes to existing schemes, save in the All long-term incentive plans have been approved by circumstances permitted by the Listing Rules.
shareholders, including the BIP, which was approved on 24 February 2014 after an extensive consultation process with major shareholders.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 73 E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders Main Principle There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Supporting Whilst recognising that most shareholder contact is with the chief executive and finance director, the chairman should ensure that all directors are Principle made aware of their major shareholders issues and concerns.
The board should keep in touch with shareholder opinion in whatever ways are most practical and efficient.
E. 1.1 The chairman should ensure that the views of shareholders are communicated to the board bwin.
The chairman should discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders.
The Chairman ensures that the views expressed by Non-executive directors should be offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders are shared with the Board, with shareholders and should expect to attend them if requested by major shareholders.
The sufficient opportunity given to the Directors to senior independent director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major discuss issues.
In addition, following investor shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding roadshows, the CEO and CFO share feedback received oftheissues and concerns of major shareholders.
from shareholders with the Board.
When meeting major shareholders the Chairman discusses corporate governance and strategy matters and NonExecutive Directors are always welcome to attend meetings if acceptable to the shareholder.
The SID remains available to meet with major shareholders and met with a number of major shareholders in 2013.
E. 1.2 The board should state in the annual report the steps they have taken to ensure that bwin.
party response: themembers of the board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an Clear communication lines have been established understanding of the views of major shareholders about the company, for example between the Directors and the trustees of the throughdirect face-to-face contact, analysts or brokers briengs and surveys of Emerald Trust, Stinson Trust and founding bwin shareholderopinion.
shareholders, which equates in total to 14.3% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Chairman, CEO, CFO and Communications Director keep Directors informed of communications with other shareholders and analyst and broker reports are circulated to the Directors.
All Directors remain available to meet with major shareholders, although in practice the latter usually only want to meet with the Executive Directors, Chairman and occasionally the SID and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee who currently is also the SID.
E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM Main Principle The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
E. 2.1 At any general meeting, the company should propose a separate resolution at the AGM on bwin.
party response: each substantially separate issue and should in particular propose aresolution at the AGM Each item of business has been or will be dealt with relating to the report and accounts.
For each resolution, proxy appointment forms should by a separate resolution at the 2013 and 2014 AGMs.
provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote either for or against the Forms of proxy include an abstain box against each resolution or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form and announcement of the results of a resolution.
Forms of proxy shareholders and vote should make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in direction depositary interest holders and AGM and the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
EGM results announcements include an explanation on the status of a vote withheld.
E. 2.2 The company should ensure that all valid proxy appointments received for general meetings bwin.
party response: are properly recorded and counted.
For each resolution, after a vote has been taken, except The Companys registrar produces voting reports and where taken on a poll, the company should ensure that the following information is given at attends the AGM.
All resolutions presented at the meeting and made available as soon as reasonably practicable on a website which is shareholder general meetings are decided on a poll maintained by, or on behalf of, the company: and voting results announced to the London Stock Exchange and published on the bwin.
t the number of shares in respect of which proxy appointments have been validly made: t the number of votes for the resolution: t the number of votes against the resolution: and t the number of shares in respect of which the vote was directed to be withheld.
E. 2.3 The chairman should arrange for the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination bwin.
party response: committees to be available to answer questions at the AGM and for all directors to attend.
All the Directors are usually present at the AGM.
E. 2.4 The company should arrange for the Notice of the AGM and related papers to be sent to bwin.
party response: shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Notice of AGM and related documentation are always posted more than 20 working days before theAGM.
74 Corporate governance Chairmans commentary on Code Compliance The Company endeavours to comply with the recommendations of the Code.
From 1 January 2013 to date, bwin.
party has not complied with these recommendations in the following respects: Board independence B.
1.1 of the Code For the period 1 January 2013 to 15 January 2013 less than half the Board was determined to be independent in the year.
Since 15 January 2013 this matter has been rectied and the Board has complied with the recommendation that, excluding the Chairman, at least half of the Board should beindependent.
Share options granted to Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Integration Committee participating in performance related remuneration plans D. 1.3 of the Code Prior to the merger, fair market value FMV options were granted by bwin Interactive Entertainment AG to Per Afrell, Helmut Kern and Georg Riedl, members of that companys supervisory board.
bwin was an Austrian company listed on the Vienna stock exchange and not subject to UK corporate governance conventions.
The rules of the bwin FMV option plans did not provide for crystallisation of value on a merger and therefore the value had to be rolled into new fair market value options under the bwin.
party Rollover Option Plan ROP, a new Company share plan adopted for bwin option holders at the time of the merger.
This plan was approved by shareholders.
Manfred Bodner, former Co-CEO of bwin also had FMV options under the bwin FMV option plans that rolled into new FMV options awarded under the ROP.
The Board has concluded that these legacy FMV options held by Per Afrell and Helmut Kern do not undermine a determination that both these Directors are independent, given the circumstances of the grant, the quantum of the awards relative to the size of their annual fees and that no further share awards will be made to any of the Non-Executive Directors.
It should be noted that Per Afrell and Helmut Kern have not exercised their FMV options and will only do so once they have left the Board and then only after 12 months from their departure date.
Manfred Bodner has participated in the Companys Bonus Banking Plan and Value Creation Plan in recognition of his role as Chairman of the Integration Committee.
This role has been important in overseeing that management implements an effective integration of the bwin and PartyGaming businesses given that many merging businesses fail to deliver the synergy savings and other benets from a consolidation.
In recognition of the importance and special duties of the role, the Chairman of the Integration was permitted to participate in the BBP and VCP.
Theseshare plans have now ceased to operate and the role of the Chairman of the Integration Committee will terminate on 31 March 2014.
Fromthisdate Manfred Bodner will not participate in any of the Companys performance related remuneration plans.
Simon Duffy Chairman 13 March 2014 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 75 t meet with the external auditors post-audit at the reporting stage to Audit & Risk Committee Report discuss the audit, including problems and reservations arising from Introduction the audit, and any matters the auditor may wish to discuss in the During 2013, the Board decided to merge the Ethics Committee with the absence of management, where appropriate : Audit Committee to form the Audit & Risk Committee ARC.
By way of t make recommendations to the Board concerning any proposed, background, the Ethics Committee was formed at the time of newor amended accounting policy: PartyGaming Plcs initial public offering in 2005.
Owing to the infancy t monitor and review the internal audit programme and and rapid pace of change of the issues surrounding the online gaming itseffectiveness: sector, it was helpful at that time to have a separate Board Committee t ensure co-ordination between the ofcers responsible for internal focusing on corporate social responsibility CSR issues.
Since 2005 the audit and the external auditors, and that the internal audit function sector and the Company have evolved signicantly, so last year the isadequately resourced and has appropriate standing within Board considered it an opportune moment to consider merging the bwin.
party: Ethics Committee into the ARC, particularly as the Audit Committee already monitored risks identied by the business so it made sense to t consider any major audit recommendations and the major findings extend its remit to cover CSR risks as well.
This decision was taken with ofinternal investigations and managements response in the the support of both Committees.
Onbehalf of my fellow ARC members absence of management, where appropriate : Iwould like to thank Tim Bristow for chairing the Ethics Committee from t monitor and review bwin.
partys systems for internal control, 2007 to 2013. financial reporting and risk management: and t review the individual internal audit reports covering various areas Membership and activities of the business.
During 2013 there were three changes to the Committees membership.
Sylvia Coleman was appointed a member on 8 March 2013 following her In addition, in relation to the oversight of CSR issues the ARC appointment to the Board and Tim Bristows membership lapsed on ensuresthat the Group has policies and effective controls regarding 23September 2013 when he stepped down from the Board.
Finally, Per thefollowing: Afrell was appointed a member of the ARC on 13 December 2013.
Rod t responsible gaming, including the prevention of underage or Perry and myself remain members of the Committee.
Iam an Austrian problemgambling: certied management consultant and have a degree in economics and business administration majoring in accountancy.
I serve on various t compliance with the gaming and financial services licences held by boards where I oversee the preparation of financial statements and the the Company or any of its subsidiaries: external audit.
Therefore, I am regarded as the Committee member with t gambling licence probity matters: recent and relevant financial experience.
All members of ARC have been t anti-money laundering: determined by the Board to be independent Directors and therefore we t the fairness and integrity of the Companys gaming and trading comply with the Codes recommendation that an audit committee systems and the process for managing any challenges to the fairness comprises of at least three independentDirectors.
and or integrity of these systems: Terms of reference t privacy and data protection: ARCs terms of reference can be found on the bwin.
party website at t employment matters relating to codes of conduct and health http: www.
com AboutUs CorporateGovernance media andsafety: .
ashx, but in summary the main t charitable donations and investment in the local community: responsibilities of ARC are to: t the Companys suppliers and service providers: and t consider and make recommendations to the Board as regards the t the Companys impact on the environment.
appointment of the head of the internal audit function and the external auditors as well as the re-appointment of the latter: Business during the year t recommend the audit fee to the Board and develop and recommend During 2013 the Audit Committee and Ethics Committee met three times to the Board bwin.
partys policy in relation to the provision of nonand once respectively before meeting once in the revised ARC format.
audit services by the external auditor: The main items of business addressed at these meetings were: t monitor the integrity of the financial statements of bwin.
party and t 2012 annual financial statements and reports: any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and to review, and challenge where necessary, the t the results of the 2012 annual external audit process, the audit report actions and judgements of management in relation to the half-year and the letter of representation from management: and annual financial statements before submission to the Board: t the independence of the external auditors and their terms ofengagement: t the external auditors letter to management following the 2012 annual audit and managements responses to the recommendations made in the letter: t the re-appointment of the external auditors at the 2013 AGM: t the latest register of Identied risks in the business and the controls put in place by management to mitigate these risks: 76 Corporate governance t status reports from the Companys internal audit Provisions for legal and regulatory compliance departmentshaving received full internal audit reports The ARC keeps abreast of all known or potential regulatory or legal betweenCommittee meetings: claims against the Group that may arise from the Groups operations.
t the external auditors 2013 audit plan: The Committee receives periodic updates at every occurrence of the ARC t annual review of the Audit Committee and Ethics Committees meetings from internal and external legal advisers.
During the year, the workand terms of reference: ARC reviewed the likelihood of the outcomes of various claims currently lodged against the Group and or its Board members as disclosed in t an updated treasury policy: note25 to the financial statements.
t 2013 half-year results: A fair value provision set up at the time of the merger in respect of t external auditor interim review of the half-year results and the legaland regulatory compliance has been credited to the consolidated required letter of representation from management: statement of comprehensive income for 83.8m following the t the Groups approach to managing cyber-security: settlement of enquiries into earlier periods.
The ARC has considered t the external auditors 2013 audit plan: theterms of settlement, reviewed the external advice received and discussed with the matter with the Groups Director of Taxation and t the Companys external audit tendering policy: concluded that the release of the provision is appropriate.
Further t gaming and financial services licence compliance: details can be found in note 21 on page 139. t updates on anti-money laundering reporting monitoring: and Revenue Recognition t amendment of the charitable donation policy.
The ARC reviewed the judgements made in respect of revenue The issues arising from some of these matters are dealt with in recognition and considered the accounting policies adopted.
particular the ARC assessed the recognition of revenue from new Financial statement topics contracts, which involved a review of key contracts.
The Groups internal audit function incorporate the area of revenue recognition into their During the course of the year, ARC determined the following areas of annual review cycle and report to the ARC on the appropriateness of the thenancial statements were of significant interest.
These issues were controls in operation and policies adopted.
External audit performed discussed with management and the external auditors when ARC detailed audit procedures on revenue recognition and reported their reviewed and agreed the auditors Group audit plan, when the Groups findings to the Committee.
The ARC was satisfied as a result of the half-year interim results were reviewed and at the conclusion of the review process that the treatment adopted in preparing the financial audit of the full years financial statements.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Taxation As detailed further in note 12 to the financial statements, the carrying During the year, the Board reviewed the Groups tax strategy and amount of goodwill and intangibles at 31 December 2013 amounts to considered whether it was aligned with the Groups commercial 626.1m.
Of this total, specic attention was paid to the Bingo Cash strategy, corporate responsibility position, approach to corporate Generating Unit CGU.
The proposed Point of Consumption tax in the governance, the attitude to risk and the Groups business models.
The UK gave rise to a review of this CGU as the majority of its revenues Board also reviewed external parameters, including the impact on the derived from UK-based customers.
A detailed review of managements tax strategy of the changing tax environment.
The Board concluded assumptions was performed.
Goodwill allocated to Bingo amounts to that the adopted tax strategy is appropriate, supporting the Groups 73.1m of the total 265.0m and other acquired intangibles stood at business strategy whilst simultaneously managing risk effectively.
There are also 2.7m of other intangibles associated to the bingo Owing to the dynamic nature of the online gaming sector the Board CGU, giving a total carrying value of 86.3m.
hasdecided to review the Groups tax strategy at least once a year.
The impact to the Group of the introduction of the tax results in the valuation of the CGU exceeding the carrying value by 16.0m and thus indicating that no impairment charge is necessary.
The ARC has challenged the assumptions used, considered sensitivities and other scenarios and discussed the best estimate of the tax consequences withthe Group Director of Tax.
Revenues generated from the UK in other product verticals have an immaterial impact on impairment reviews for the other CGUs.
Other impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets show no indicators of an impairment.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 77 Risk management and controls bwin.
party maintains a robust system of internal control for the bwin.
partys internal auditors performed internal audits of ofces purpose of safeguarding the investment of shareholders in the anddepartments within the business to assess whether adequate Company and the Groups assets.
At least annually the Board conducts a internal controls are in place to protect the Group, its employees and review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, shareholders.
The internal audit reports are presented to the ARC and covering all material controls, including financial, operational and the Head of Internal Audit meets regularly with the ARC as well as the compliance controls and risk management systems.
partys Chairman of the ARC, to whom he has direct access.
system of internal control reduces the probability that business risks The Board, with the support of the Audit & Risk Committee, has might impede the Company in achieving its objectives, but it cannot completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the internal eliminate these risks and can therefore provide only reasonable, not systemof control, and is satisfied that it is robust and in accordance absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has an internal audit department, which also carries out the During the year, the Head of Risk ran workshops with different Companys risk management monitoring.
During the year, management departments across the Group which allowed the Groups risk register identied the risks attaching to the business and, on an ongoing basis, to be updated.
The following table sets out the key risks identied by efforts are being taken to mitigate these risks.
Throughout the year theAudit & Risk Committee and the steps taken to mitigate these risks: Risks Mitigating factors IT system migration and integration projects A new Director of Product and Technology was appointed in 2013.
The method of development for IT operations has been moved to AGILE in order to enhance all key projects as well as the development of The ability to accomplish complex IT system migration and software and product migrations.
Having already migrated 80% of the Groups players onto the new integration projects on time and to the required quality.
single platform, a lot of experience has been gained which will help mitigate the previous issues which bwin.
party develops and maintains our own systems, have occurred.
As part of the oversight and assurance process, the Audit & Risk Committee asked product portfolios and platform.
Being in control of our internal audit to review the platform product management and development as well as poker own software has been a key driver of our success and technology and sports betting technology.
These reports were discussed in the Audit & Risk allows us to differentiate our offer from those of our Committee meetings andthekey recommendations were added to the Groups risk register.
During competitors but also to move quickly in response to 2013, 15 individual riskmeetings and workshops were held with management of the IT team across all changes to regulatory and consumer requirements.
To key locations andthe corresponding risks were put into the Group risk register and discussed at the increase our ability to leverage our key assets and minimise Audit & Risk Committeemeetings.
costs a single product platform is being rolled out across all markets.
This creates complex IT projects, specically around player migration which is due to happen for Dot FR and Dot IT in 2014.
Failure to carry these out to the required timescale and quality will impact upon the customer which can lead to a reputational and financial loss to the Group.
Customer service Customer services have had to cover all products, platforms and markets of the combined Group.
For this reason they have not been part of the core synergies of the merger until a time that the products, The relationship with our customers is managed in many platforms and markets are all migrated and aligned.
Following on from the initial migration to the differing ways across the Group.
One key point of contact target platform, the Audit & Risk Committee requested internal audit to carry out a detailed review of with our customers is customer services.
Professional the Group customer services function.
This review looked at ongoing operations and specically at the customer support is essential for maintaining customer issues around platform migration.
This report was discussed with the Audit & Risk Committee and key satisfaction by making their journey through our system management recommendations were made.
These key recommendations were also added to the aseasy as possible.
Group risk registerto ensure visibility and monitor the mitigating actions taken.
During 2013, two Our customer service units operate internationally, individual riskmeetings and workshops were held with management of the customer services team providing local-language support on a wide range of topics across all key locations and the corresponding risks were put into the Group risk register and including account queries and complaints mitigation, as discussed at an Audit & Risk Committee meeting.
well as performance, quality and incident management.
Trained to address issues on each of these areas they are available around the clock via telephone and email and aim to respond as quickly as possible.
Customer services are often the first point of contact when things go wrong and therefore are key to having an input into maintaining the reputation of the Groups products and portfolios.
Failure to manage customer contact can lead to reputational damage as well as financial risk.
party the customer is king, because we know that thepotential business penalty for not providing great service is very real and potentially very large with one click customers can leave and go to a competitor.
78 Corporate governance Risks Mitigating factors Loss of intellectual property Under the new Director of Product and Technology, an IT governance team has been created to enhance the protection and security of the Groups IT-based operations.
The Group is alsoworking The Group develops its own software, products, platform towards ISO 27001 accreditation and has been enhancing the ability to monitor and review the and systems.
This gives the Group a dynamic advantage Groups internal security processes.
Further to this, the Audit & Risk Committee requested internal over most of our competitors as the Group is in control audit to carry out an Initial ISO 27001 review to ensure that the controls and monitoring were working ofits key offering to the customer.
As this is all bespoke as per requirements.
This was reported to the Audit & Risk Committee, discussed with its members and development, a lot of Intellectual property is created recommendations for improvement made to management.
The change for the Group to Agile whichbenets the Group and could damage the development has meant allteams will now be working towards standard processes and procedures competitive nature of our products if it was released across the Group.
The reviews by internal audit of platform, poker technology and sports betting toourcompetitors or put in the public domain.
Loss of technology which were carried out on behalf of the Audit & Risk Committee also gave assurance over theGroups intellectual property could lead to both this area.
During 2013, 15individual risk meetings and workshops were held with management of the reputational risk damaging the trust our investors and IT team across all key locations and the corresponding risks were put into the Group risk register and customers have in the Group and financial risk if our discussed at ARCmeetings.
competitors were able to copy ourproducts.
Gaming legislation threatens the business The Group has a dedicated regulatory affairs department which works to lobby governments for legislation that both meets the needs and desires of the regulators whilst remaining commercially The Group operates in many markets across the world.
attractive to ensure that regulated companies are not at a significant disadvantage to unregulated Akey strategy of the Group is to focus on regulated and tocompanies.
This department works with the Groups lawyers to produce regular updates for the Board be-regulated markets.
However, as gaming legislation to understand what is happening in the regulatory landscape.
These updates are fed into the Group develops differently across many markets, there is a risk risk register which is discussed at the Audit & Risk Committee meetings and the Board discusses the oflegislation being passed in countries preventing their risks and strategy and decides the way forward with management.
During 2013, six individual risk respective citizens from gaming on the internet or meetings and workshops were held with management of the regulatory affairs, lawyers and licensed preventing us from providing services to countries.
Where operations review teams across all key locations and the corresponding risks were put into the legislation ispassed which allows the Group to offer Grouprisk register and discussed at the Audit & Risk Committee meetings.
services, amove by nations towards a licensed regulatory structure in each jurisdiction may result in certain business activities no longer being profitable which would create financial risk for the Group.
party has a dedicated compliance department, which exclusively manages our regulatory obligations.
Our working practices are communicated to our employees by means of policies and bwin.
party holds several licences to operate in different procedures.
The Audit & Risk Committee has also had internal audit set up alicensed operations review jurisdictions.
This is the risk that the Group loses its department.
This department independently reviews all current and new licensed operations.
During operating licence or is sanctioned for failing to comply 2013, four licensed entities had a detailed review to ensure compliance: the corresponding findings withregulatory requirements in licensed Jurisdictions.
were then reported through the Group Risk Committee to the Audit & Risk Committee for discussion and evaluation.
During 2013, four individual risk meetings and workshops were held with management of the compliance team and licensed operations review team across all key locations and the corresponding risks were put into the Group risk register and discussed at Audit & Risk Committeemeetings.
party has a dedicated IT governance department which manages our data protection obligations within our IT systems.
During 2013, this department led an ISO 27001 accreditation bwin.
party holds data on employees, customers and processto ensure and maintain key areas such as data protection are fully compliant.
Furthermore, suppliers which is collected through normal business alldepartments are required to be aware of key data and follow strict working practices which are means.
This is the risk that that data is incorrectly stored, governed by the Group Risk Committee.
Our working practices are communicated to our employees released or used which would create a breach of data bymeans of policies and procedures.
TheAudit & Risk Committee has also had internal audit set up a protection regulations.
This in turn could leadto licensed operations review department.
This department independently reviews all current and new reputational risk for the Group and the corresponding licensed operations which includes data protection requirements.
During 2013, four licensed entities financial risk.
had a detailed review to ensure compliance: the corresponding findings were then reported through the Group Risk Committee to the Audit & Risk Committee for discussion and evaluation.
During 2013, 15 individual risk meetings and workshops were held with management of the IT team across all key locations and the corresponding risks were put into the Group risk register and discussed at the Audit & Risk Committee meetings.
Tax The Board oversees and sets the tax strategy and evaluates the tax risk for the Group.
The Group hasappointed a Director of Taxation who regularly meets with the Board to understand their This is the risk that bwin.
party pays more tax than requirements and then works with the business to implement appropriate working practices which expected.
party operates a multi-jurisdictional model are communicated to our employees by means of policies and procedures.
Financial systems are from which arise taxation obligations.
party has inplace to compute tax payable.
The Audit & Risk Committee requested internal audit to review the customers and staff in many jurisdictions, giving rise to tax taxation of operations in several jurisdictions and this was then discussed in the Audit & Risk obligations in many jurisdictions.
Failure by the Board to Committee meetings.
Furthermore internal audit have included in all audits areview of the manage these risks effectively could lead to reputational application of controls in the tax risk management policy in the operations under audit, such as and financial loss to the Group.
therevenue recognition review which was carried out for the Audit & Risk Committee.
During 2013, two individual risk meetings and workshops were held with management of the tax team at the headofce and the corresponding risks were put into the Group risk register and discussed at the Audit & Risk Committeemeetings.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 79 Whistle-blowing In accordance with its duties, the ARC made recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors, approved their The Group continues to adopt and publicise a formal whistle-blowing remuneration both subject to shareholder approval and also approved procedure by which employees can, in confidence, raise concerns about their terms of engagement.
The Audit & Risk Committee has reviewed possible improprieties in financial or other matters.
This procedure is set the effectiveness of the external audit and theindependence of the out in the Groups employee handbooks and has been reviewed by the external auditors and has recommended totheBoard that it propose Audit & Risk Committee.
The ARC is satisfied that arrangements are in atthe 2014 Annual General Meeting the re-appointment of BDO LLP place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such andBDO Limited.
matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
2013 Annual Report External auditors In 2014 the Audit & Risk Committee has met once to review the During the year ended 31 December 2013, BDO LLP was appointed under bwin.
party consolidated Group and Company financial statements an engagement letter to act as auditors to enable the Company to meet forthe year ended 31 December 2013, together with the report of the its obligations to prepare financial statements in accordance with the external auditors.
When reviewing these financial statements the Listing Rules.
For the purposes of ling the Companys financial Directors have also reviewed the complete 2013 Annual Report and statements in Gibraltar, BDO LLP and BDO Limited have been appointed considered that if taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced to act as joint auditors to allow an audit report to be issued under and understandable and provides the information necessary for section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999. bwin.
partys shareholders to assess the Companys performance, The ARC has also established a policy regarding the appointment business model and strategy.
The Audit & Risk Committee has ofexternal auditors to perform non-audit services for the Group and determined that the 2013 Annual Report does meet these objectives willkeep this under continual review.
This policy dictates that in the andhas advised theBoard accordingly.
Companys financial year, the total fees for non-audit services provided Helmut Kern by the external auditors, excluding non-audit fees for due diligence Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee foracquisitions and other specic matters noted below, should not 13 March 2014 exceed the total fees for audit services they provide.
In the year ended 31December 2013, the proportion of total non-audit fees to total audit fees paid to the external auditors was 0.28:1.0.
In addition to their statutory duties, BDO LLP are also employed where, as a result of their position as auditors or for their specic expertise, they either must, or the ARC accepts they are best placed to, perform the work in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory lings and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
In such circumstances the Audit & Risk Committee will separately review the specic service requirements and consider any impact on objectivity and independence of the auditors and any appropriate safeguards to this.
Assuch the Audit & Risk Committee believes it appropriate for these non-audit services tobeexcluded from the 1:1 ratio set out above.
In the year ended 31December 2013 the total fees paid to the external auditors in respectof due diligence for acquisitions was 50,000.
In 2014 the BDO LLP partner will rotate having acted for five years.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that FTSE 350 companies put their external audit out to tender at least once every ten years.
The current external auditors have served the Company since its IPO in 2005.
Taking into account the Financial Reporting Councils advice on companies transitioning to comply with this recommendation and the timing of the audit partner rotation, the Board has decided on the recommendation from the Audit & Risk Committee to put the external audit out to tender in 2017.
Thereafter the external audit will be put out for tender at least once every ten years.
80 Corporate governance Review of the merger integration process Integration Committee Report This is the last report of the Integration Committee, which disbands on Purpose 31 March 2014 after three years overseeing the merger implementation As many corporate mergers experience significant challenges in process.
The merger has succeeded in generating 136.5m of cost achieving their objectives, the Board wanted to ensure sufficient synergies to date, 30% larger than those originally forecast at the oversight was given to bringing about the delivery of economic timeof the merger.
This reects the success of the design and synergies and effective exploitation of the combined PartyGaming implementation of the merger consolidation plan and the strong andbwin assets.
The purpose of the Integration Committee is to management skills of the Executive Directors and merger overseebwin.
partys merger integration plan and ensure it is implementation teams.
implemented effectively in a timely manner.
Whilst the consolidation of the combined Groups technology has been somewhat challenging, the majority of players have played on one Membership gaming platform since December 2012, an objective aided by us having t Manfred Bodner Chairman of the Committee and ownership of our own software.
Frustratingly, the migration of French  and Italian players onto one technology platform has been delayed a t Simon Duffy Chairman of the Board number of times, mainly due to other more urgent projects such as t Rod Perry Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director software changes for the German market, the poker re-launch and the New Jersey casino market launch that all had to take priority, however, t Norbert Teufelberger CEO these migrations are due to take place in 2014.
With these difficulties The CFO and Groups Strategy Director were invited to attend and came learnings and these have been instrumental in a move in 2013 to participate in Integration Committee meetings.
On 15 January 2013, an Agile approach to technology management, which longer term JimRyan left the Company and this has been the only change to the should improve the quality and speed to market of our games.
As previously reported, the Group successfully sold the Ongame poker Responsibilities business at the end of 2012 and it continues to rationalise its portfolio ofenterprises to enable management to focus on the core businesses The Integration Committee has adopted terms of reference, and the Group is currently looking to sell further non-core brands approvedbythe Board that are available on the Companys website: andbusinesses.
In summary, the main responsibilities of Following the merger, the combined Group has an impressive collection the Integration Committee are to ensure that the Group has effective of brands at its disposal across all product verticals.
These require controls and policies regarding the following: constant focus and maintenance in the ever-changing world of online gaming to ensure they remain attractive and relevant to the demanding t oversight of the preparations and implementation in a timely manner and rapidly changing tastes of gaming customers.
During the year I have of an effective plan across the Group to integrate the businesses of been instrumental in assisting the Executive Directors and the Groups bwin and PartyGaming: Strategy and Commercial Directors with positioning our brands.
During t ensuring that the integration plan complements and supports the this process we have and will continue to sell brands which are no Groups rolling business strategy: longer central to our offering and for which we can realise value.
This t resolving any management disputes over any element of the resulted in 2013 in the sale of Pokerroom.
com for up to US$8m integration process: dependent on the extent to which online gaming open up in the US, t reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding with the sale of another poker domain pending for consideration of anymaterial investment management proposes making in order approximately US$1.7m.
tofacilitate the integration plan: The bringing together of a number of working cultures proved t in consultation with the Companys Audit Committee, overseeing challenging.
After an initial period of familiarisation, however, each that, at all times, the Group has in place the necessary management team of employees has come together and worked productively and structure and stafng resource across all functions to continue to constructively together, with a shared sense of purpose and Group effectively manage the risks attaching to the Groups business culture.
Going forward, the Group continues to look for efficiencies in relating to integration matters: itsoperations, particularly as a result of the adoption of the volume to t making recommendations to the Board regarding the sale of any of value strategy and in 2013 this led to some further redundancies.
Whilst the Groups material assets or businesses regarded by management redundancies are difficult, longer term these changes will make the as redundant following the merger: Group leaner, more efficient and cost effective in delivering on its business objectives.
t making recommendations to the Board regarding any decisions about the gaming platforms to be used by the Group or the software Manfred Bodner rationalisation process, including any decisions relating to the Chairman of the Integration Committee disposal of platforms and software: 13 March 2014 t ensuring that any product branding, cultural or employee morale issues arising from the merger are effectively addressed and resolved by management: and t monitoring communication of the progress of the integration process to employees, shareholders, governments, regulators and any other stakeholders and making recommendations to the Board accordingly.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 81 During the year the Nominations Committee considered the Companys Nominations Committee Report succession plans for Directors and members of the senior management Purpose team, with advice provided by the CEO and the Groups HR Director.
The The Board has adopted a formal and transparent procedure for the Committee is comfortable that the Group has effective plans in place to appointment of new Directors to the Board by appointing a Nominations deal with the replacement of any Director and key members of the Committee to lead the process of appointment and make recommendations senior management team.
The Nominations Committee also advises the Board on its Future changes to the Board structure, size, composition and matters of Director and senior management succession.
In February 2014, Emerald Bay Limited and Stinson Ridge Limited transferred their jointly held Board nomination right, provided for Membership intheRelationship Agreement with bwin.
party see page 107 to t Simon Duffy Chairman of the Nominations Committee SpringOwl Gibraltar Partners B Limited SpringOwl.
SpringOwl has executed a deed of adherence in respect of the Relationship Agreement.
t Per Afrell Independent Director To date SpringOwl has yet to notify the Company of their nominee t Rod Perry Senior Independent Director tojoin the Board as a Non-Executive Director, however, the Board anticipates a nominee notication will be received shortly.
Under the Responsibilities terms of the Relationship Agreement the Board has one month from The Nominations Committee has adopted terms of reference, thenomination date to make the appointment or declare the nominee approvedby the Board, that are available on the Companys website: unsuitable for appointment.
An announcement on this potential http: www.
com AboutUs CorporateGovernance appointment is anticipated to be made in due course.
In summary, the main responsibilities aforementioned appointment becomes effective, the Board will ofthe Nominations Committee are to: consistof four independent and five non-independent Directors excluding the Chairman and will therefore no longer comply with t regularly review the structure, size and composition including the theCode that at least half of the Board of Directors be independent.
skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared Consequently, the Nominations Committee will undertake a search for toits current position and make recommendations to the Board anew independent Director and then make recommendations to the withregard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary: Board for the appointment of a suitable candidate.
t give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior management in the course of its work, taking into account the In December, I announced that I would be stepping down from challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and what skills theBoard at the conclusion of the Companys 2014 Annual General and expertise are needed on the Board in the future: Meeting.
By the time I depart at Mays AGM I will have served as bwin.
partys Chairman for more than three years.
As Non-Executive t be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the Chairman I was tasked with overseeing the integration of bwin and approval of the Board, to ll Board vacancies as and when they PartyGaming following the announcement of their merger in 2010 and arise:and Iam pleased tosay that many of the strategic objectives positioning t make recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment bwin.
party for future growth have now been achieved.
A committee of by shareholders of any Director.
independent Directors has been overseeing the search and selection process, supported by Spencer Stuart.
That committee will make a Business during the year recommendation to the Board regarding my successor in due course During 2013, the Nominations Committee oversaw the process of and then the Board will make a decision on an appointment.
It is selecting a new independent Director and following a recommendation currently anticipated that the identity of the new Chairman will be from the Committee the Board appointed Sylvia Coleman on 8 March announced before the AGM on 22May 2014.
Her solicitor background and experience in the entertainment sector have all ready proven to be valuable to the Board and her Rod Perry is coming up to his ninth anniversary since being first appointment also means the Board has satisfied its previously disclosed re-appointed a Director by shareholders.
The Board, led by the other intention of appointing a female director by the end of 2013.
Spencer independent Directors, vigorously considered whether despite his near Stuart was engaged to assist the Committee with the search and nine year tenure, Rod Perry continues to be independent in character selection processfor this role.
and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances that arelikely to affect, or could appear to affect his judgement.
The Board As disclosed last year, the Directors generally believed a Board with concluded that he still maintains his independence.
In 2013 following the retirement of Jim Ryan and resignation of Joachim Baca and after a series of discussions, In the context of these changes, the Directors remain mindful of the GeoffBaldwin, Tim Bristow and Lewis Moonie agreed to step down as stated intention to appoint at least two women to the Companys Board Directors, reducing the Boards membership to nine Directors, whilst by 2015, although the selection of candidates will be done primarily also ensuring the remaining independent Directors were not in onmerit.
aminority to the non-independent Directors.
For the time being theNominations Committee regards the size of the Board to be appropriate and it maintains the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
82 Corporate governance Use of third-parties in the recruitment process As disclosed above, Spencer Stuart, a third-party recruitment specialist, has been engaged to provide assistance in the search and selection of new Directors.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with bwin.
party and is regarded as wholly independent.
Diversity policy The Company has adopted a diversity policy to ensure the Group engages, trains and promotes employees on the basis of their capabilities, qualications and experience.
The policy forbids discrimination or pressure to discriminate by its employees or others acting on the Groups behalf or their employees, contractors or customers in respect of age, sex, sexual orientation, race, ethnic origin, marital status or civil partnership, nationality, disabilities, political or religious beliefs, or on any other criteria unrelated to an individuals ability to perform the duties.
The policy also sets out how the diversity guidelines impact recruitment, selection and promotion, learning and development, the management of part-time workers and individual employee responsibilities for ensuring enforcement and compliance with the policy.
Owing to the breadth of diversity existing across the Group, diversity ratios or objectives have not been set.
2014 AGM With the exception of myself, all the Directors are standing for reappointment at the 2014 AGM.
The Nominations Committee has recently reviewed each of these re-appointments and on the basis of experience, performance, skills and commitment demonstrated, has recommended to the Board that each of the Directors be re-appointed.
Simon Duffy Chairman of the Nominations Committee 13 March 2014 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 83 2013 Directors Remuneration Report 1.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committees Statement Whilst this outcome is disappointing for participants it demonstrates their interests are aligned with those of bwin.
partys investors and that Dear Shareholder, these plans have been operated by the Remuneration Committee in Introduction exactly the way we presented to shareholders that they would be when shareholder approval was sought for these plans ahead of the merger in On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2013 2011.
The Remuneration Committee believes the remuneration policy of RemunerationReport.
the Group remains appropriate and for 2014 there are no fundamental As required by the new Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups changes to the policy implemented in 2013.
Whilst the Remuneration Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the rest of this Committee recognises the need to incentivise and retain talented Remuneration Report is split into two parts: employees, we cannot reward effort when the results do not have the desired impact on the financial performance of the Group.
t The Directors remuneration policy sets out the Companys proposed policy on Directors remuneration for three years from the 2014 AGM Both the BBP and VCP came to the end of their life at the end of 2013, and the key factors that were taken into account in setting the policy.
solast year we undertook an exercise to design a new incentive plan The Directors remuneration policy part is subject to a binding tosucceed them: the bwin.
party digital entertainment plc Incentive shareholder vote at this years AGM and after that at least every Plan BIP.
After a lengthy consultation process with our largest thirdyear.
shareholders, the BIP was presented to all shareholders for approval t The Annual Report on remuneration sets out payments and awards earlier this year and I am grateful for the strong support we received for made to the Directors and details the link between Company this new plan from our shareholders.
The BIP retains the BBP structure performance and remuneration for the 2013 financial year.
The of a partial annual cash payment, whilst deferring the balance of the Annual Report on remuneration together with this annual statement contribution into shares for release in future years, subject to a is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 22 May 2014. clawback mechanism.
To replace the VCP the BIP adopts a capped annual restricted share award.
A summary of the BIP mechanics is set Headlines out in this report on page 89.
In recognition of the senior management teams achievement in implementing the majority of the key strategic t No participant contribution earned for 2013 under the Bonus and transformational objectives for 2013 set last year, the first awards BankingPlan under Element B of the BIP will be made this month and are detailed on t No participant contribution earned for 2013 under the Value pages 99 and 100 of this report.
CreationPlan This years Directors Remuneration Report differs from previous years t New senior executive incentive plan launched in 2014 to succeed as we have adopted the reporting requirements set out in the UKs BBPand VCP called the bwin.
party 2014 Incentive Plan the BIP Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups t First awards under Element B of the BIP following implementation Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended, following the ofstrategic and transformational objectives in 2013 initiatives of the UK Government to bring greater transparency and t No material change to other elements of the remuneration policy accountability with regards to corporate remuneration practices.
Indoing so we have followed the guidance issued by the GC100 and t Salary freeze for the second year in succession for senior executives Investor Group and trust that we have been successful in presenting aclear picture and justication for our remuneration policy Background andpractices.
The performance of the business was disappointing in 2013 as the Group began implementing a fundamental shift in its strategy from volume to The change in the regulations also requires us this year to put two value and a focus away from dotcom gaming markets towards growing resolutions to shareholders regarding remuneration.
Resolution its revenues from the more sustainable nationally regulated and to-beresolution 2 is the usual non-binding approval of this Directors regulated gaming markets.
Events beyond the control of management Remuneration Report.
Resolution 3 is also an ordinary resolution, but in important markets, such as regulatory uncertainty in Germany toapprove the Groups remuneration policy as set out in Section 2 of andillegal ISP blocking in Greece, also contributed to the softer theDirectors Remuneration Report.
We will present the remuneration performance.
Despite performance being unfairly impacted by external policy for approval every three years unless any material changes are factors, the Remuneration Committee decided, in the circumstances, it required to the policy in which case we present the new policy to was not appropriate to adjust any of the targets for pay-outs under the shareholders for formal approval.
This is a binding vote, so we need Companys incentive plans.
This has resulted in no contribution being shareholders to approve the remuneration policy otherwise we cannot earned by the Executive Directors and senior management for 2013 implement it and will be required to present a revised remuneration under the Bonus Banking Plan BBP and Value Creation Plan VCP.
Given our lengthy BIP shareholder consultation, Inaddition, despite a general upward trend in ination we have decided the degree of shareholder support for the plan and as the remuneration not to increase the salaries of the senior management team for 2014, policy remains unchanged from previous years, it will be disappointing anapproach we also took in 2013, as the business needs first to show if this resolution is not approved.
sustainable signs of getting back togrowth.
We have provided an At a glance summary of 2013 remuneration andperformance immediately after this letter.
The Annual Report on remuneration provides further details and the Directors remuneration policy sets out how we are building for the future.
At a glance In this section, we summarise the purpose of our remuneration policy, its linkage to our corporate strategic objectives and we highlight the performance and remuneration outcomes for 2013.
More detail can be found in the Annual Report on remuneration.
How has the structure changed year-on-year?
Proposed changes to Remuneration Policy Performance metrics used, weighting and time Element Operation of element Maximum potential value period applicable Salary No change.
n a Bonus Banking Plan Introduction of Element A of the new BIP.
Reduction in overall maximum level of See pages 99 and 100 for details of the 2013 annual award from 300% to 250% of salary.
targets and their level of satisfaction.
Element A operates in exactly the same way as the Bonus Banking Plan it replaces.
In summary: t Company contribution will be earned based on the level of Clean EBITDA 75% of the Company versus a pre-determined target and the satisfaction of personal objectives 25%, both of which are to be set annually in advance: t Contributions will be made for three years with payments made over four years: t 50% of the value of a Participants Plan Account will be paid out annually for three years in the form of cash and or shares as determined by the Remuneration Committee with 100% of the value paid out at the end of year four in the form of shares : and t 50% of the unpaid balance of a Participants Plan account will be at risk of annual forfeiture.
Value Creation Plan The Value Creation Plan was replaced by The potential benefit under the VCP Strategic and or transformational KPIs see Element B of the BIP in respect of 2013 and wasuncapped.
pages 99 and 100 for the details of the future years.
conditions for 2013 operation of the Plan.
The maximum annual award that can be Element B operates as follows: granted under Element B is 300% of salary.
t Company contribution will be earned based on the following performance conditions measured annually: strategic KPIs: and or transformational KPIs.
t An annual award of shares granted dependent on the extent to which the strategic and or transformational objectives for the previous year have beenmet.
t Shares vest on the third anniversary ofgrant.
t Shares may only be sold on or after the fthanniversary of grant irrespective of whether or not the participant remains anemployee.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 85 The principles of our remuneration Shareholder aligned 65% of the overall remuneration package capable of being earned is Competitive provided in shares: with 70% of these shares locked in for five years from Market competitive reward packages to recruit and retain in an the date of award.
Fixed elements are below market with a highly entrepreneurial incentive plan to reward outperformance.
What are our strategic priorities?
Shift business model from volume to value Flexibility The need for the remuneration package to be exible enough to 2.
Move focus from dotcom markets to regulated and soon to-bedealwith: regulated markets t implementation of strategic transformational change in business 3.
Transformation of technology organisation and operations model over the next period: 4.
Market channel expansion t rapid and unpredictable changes to the Companys market: and 5.
Re-launch of Poker t changing international regulatory environment.
How have we performed against our corporate performance objectives?
The following table sets out the various performance metrics targeted by the Companys incentive arrangements and how the Company has performed against these metrics in respect of 2013: Threshold Target Incentive KPIs Incentive Plan performance performance Maximum Actual Vesting EBITDA BBP 117.6m 147.0m 176.4m 108.0m 0 Personal Objectives BBP 4 5 10 CEO 5.50 0 CFO 5.75 0 Transformation of Technology Element B of BIP Any material Achieving 100% of Exceed target See the analysis of 65.05 see page 99 for breakdown of achievement of target metric metric by 120% results against targets target metric targets on page 99 Market Channel Expansion 1 see page 99 for breakdown oftargets Market Channel Expansion 1 see page 99 for breakdown oftargets Poker re-launch see page 99 for breakdown oftargets Strategic Move from Volume toValue see page 100 for breakdown oftargets Leverage Technology see page 100 for breakdown of targets Poker re-launch Value Creation Plan N A 201.67 pence Uncapped 121.18 pence 0 C. Single total gure of remuneration for Executive Directors for 2013 2013 2013 Total Total Executive Director Norbert Teufelberger CEO 2,191,585 2,636,705 Martin Weigold CFO 1,615,456 1,943,562 86 2013 Directors Remuneration Report 3.
Remuneration policy The design of the share-based remuneration arrangements takes account of the risks associated with the online gaming business and A.
Introduction seeks to address the following: In accordance with the new regulations, the Directors Remuneration t long-term incentives with standard three year performance periods Policy the Policy as set out below will operate from 1 January 2014 are difficult to use to motivate and retain senior executives due to andbe put to a binding shareholders vote.
It will become formally fast moving nature of the online gaming market: effective at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and will apply for the t comparative total shareholder return targets are inappropriate period of threeyears from the date of approval.
aseven direct industry comparators have a different focus on Policy thevarious gaming verticals, geographical markets and as a result have different riskexposure: The Groups remuneration policy continues to be to provide marketcompetitive total remuneration packages enabling the business to t incentives need to be exible enough to deal with the changing recruit and retain high-calibre entrepreneurs required to drive the regulatory environment in which the Group operates: and futuregrowth and performance of its business.
The online gaming t the remuneration challenge for the Group is to have remuneration sectorremains a highly competitive and dynamic environment and arrangements in place where part of the reward provided to senior inadopting the current remuneration policy, the following key factors executives is linked to shareholder return and is not completely are taken into account: undermined by the risk factors impacting the sector and the Group.
t the nature of the market in which the Group operates and, in Our peer group of companies particular, the fact that the regulation and legality of online gaming The peer group for benchmarking currently consists of the following varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, is subject to uncertainties and companies: may be impacted by adverse changes to regulation of online gaming or the interpretation of regulation by regulators: t MGM Resorts t the need for incentive arrangements to incorporate suitable risk t Electronic Arts adjustment provisions to ensure executives do not receive t Netix unjustiedwindfalls: t International Game Technology t the need to attract and retain key talent and drive high performance: t Expedia t the impact on the Groups margins due to additional cost of t IAC InterActivecorp compliance and taxation: t NCR t the requirement to attract and retain Executive Directors and certain senior executives who have to relocate and discharge all of their t Lottomatica responsibilities from Gibraltar, versus other larger international t William Hill business locations where there are greater career opportunities: t Ladbrokes t the opening of the US online gambling market under a federal or state t HSN licensing regime, together with the timing of such a development, t Bally Technologies may have a substantial impact on the Groups financial and share price performance.
The remuneration policy has to be exible and t Caesars Entertainment durable enough to accommodate these changes without becoming t Zynga compromised: and t Aristocrat Leisure t the need to reconcile UK corporate governance guidance with market t Betfair Group remuneration practices in all jurisdictions where the Group has employees, including the US.
t Take Two Interactive Software As a result of the above considerations, the Group has adopted a highly t WMS Industries leveraged incentive policy to ensure that the prole of the remuneration t Betsson on offer is supportive of the Groups business strategy and the effect of t scientific Games Corporation legislative changes.
Particular focus is placed on providing a sharet Shufe Master based remuneration package appealing to entrepreneurial and innovative executives.
In conjunction with this approach, the policy t Unibet adopts comparatively modest elements for the xed elements of the t Boyd Gaming total remuneration package, with salaries targeted at median quartile This group is used for all reward benchmarking purposes.
The levels, minimal benets and a minimum matching pension provision Committee has within the policy the discretion to amend this group.
Thegroup usedwill be set out in the section of the report dealing with the implementation of the policy for the future year on page 103. bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 87 Discretion Plan Grant The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this bwin.
party Bonus Banking Plan Deferred balances held by participants.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative bwin.
party digital entertainment Outstanding options.
discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set plc Rollover Option Plan out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to bwin.
party Share Option Plan Outstanding options.
amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or BIP Element B awards granted in await shareholder approval.
It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its Such commitments remain subject to the share plan rules and terms policies prior to the date of the 2014 AGM will be honoured, even if and conditions under which they were granted.
satisfaction of such commitments is made post the AGM and may be inconsistent with the remuneration policies.
Such commitments include Differences in policy from the wider employee population but are not limited to the following: The Group aims to provide a remuneration package for all employees that is market competitive and operates the same core structure as for the Executive Directors.
The Group operates all employee share and bonus plans throughout the organisation, with pension provisions the same for all Executives and employees.
In addition, salary increases for Executive Directors are limited to those that apply to all employees of the Company.
B. Remuneration components for Executive Directors Fixed remuneration Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Maximum Salary Policy: Median Provides a base level of remuneration to Payable monthly.
When determining the support recruitment and retention of basesalary of the Executive Directors the Current salary levels: directors with the necessary experience and Committee takes into consideration: CEO 500,000 expertise to deliver the groups strategy.
t the levels of base salary for similar CFO 446,000 Key element of core xed remuneration.
positions with comparable status, Maximum: responsibility and skills in organisations In general, rises will be linked to those of broadly similar size and complexity.
The providedto employees and or ination up companies in the comparator group are toamaximum increase of 5% per annum.
The Committee intends to review the list of companies each year The Company will set out in the section and may add or remove companies from headed statement of implementation of the group as it considers appropriate.
Any remuneration policy in the following changes made in future to the comparator financial year the salaries for that year for group will be disclosed to shareholders in each of the Executive Directors see page 103. setting out the operation of the policy for the subsequent year.
t the performance of the individual Executive Director: t the individual Executive Directors experience and responsibilities: and t pay and conditions throughout the Company.
The Committee has access to pay and conditions of other employees within the Group when determining remuneration for the Executive Directors and also considers the relationship between general changes to pay and conditions within the Group as a whole.
The general increase in salaries across the Group is in line with ination in the country in which an employee is working.
In the normal course of events, increases inthe Executive Directors salaries will notexceed the average increase for employeesglobally.
88 2013 Directors Remuneration Report Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Maximum Individuals who are recruited or promoted tothe Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become established in their role.
Insuch cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the average until the target positioning is achieved.
Benets Provides a minimum level of benets to Provided in the form of private medical Policy: Below Lower Quartile support a low xed cost and highly insurance, permanent health insurance The value of these ongoing benets shall not entrepreneurial remuneration policy.
In accordance with exceed 10% of the annual salary.
theremuneration policy the level of xed costs ncurred as part of the executive remuneration package has been set at theminimum level.
The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the benets described.
Pension Provides a minimum level of pension The Group has adopted a exible benets Policy: Below Lower Quartile contribution to support a low xed cost and programme and this provides the option for Maximum contribution up to 1% of salary.
employees to contribute to a Company provided pension, with a modest contribution by the employing entity of 1% ofsalary if the employee contributes at least 3% of their salary.
There are no other pension arrangements or allowances for the ExecutiveDirectors.
Variable performance based remuneration earned paid in shares which then have to be retained for significant periods will achieve the following outcomes: bwin.
party 2014 Incentive Plan the BIP The BIP is currently the sole incentive arrangement used as part of the t the ultimate value of the incentives earned will reect the long-term normal remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
sustainable performance of the Company: and t the value to the recipient of any incentive earned following the Summary achievement of financial, strategic and transformational KPIs, will be The BIP provides a significant incentive to the Executive Directors and dependent upon the markets judgement that long-term sustainable senior management because it is linked to achievement in delivering shareholder value has been created since the majority of the incentive goals that are closely aligned with the Companys strategy and the compensation will be made in the form of shares that cannot be sold creation of value for shareholders.
In particular, the BIP supports the due to a the restrictions under Element B of the BIP on a rolling five Companys objectives by: year basis: and b the minimum shareholding requirement.
t allowing the setting of annual targets based on the businesses In addition, the BIP is appropriate because its mechanisms are strategic objectives at that time, meaning that a wider range of sufciently exible to address the following key issues: performance metrics can be used that are relevant and suitably t The Company is implementing a strategic and transformational shift stretching whilst also providing sufficient incentive linked to potential in its business model that can be expected to affect many of the key to be achievable: metrics by which performance is traditionally measured over a t providing the Remuneration Committee with the ability to deal with number of years.
As a result, the application of conventional metrics the challenges facing the Company including: used by more traditional incentive plans would likely fail to reward the exibility to support the strategic and transformational change of successful execution of this strategy, one that has been widely the Company over the next period: supported by investors.
This is likely to be most acute during the early years of its implementation when arguably the risks of losing senior timing and impact of US market opening on the appropriate staff to US competitors seeking to attract online gaming executives, financial and strategic targets set: and can be expected to be at its greatest.
the ongoing impact of regulation on financial targets.
t The Companys strategy is to operate in regulated and to-be-regulated t linking BIP plan years together and providing substantial deferral in markets and where possible to obtain national gaming licences in the shares and ongoing risk adjustment by requiring a threshold level of jurisdictions in which the Group offers its products and services.
performance to be achieved during the deferral period.
Amounts However, a lack of visibility regarding the shift towards a newly deferred in shares are also forfeitable on a Directors voluntary regulated landscape in many countries and markets means that both cessation of employment which provides an effective lock-in.
short-term as well as a long-term revenues and profitability can be difficult to predict for example retrospective taxation as happened Background in Spain and the requirement to stop operating all or some products The Remuneration Committee believes that the annual assessment of in a country in order to be eligible for a licence, can impact both arange of predominately financial measures and strategic and revenues and profit.
transformational objectives with a substantial proportion of incentives bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 89 t Given such evolving and, in some cases, highly volatile market conditions, it is difficult to establish multi-year targets that are both testing andrealistic without also being able to amend such targets in response to significant changes to market dynamics that can also have major consequences for the Groups ability to generate attractive financial returns a process that creates a higher degree of uncertainty for participants, shareholders and the Company.
t The opening of the US online gaming market is expected to have a significant impact on the Groups shortand long-term financial performance.
The exact shape and size of this impact, however, remains unknown and the Remuneration Committee wants to ensure that long-term value for the Group is not compromised by an overly rigid incentive structure that is unable to cope with such a shift in business environment.
Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Maximum Performance Metrics Element A See above.
Operation of Element A: Policy: Upper Quartile The primary performance condition is Clean EBITDA with a secondary condition based on personal Element A operates in the t The Company contribution will Maximum 250% of salary.
same way as the previous be earned based on the level of At Threshold 50% of the Bonus Banking Plan which Clean EBITDA of the Company The Company operates in a rapidly changing sector maximum is payable.
itreplaces, with the only versus a pre-determined target and therefore the Committee may change the At On-target 70% of the difference being the reduction and the satisfaction of personal balance of the measures, or use different measures maximum is payable.
in the maximum from 300% of objectives, both of which are to for subsequent financial years, as appropriate, to salary to 250% of salary.
be set annually in advance: There are forfeiture reect this: although currently there is no intention provisions if minimum to do so.
t Contributions will be made for thresholds are not three years with payments The Company will set out in the section headed achieved.
made over four years: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year, the nature t 50% of the value of a ofthe targets and their weighting for each year participants plan account will seepage 103. be paid out annually for three years in the form of cash and or Details of the performance conditions, targets and shares as determined by the their level of satisfaction for the year being reported Remuneration Committee with on will be set out in the Annual Remuneration 100% of the value paid out at the Committee Report.
end of year four in the form of The Committee retains discretion in exceptional shares : and circumstances to change the performance measures t 50% of the unpaid balance of a and targets and their respective weightings part way participants plan account will through a performance year ifthere is a significant be at risk of annual forfeiture.
and material event which causes the Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer appropriate.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Committee believes that the bonus outcome is not a fair and accurate reection of business performance.
Operation of Element B: Policy: Upper Quartile The performance conditions will be based on strategic and or transformational KPIs.
The strategic t Contribution will be earned Maximum 300% of salary.
and transformational objectives are set by the based on the following At Threshold 50% of the Remuneration Committee after the Board has performance conditions maximum is payable.
reviewed the Groups business strategy either at the measured annually: At On-target 70% of the end of the preceding year or at the beginning of the strategic KPIs: and or maximum is payable.
year to which the objectives relate transformational KPIs.
The Company operates in a rapidly changing sector t An annual award of shares andtherefore the Committee may change the granted dependent on the balanceof the measures, or use different measures, extent to which the strategic forsubsequent financial years, as appropriate, to and or transformational reectthis.
objectives for the previous The Company will set out in the section headed yearhave been met.
Statement of implementation of remuneration t Shares vest on the third policy inthe following financial year the nature anniversary of grant.
ofthe targets and their weighting for each year seepage 103. t Shares may only be sold on or after the fifth anniversary of Details of the performance conditions, targets and grant irrespective of whether their level of satisfaction for the year being reported ornot the participant remains on will be set out in the Annual Remuneration an employee.
The Committee has the same discretions set out above for Element A.
The Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that given the commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial, operational and strategic targets used for the BIP, disclosing precise targets for the BIP in advance would not be in shareholder interests.
This avoids the risk of the Company inadvertently providing a profit forecast because profit targets are linked to budgets and giving international competitors an unfair advantage because they are not required to report to the same disclosure standard as a UK listed company.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance periods so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any pay-outs under the BIP.
90 2013 Directors Remuneration Report Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Maximum Performance Metrics Shareholding Ensures a long-term locked-in The shareholding requirement Policy: Upper Quartile N A Requirement alignment between the operates as follows: Minimum shareholding requirement is 500% of Executive Directors and t only shares held unconditionally salary.
However, the Committee has discretion shareholders.
by participants and vested to increase this minimum.
shares under Element B of the BIP will count against the shareholding requirement: and t the Remuneration Committee will have discretion to allow the sale of shares by an Executive in circumstances where it determines there is a good reason for example personal circumstances requiring a sale of shares to meet a legal liability.
party None To encourage wide employee Participants are able to purchase a 3,000 of matching shares subject to any Global Share share ownership and thereby maximum of 1,500 worth of bwin.
changes in the HMRC limits for the UK Share Plan Incentive Plan.
align employees interests party shares annually.
retaining these purchased shares 3,000 of free shares subject to any for three years and continued changesinthe HMRC limits for the UK employment, the Company can ShareIncentive Plan.
provide a matching share for each employee share purchased.
Executive Directors can also be granted an award up to 3,000 in value per annum if funded by newly allotted shares.
These discretionary free share awards generally do not have any performance conditions and vest over a three year period.
Generally new shares are used to satisfy free share awards, whilst shares are purchased in the market in respect of the purchased share and matching share programme.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 91 C. Fees for Non-Executive Directors Element Purpose and Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Maximum Fees Provides a level of fees to The Board determines the remuneration payable Policy: Median to Upper Quartile support recruitment and to the Non-Executive Directors on Current Fee Levels are: retention of Non-Executive recommendation by the Executive Directors.
Remuneration Directors with the necessary The column to the right sets out the annual fees Role annual fee only experience to advise and assist payable to each non-executive position.
Where the with establishing and Chairman 350,000 Chairman and Deputy Chairman chair any monitoring the Groups committees their standard fees are inclusive of Deputy Chairman 220,000 strategic objectives.
Independent Non-Executive Director 130,000 When determining the fee recommendations the Executive Directors take account of the following Senior Independent Director 30,000 in determining the appropriate levels: Chairing the Audit & Risk Committee or 20,000 t the upper quartile to median fee position in Remuneration Committee thecomparator group used to benchmark the Non-Independent 100,000 Companys executive remuneration: t the laws concerning online gaming are still Maximum: evolving and there are instances of ambiguity In general, rises will be linked to those provided to employees and conict between different laws resulting and or ination up to a maximum increase of 5% per annum.
inuncertainty and greater personal risk for The Company will set out in the section headed statement of members of the Board: implementation of remuneration policy in the following t increased regulation, particularly in the US financial year the fees for that year for each of the Nonwhich focuses on the licensing of individual Executive Directors see page 103.
Board members has increased the workload ofNEDs: and t all Board and Committee meetings are required to be held in Gibraltar requiring additional time and inconvenience spent travelling to and from that location.
92 2013 Directors Remuneration Report D. Approach to recruitment remuneration bwin.
partys principle is the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles for the Executive Directors, as set out in the remuneration policy table above.
The Remuneration Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role from the international market in which the Company competes.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The table below summarises bwin.
partys key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration for Executive Directors: Component Policy Base salary and benets The salary level will be set taking into account a number of factors including market practice, the individuals experience and responsibilities and other pay structures within bwin.
party and will be consistent with the salary policy for Executive Directors.
The Executive Director shall be eligible to receive benets in line with bwin.
partys benets policy as set out in the remuneration policytable.
Pension It should be noted that it is not the Remuneration Committees current policy for existing Executive Directors to provide executive level pension contributions or salary supplements.
However, the Committee retains the discretion if required on recruitment to be able to offer either a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash allowance in lieu of pension benets provided that this shall not exceed in 25% of salary per annum.
Incentives The Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the BIP as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration policy table at the Remuneration Committeesdiscretion.
Maximum level The maximum level of variable remuneration under the Companys policy is 550% of salary per annum.
In exceptional circumstances solely of variable remuneration for the year of recruitment this may be increased to 800% if a sign-on award is made.
Sign-on payments The Committees policy is not to provide sign-on compensation.
recruitment awards However, in exceptional circumstances where the Committee decides to provide this type of compensation it will endeavour to provide the compensation in equity, subject to a holding period during which cessation of employment will generally result in forfeiture and subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
In addition, where practical, the Committee will endeavour to consult with its key shareholders prior to entering in to any commitment.
The maximum value of this one-off compensation will be proportionate to the overall remuneration offered by the Company and in all circumstances is limited to 250% of salary which will only be provided in exceptional circumstances.
Share buy-outs replacement The Committees policy is not to provide buy-outs as a matter of course.
awards However, should the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justied the provision of a buyout, the valueof any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account thefollowing: t the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of employment: t the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and t any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value lapsed value : The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, abespoke arrangement would be used.
Relocation policies In instances where the new Executive Director is relocated from one location to another, the Company will provide one-off ongoing as part of the Executive Directors relocation benets compensation to reect the cost of relocation for the Executive in cases where they areexpected to relocate from their country of domicile.
The level of relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences housing allowance schooling.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Annual Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
The annual fees payable to newly recruited Non-Executive Directors will be in line with the fees payable to existing Non-Executive Directors.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 93 E. Service contract and letter of appointment key terms and policy on payment for loss of ofce Executive Directors Notice periods Date of Nature of Compensation provisions Name service contract contract From bwin.
party From Director for early termination Norbert Teufelberger 24.12.10 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Martin Weigold 04.04.05 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Non-executive Directors Notice periods Date of letter Nature of Compensation provisions Name of appointment contract From bwin.
party From Director for early termination Per Afrell 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Manfred Bodner 24.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Sylvia Coleman 08.03.13 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Simon Duffy 21.10.10 Rolling 6 months 6 months None Helmut Kern 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Rod Perry 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Georg Riedl 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Took effect from 31 March 2011 when the merger completed.
The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a maximum 12 month period will apply for Executive Directors.
The Committee may, in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period which would in any event reduce to 12 months following the first year ofemployment.
The service agreements are governed by English law and contain non-compete provisions which apply during employment and for 12 months following termination.
The letters of appointment are also governed by English law and contain non-compete provisions which apply during the appointment and for six months following termination 12 months in the case of the Chairman of the Board.
The Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual reappointment by shareholders.
F. Policy on payment for loss of ofce The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contractis to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors ofce or employment.
94 2013 Directors Remuneration Report When determining any loss of ofce payment for a departing individual the Remuneration Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst seeking to address the circumstances at the time.
Application of Remuneration Component Approach Committee discretion Base salary, benets In the event of termination by the Company, there will be no compensation for loss of ofce due None and pension to misconduct or normal resignation.
In other circumstances, Executive Directors may be entitled to receive payment in lieu of notice.
Payment in lieu of notice will be equivalent to the salary payments, benefit value and pension contributions that they would have received if still employed by the Company for a maximum of 12months.
BIP The Remuneration Committee has The Company only operates one incentive plan for the Executive Directors, the BIP.
The treatment of awards on cessation of employment is governed by the rules of the BIP, as approved by discretion to determine that the reason for termination is classied in the same shareholders on 24th February 2014. manner as those described in the The rules of the BIP provide that on termination of employment before the performance adjacent column.
measurement date or prior to the relevant vesting date, no award will be granted in respect of theyear of cessation and any subsisting entitlements will lapse: unless the following The Remuneration Committee will only circumstances apply: use its general discretion to determine that an Executive Director is a good t injury or disability: leaver in exceptional circumstances t redundancy: and will provide a full explanation to t retirement by agreement with the Company: shareholders, if possible in advance, of the basis for its determination.
t the participant being employed by a company which ceases to be a member of the Group: t the participant being employed in an undertaking or part of an undertaking which is transferred to a person who is not a member of the Group: or t any other circumstances if the Remuneration Committee decides in any particular case.
If an Executive Director leaves in one of the above circumstances the BIP rules provide for the following: Element A The Remuneration Committee will calculate the amount of any payment pro-rated to the amount of the plan year completed on the Executive Directors date of cessation and taking into account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the next performance measurement date.
Any payment shall be made as soon as practicable after the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets.
Any deferred balance from previous years will be paid.
Element B In respect of the year of cessation the Remuneration Committee will calculate any award prorated to the amount of the plan year completed on the Executive Directors date of cessation and taking into account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the next performance measurement date.
Any award will be made as soon as practicable after the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets and shall be subject to the sale restrictions.
Shares subject to subsisting awards at the date of cessation of employment shall vest on the date of cessation or the next measurement date as determined by the Remuneration Committee prorated to the amount of the relevant vesting period completed on such date provided that the shares shall remain subject to the relevant sale restrictions.
It should be noted the performance conditions for the deferred elements under Element A and the subsisting awards under Element B will have been satisfied at the date of grant.
Other contractual There are no other contractual provisions agreed prior to 27 June 2012, with the exception N A obligations ofthechange of control provision in the service agreements of the Executive Directors seefollowing table.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 95 G. Policy on a change of control Application of Remuneration Component Approach Committee discretion Service Agreement If a change of control of the Company as dened in each service agreement takes place, each of None provisionsagreed prior theExecutive Directors may, in the 12 months following the change of control, terminate his to 27 June 2012 employment if the Company makes a material adverse change to his title, responsibilities or status or changes his principal place of work to a place other than Gibraltar by giving three months notice to the Company in writing.
The Company will then be required to pay the relevant Executive Director a payment equal to the amount he would have received had his employment been terminated in accordance with the payment in lieu provisions in his service agreement.
This is not a term which would be offered in contracts to new Executive Directors.
BIP The Remuneration Committee Element A hasadiscretion whether to pro-rate The Remuneration Committee will calculate the amount of any payment pro-rated to the any element to time.
It is the proportion of the plan year completed on the change of control and taking into account the level Remuneration Committees policy of satisfaction of the performance targets at the date of the change of control.
Any payment shall innormal circumstances to pro-rate to be made as soon as practicable after the determination of the level of satisfaction of the time: however, in exceptional performance targets.
circumstances where the nature ofthe Any deferred balance from previous years will be paid.
transaction produces exceptional value for shareholders and provided Element B the performance targets are met the In respect of the year of the change of control the Remuneration Committee will calculate any Remuneration Committee will consider award pro-rated to the proportion of the plan year completed on the change of control and whether pro-rating is equitable.
takinginto account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the date of the change of control.
Anyaward shall be made as soon as practicable after the determination of the level of The Remuneration Committee has the satisfaction of the performance targets and shall not be subject to the sale restrictions.
same discretion in relation to Element B as set out above for Element A and Shares subject to subsisting awards shall vest on the date of the change of control and the sale will operate it in the same manner.
It should be noted that the performance targets for subsisting awards were satisfied at the date of grant.
H. Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy The charts below show for each Executive Director the minimum remuneration receivable, the remuneration receivable if the individual performs in line with the Companys expectation and the maximum remuneration receivable in accordance with the Company remuneration policy.
In line with Expectations target Fixed 70% of Maximum Maximum Fixed 100% of Maximum Notes 1.
Annual variable includes 50% of the Company contribution earned under Element A and 100% Element B of the BIP in any year.
Multiple reporting periods includes the balance of any Company contribution earned under Element A of the BIP in any year.
In practice, over the past three years the Remuneration Committee has made awards under the BBP either on target or below and no entitlement was earned by participants under the VCP.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Group adopts a consistent approach to the remuneration of all employees which is aligned to and supports the implementation of the business strategy.
Core to the Remuneration Policy is the aim of recruiting and retaining talented individuals that can drive business growth and performance and thrive on working in a highly competitive and dynamic sector.
Accordingly the Group adopts the following practices: t Across the Group base salary is targeted at median level with a competitive range of 80% to 130% of median to enable the recruitment or promotion of people developing in a role and those exceptional individuals who continually outperform in a particular role.
t All employees, with a few exceptions that are still in a period of transition are eligible for a bonus either through the main cash bonus scheme foremployees below mid-management or the Bonus & Shares Plan for mid to senior managers.
Bonus pay-outs in all cases are linked to Group financial performance and individual performance against personal objectives.
t All employees except participants in the BIP are eligible for exceptional performance and commitment share awards under the Global Share Plan, assisting in aligning the interests of Group employees with those of its owners.
t A exible benets programme has been rolled-out across the Group allowing all employees to tailor the benets they receive to their specic requirements.
t A performance recognition programme has been launched across the Group enabling employees to nominate their colleagues for rewards recognising exceptional support and assistance in the workplace.
These rewards take the form of non-cash benets e. g. store discount vouchers.
t Total reward statements are available to all employees allowing everyone to see the current value of their remuneration package in a single snap-shot.
t A global job grading structure has been put in place across the whole Group.
t Clear communication of the Groups business strategy to all employees through regular town hall meetings, hot seat webinars, CEO TV and theintranet.
The Group does not use any remuneration comparison metrics.
Whilst the Company has not conducted a formal consultation process with employees in designing the Remuneration Policy, the Human Resources function does receive feedback and suggestions from employees and these have led to changes to the way in which elements of the Remuneration Policy have been implemented, for example the adoption of exible over xed benets and universal eligibility for the Global Share Plan giving all employees exposure to the Companys shares.
In turn the Groups Human Resources Director reports to the Remuneration Committee on the effectiveness of the Remuneration Policy in recruiting, retaining and incentivising employees and the Remuneration Committee considers changes if required to support the business needs of the Group.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views As disclosed earlier in this report, the Remuneration Committee consulted with the Companys major shareholders when designing the BIP.
This process used a consultation document and face-to face meetings with the Remuneration Committee Chairman and or the Companys remuneration consultants followed up by email correspondence.
In explaining the background and design of the BIP, the central elements of the Companys Remuneration P olicy were explained, which have remained unchanged since the merger in 2011.
As a result of the feedback received from shareholders the design of the BIP was simplied and the potential maximum pay-outs reduced.
Having been informed of the changes to the BIPs design, a majority of those shareholders consulted expressed their support for the BIP and on 24 February 2014 the BIP was formally approved by the shareholders, with 70% of the shares voted cast in favour of the plan please see page 105. bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 97 2013 Remuneration Report For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Groups policy on remuneration was implemented as set out below.
The amounts relate to the value of the proposed Element B BIP awards to be granted in March 2014 see page 100.
Despite the fact that this is a share award vesting on the third anniversary of grant and the shares only being eligible for sale on the fifth anniversary of grant, the remuneration reporting regulations require the value of this award to be categorised as a bonus.
The basis for this categorisation is that there are no further performance conditions to be satisfied after 2013, the year to which these awards relate.
These awards have been valued using the average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2013 in accordance with the remuneration reporting regulations.
As reported elsewhere in this report, there was no cash bonus payment for 2013 in respect of the BBP.
The bonus shown is 50% of the contribution to the BBP earned in respect of 2012.
The amounts shown are the values of the shares to be awarded in March 2014 in respect of the deferred value from BBP contributions in 2011 and 2012 see page 98, no contribution having been earned in 2013.
These awards have been valued using the average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2013 122.77 pence in accordance with the remuneration reportingregulations.
The values are the balance of the deferred payments made under the BBP in respect of 2012s operation of the BBP and reect the payment of part of the deferred value under the BBP in 2012.
T hese Directors left the Board during 2013 and only Joachim Baca remains an employee of the Group.
Information on Jim Ryans departure terms was set out in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2012.
As disclosed in last years report, under the rules of the BBP Jim Ryan was not entitled to participate in the BBP for 2013.
However, he was entitled under the terms of his service agreement, as amended at the time of the merger, to mirror the terms of the newly appointed Co-CEOs and COOs service agreement, to an on target cash bonus payment of 750,000 in respect of the 2013, payable as part of his payment in lieu of notice.
In 2013 the Remuneration Committee agreed, at no cost to the Company, the removal of the on target cash bonus payment clause from the service agreements of all remaining executives.
This type of clause will not be included in any future service agreements.
Additional requirements in respect of the Single Total Figure Table audited information Benets The benets provided are: t private medical insurance: t permanent health insurance: and t life assurance.
Operation of Bonus Banking Plan for 2013 Performance against targets BBP 2013 outcomes The following table sets out the Clean EBITDA targets for 2013 and their level of satisfaction: Clean EBITDA Threshold Clean EBITDA on Target Clean EBITDA Maximum EBITDA 117.6m 147.0m 176.4m % of EBITDA credited to the Bonus Pool 2.6% 4.1% 6.9% 2013 Outcomes Clean EBITDA % of Clean EBITDA Value of Contribution credited to the Bonus Pool to the Bonus Pool 108.0m 0% 0m In addition, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the performance of the Executive Directors and senior executives against their personal objectives set for 2013.
The objectives for the CFO and senior executives were set by the CEO, whilst the objectives for the CEO were set by the Chairman.
All these personal objectives were reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of 2013 before being rolledout.
98 2013 Directors Remuneration Report The following table sets out the personal objectives for each of the Executive Directors and whether they were satisfied: Name Personal Objective Level of Satisfaction Norbert Teufelberger Building and managing the senior team to deliver the business strategy Achieved an overall score of 5.50 out ofapossible maximum of 10 Build a robust succession plan for the senior team Achieved an overall score of 5.75 out Martin Weigold Drive a performance oriented culture by continuing to take ownership of the Group and business units P&Ls and budgets and provide continued leadership on a monthly basis in ofamaximum of 10 ensuring all leaders are tracking to budget and suggesting corrective action improvements when necessary Provide first class level of decision support for strategic decisions of the Group, including butnot limited to Premium.
com, assets sales, mergers and acquisitions, US re-entry, social gaming, mobile, payments, B2B, European regulated market expansion and assumption of ownership of the business intelligence and analysis department Deliver against the tactical plans in line with agreed deadlines andKPIs Ensure that synergies promised to the market are captured Continue to oversee execution of US re-entry strategy with a view to potentially spinning offthe US-facing assets within three months of material enabling legislation being passed Ensure the balance sheet is efficient whist not exposing the Group to any unnecessary financial risk Conduct re-budgeting exercise as required throughout 2013 to reect any required changes consistent with agreement with the Board.
Ensure the production of a quality budget for 2014so that can be submitted and approved in the December Board meeting Assessed Personal Contribution to the Group including the following contribution to theGroup: t Teamwork t Leadership and acting as a role model to employees t Demonstrating a commercial approach in all aspects of your role contributing to revenue and EBITDA generation and growth t Strong work ethic and work rate, delivering the CFOs tactical plans and also assisting the implementation of the tactical plans of other senior managers t Flexible approach to work and prepared to take on additional responsibilities as required t Fully complies with all company policies and procedures and ensuring all internal audit requirements are completed within agreed time lines t Create a more entrepreneurial and high energy culture that is revenue and profit growthfocused t Ensuring the Finance function has an appropriate succession plan The following table summarises the Plan Accounts for the participating Directors under the BBP: Plan Accounts Norbert Teufelberger Martin Weigold Manfred Bodner 2013 Opening Balance shares 560,254 405,828 441,543 2013 Contribution 0 0 0 % of salary fee 0% 0% 0% Value of shares at Measurement Date 678,916 491,782 535,062 Total Value at Measurement Date 678,916 491,782 535,062 2013 Element to vest in March 2014 339,458 245,891 267,531 Bonus Element 50% of 2013 Contribution 0 0 0 LTIP Element Total Element Vested less the Bonus Element 339,458 245,891 267,531 Closing Balance 339,458 245,891 267,531 Number of shares represented by Closing Balance 280,127 202,914 220,771 For the value of the shares at the Measurement Date, the number of deferred shares carried forward from 2012 Opening Balance for 2013 has been multiplied by the average bwin.
party share price for the 30-day measurement period to 31 December 2013 which was 121.18 pence.
For the number of shares represented by the Closing Balance, the value of the Closing Balance has been divided by the same share price of 121.18 pence.
The Closing Balance shares are due to vest on 1 January 2015. bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 99 B.
Plan interested awarded in respect of the financial year BIP Information on the design of the BIP and the justication for the design are set out above in the Remuneration Policy section of this report see pages 88 and 89.
The Remuneration Committee set the following strategic and transformational objectives for 2013 for the purpose of determining the level of awards to be made under Element B of the BIP in respect of 2013 performance.
Strategic Transformational Projects Measurement Metrics for 2013 Actual Result Implement Fundamental Transformation of t Design new organisational structure to meet the t A blueprint structure was designed and approved Technology Organisation and Operations: needs of the transformational strategy and align all in2013 in line with the Groups budget process.
employees to the new model including managing Reduced technology employee costs by 11.1m, Adopt a new agile methodology to increase work exits and necessary new hiring.
throughput and utilising a leaner technology workforce that develops software more cheaply and t Up-skill technology employees on agile t Comprehensive brieng and training programme brings it to market faster.
rolled out across the Group in 2013, using thirdparty experts to facilitate the process.
t Complete education programme across Group on new technology approach.
t 95% of the Groups technology employees attended Measurement weighting:15% agile training in 2013. t Provide a clear plan for achieving zero gaming platform down-time with total cost, date for t A plan for decoupling Poker and Casino to enable achievement and decoupling of poker, casino and independent product releases, reducing platform platform so each is independently deployable.
down-time risk, has been signed-off.
The Development Operations team has implemented t New management information system rolled out.
aplan to improve platform stability and reduce t Standardise IT tools across organisation.
The Group exceeded the on target system down-time reduction in 2013. t A new monthly Technology and Product Operationsreporting process was successfully introduced in 2013. t Successful implementation of a programme for identifying duplicate tools used for the same IT service and then reducing to a single IT tool for eachservice.
Market Channel Expansion 1: t Complete roll-out of all products and brands on IOS t All products and brands rolled-out in the Main and Android in principal regulated trading markets Markets by the end of 2013.
All products and brands available on mobile devices by the end of 2013. tablets and smart phones via IOS and Android in t From revenues generated on the Groups principal markets Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, t Target of achieving 13.7% of total net gaming proprietary software 13.6% of net gaming revenue France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Russia, Spain, revenue after tax from mobile touch devices by was generated from IOS and Android in 2013, with a Switzerland and UK Main Markets.
theend of 2013. rate of 16.1% achieved in quarter 4 2013.
Measurement weighting: 15% Market Channel Expansion 2: t Launch in the UK as first test market.
t Achieved Zynga Plus Poker and Zynga Plus Casino on canvas launch in September 2013.
Launch social on canvas poker, casino and sports betting products.
t bwin Sports on canvas concept, specications and prototype nalised in 2013, but not due to be Measurement weighting: 15% launched until March April 2014.
Poker Re-launch: t Launch software and follow with marketing t New poker product launched in September 2013. campaign in principal regulated trading markets.
Launch new poker offering and reposition poker to t Aimed to increase net gaming revenue in quarter 4 benumber 1 rival to PokerStars.
t Stop the revenue decline in poker measuring 2013 over quarter 3 2013 by 8%.
Achieved an actual quarter after launch with quarter prior to launch.
Also aimed to improve the trend Measurement weighting: 15% curve by reducing the average decline of fideseasonalised business from 38% for the first eight months of 2013 to an average of 30% in quarter 4 2013 versus the prior year.
Achieved a reduction to an average of 31.8% Further information on this matter is commercially sensitive and could be used by the Groups competitors to the detriment of the Companys shareholders.
100 2013 Directors Remuneration Report Strategic Transformational Projects Measurement Metrics for 2013 Actual Result Strategic Move from Volume to Value: t Implement volume to value concept through t The volume to value concept has been embedded product and marketing changes.
into the organisation and drives product and Adopt a revised business approach focusing on marketing initiatives and decisions.
servicing those customers that provide the most t Complete restructure of the Group to support the valueand protecting these revenues rather than new strategic approach via changes to t Structural changes have been implemented in aiming to increase the volume of customers management, employees and responsibilities.
Redundant roles irrespective of theirvalue.
were identied and the redundancy programme t Capture 70m of cost savings.
Measurement weighting: 25% t Despite the additional demands on the business in t 79.04m of cost savings made in 2013.
2013, cap employee costs for 2013 at 1 January 2013 run-rate and agree plan to reduce headcount cost t 1 January 2013 run-rate was 120.7m and by 32.5m in 2014. achievedasustainable run-rate of 117.8m by the2013 year-end.
Currently the 2014 cost saving plan has not fully captured the 32.5m further headcountreduction.
Leverage Technology Software Platform: t Obtain a Malta B2B online gaming licence.
t The Maltese B2B online gaming licence was not granted in 2013 and is now due to be granted in Launch B2B offering to B2C licensed operators t Select a B2C operator and be prepared to launch March 2014. operating in dotcom markets.
inat least two dotcom markets in January 2014. t B2C operator Premium.
com has been selected Measurement weighting: 15% andcontracts prepared and agreed.
No launch in dotcom markets to date as awaiting Malta online gaming licence and platform sign-off.
After the year end the Executive Directors and Strategy Director reviewed the status of the 2013 strategic and transformational projects set out above and presented a status report to the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee then engaged the Companys Internal Audit department none of whom participate in the BIP to conduct a review of the status report and advise on its accuracy.
In ascertaining the relative importance of each of the six strategic transformational projects, each project was assigned a weighting set out in the table below.
In addition, on-target performance was treated as earning 70% of the maximum contribution, thereby incentivising management to outperform and achieve results above on-target.
Overall the Remuneration Committee concluded that the Executive Directors and senior management team had attained an overall achievement rate of 65.05%.
As a result of the above determination of the extent to which the above objectives were achieved, the following Element B share awards will be granted in March 2014 to the Executive Directors in the form of a nil-cost share option or restricted shares: Number of shares % of salary Name Face Value of award on grant % of maximum Vesting date Eligible for sale Norbert Teufelberger 806,405 195 March 2017 March 2019 977,202 65 Martin Weigold 539,485 147 March 2017 March 2019 653,748 65 Number of shares was calculated using the average share price for the 30 days to 31 December 2013, 121.18 pence.
The Director resigned from the Board during 2013.
For Tim Bristow and Lewis Moonie the 2013 includes payment in lieu of three months notice.
Manfred Bodner was the Chairman of the Integration Committee during 2013 and was the only Non-Executive Director entitled to participate in the BBP and VCP.
No contribution was earned for 2013 under the BBP or VCP.
The amount shown under the Other Remuneration column for 2012 relates to the amount paid out in respect of 2012 487,816.
This consisted of an amount of 348,750 which under the regulations would be considered a bonus payment and an amount of 139,066 which would be considered an LTIP payment.
The value deferred in respect of the 2012and 2011 contributions this deferred value in the form of 441,543 notional shares was valued at the average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2012 114.42 pence.
Thedeferred value crystallised after the Remuneration Committee determined that the audited Clean EBITDA gure for the year-ended 31 December 2013 exceeded 70% of the 2013 target seepage 97 and therefore the claw-back mechanism was not triggered.
The deferred value crystallised into an award of 441,543 shares, half vesting when the award is granted later this month and the balance on 1 January 2015.
These shares are valued at the average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2013 122.77 pence and the value is shown in the OtherRemuneration 2013 column.
Manfred Bodner does not participate in the BIP.
The Director was appointed during 2013.
D. Payments to past Directors There were no payments to past Directors.
E. Payments for loss of ofce There were not payments for loss of ofce during the year being reported on.
F. Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The following table sets out details of the Directors shareholdings and where there are shareholding requirements, whether these have been met: Number of shares Total number Share ownership owned outright Vested of shares or requirements including connected Deferred shares but unexercised Share ownership interests 2 Name % of salary persons under the BBP BIP share options requirements met in shares 3 Norbert Teufelberger 500 12,475,427 1,366,659 7,511,887 Yes 21,353,973 Martin Weigold 200 656,900 945,313 100,000 Yes 1,702,213 Simon Duffy 22,192 0 0 N A22,192 Rod Perry 5,086 0 0 N A5,086 4 Per Afrell 40,114 0 326,138 N A 366,252 3 Manfred Bodner 12,475,427 441,543 7,511,887 N A 20,428,857 Sylvia Coleman 000 N A0 4 Helmut Kern 0 0 326,138 N A 326,138 4 Georg Riedl 856,100 0 326,138 N A 1,182,238 Notes 1.
No Director exercised any share options during the year ended 31 December 2013.
These deferred shares relate to contributions earned under the BBP in 2011 and 2012.
These deferred contributions were subject to a 50% forfeiture mechanism in the BBP rules if the actual Clean EBITDA generated for 2013 was 70% or less of the Clean EBITDA target set for 2013 by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that the forfeiture provision has not been triggered and so 50% of these deferred shares vested immediately on the award being granted later in March 2014 and 50% on 1 January 2015.
The balancing gures inthis column relate to the restricted share awards to be made in March 2014 under Element B of the BIP see page 100.
These relate to awards made under the bwin.
party digital entertainment plc Rollover Option Plan the ROP.
For each individual 2,503,958 shares have a strike price of 123 pence option expires on 1 April 2020, 2,503,958 shares have a strike price of 157 pence option expires on 1 April 2020 and 2,503,971 shares have a strike price of 154 pence option expires 18 May 2020.
Prior to the merger bwin Interactive Entertainment AG, an Austrian company listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange and so not subject to the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, awarded fair market value share options to its non-executive directors.
The rules of the bwin option plan made no provision for the treatment of outstanding awards on a merger and therefore these legacy awards had to be rolled into options over bwin.
party shares under a new plan, the ROP.
These options have vested and will expire on 22 May 2020.
Approximately half of the shares have a strike price of 151 pence and the other half a strike price of155 pence.
No further share awards have been or will be made under the ROP.
102 2013 Directors Remuneration Report G. Performance graph and CEO remuneration table The Remuneration Committee has chosen to use the FTSE250 Index as the comparator, because the Company has been a constituent of this index for the last five years.
The following graph plots the value of 100 in bwin.
partys shares and in the FTSE250 Index from 31 December 2008 to 31December 2013.
The change in value of the holdings in the FTSE250 Index reects any changes in the constituent companies over the period.
Thevalue of dividend income is treated as reinvested in the period.
party FTSE 250 The following table setting out the total remuneration and amounts vesting under short-term and long-term incentive plans for the same period inrespect of the Director holding the position of CEO.
Annual bonus Long-term incentive CEO single gure of pay out as % vesting rates against total remuneration of the maximum maximum opportunity Year CEO opportunity % 1 2 2013 Norbert Teufelberger 2,191,585 32.15 0 2 2012 Norbert Teufelberger 1,750,073 58.27 0 2011 Jim Ryan 2,087,197 60.33 42.82 2010 Jim Ryan 2,135,120 100.00 100.00 2009 Jim Ryan 1,769,464 59.57 100.00 Notes 1.
This value represents the Element B BIP award made in respect of 2013.
Despite the fact that this is a share award vesting on the third anniversary of grant and the shares only being eligible forsale on the fifth anniversary of grant, the remuneration reporting regulations require the value of this award to be categorised as a bonus.
There was no cash bonus payment for 2013 in respect of the BBP.
The maximum opportunity in 2013 was 600% of salary 300% under the BBP and 300% under Element B of the BIP.
The Company operated the BBP and VCP in 2013 and 2012.
The BBP was subject to an annual assessment of performance and therefore, to the extent anything was earned during a year, thetotal value is accounted for in the Annual bonus pay out column.
Whilst technically part of any value earned under the BBP in the years of operation was deferred and at risk of forfeiture, the Remuneration Committee believes it would be confusing and potentially misleading to show part of the BBP value in the Long-term incentive column.
In 2013 and 2012 the Company also operated the VCP, which was uncapped, however, as described earlier in this report the performance conditions were not met and therefore no awards have been granted.
H. Percentage change in remuneration of CEO and average Group employee The following table sets out the percentage changes between 2013 and 2012 in respect of certain aspects of the remuneration of the CEO and an average of the Groups other employees.
Salary Short-term Role Change Benets incentives CEO 0% 12.82% -100% Average employee -6.51% -2.32% -46.80% bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 103 I.
Relative importance of spend on remuneration and other distributions The following table sets out the total amount spent in 2013 and 2012 on remuneration of the Groups employees and major distributions.
2013 Total 2012 Total % change from Distribution Expense m m 2012 to 2013 Employee remuneration 120.8 133.6 9.58 Distributions to shareholders 39.4 84.5 53.37 Technology expenditure 69.1 65.9 4.86 Marketing expenditure 159.4 210.7 24.35 Tax and gaming duty 84.3 84.2 0.12 The technology, marketing and tax and gaming duty expenditure metrics have been chosen, because these represent key expenditure items for theGroup.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 The Groups remuneration practices are managed in accordance with the remuneration policy set out above, a policy for which the Remuneration Committee is seeking shareholder approval of at this years AGM.
Consequently, the Remuneration Committee is not anticipating any changes in remuneration for the current year, except in respect of a salary freeze for the Executive Directors and senior management team in 2014.
Comparator group for remuneration The comparator group set by the Remuneration Committee for all remuneration benchmarking consists of the following companies: MGM Resorts Electronic Arts Netix International Game Expedia IAC InterActivecorp NCR Unibet Technology Lottomatica William Hill Ladbrokes HSN Bally Technologies Caesars Zynga Boyd Gaming Entertainment Aristocrat Leisure Betfair Group Take Two Interactive WMS Industries Betsson scientific Games Shufe Master Software Corporation Salary, benets and pension No change in 2014.
Salary freeze for Executive Directors.
Fees No change to fees for Non-Executive Directors.
BIP Operation for 2014 Maximum The maximum opportunity for the Executive Directors under each Element of the BIP is as follows: Maximum opportunity Maximum opportunity under Element A under Element B Name %age of Salary %age of Salary Norbert Teufelberger 250% 300% Martin Weigold 210% 225% BIP performance conditions and targets The following sets out the weighting of the targets for Element A and Element B: Element A t 75% on Clean EBITDA target.
Element B t 100% on achievement of strategic and transformational targets set for the year see page 99 for the targets set for 2013.
The targets for the BIP participants in 2014, the Clean EBITDA target for contributions under Element A and the 2014 strategic KPIs for Element B, have been set by the Remuneration Committee.
Owing, however, to the commercial sensitivity of the Clean EBITDA target this will not be disclosed until the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report is published in 2015, when statements regarding the extent to which this target has been attained will be published.
A summary of the 2014 strategic and transformational objectives set by the Remuneration Committee is set out below and the extent to which these targets have been achieved will be disclosed in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report: 104 2013 Directors Remuneration Report Strategic Transformation Project Measurement Metrics for 2014 Roll-out Fundamental Transformation of Technology t Up-skill technology employees on agile methodology and practices.
Organisation and Operations: t Fill skill gaps and refresh talent where necessary with a focus on key technology roles.
New agile methodology adopted to increase work throughput t Product development lifecycle to be re-engineered, documented and measured.
and utilise a leaner technology workforce that develops software more cheaply and brings it to market faster.
Lean and efficient engineering: increase platform availability, t Enhance the customer experience by improving platform availability and the time taken to x reduce software bugs and reduce technology debt incidents arising from software releases.
t Enable automated software releases to production stage.
t Service the decoupling of the poker and casino products.
t Improve automated test coverage for overall software system.
t Resolve half of the software bugs impacting the customer experience and improve the future bug resolution rate.
Market Channel Expansion: t For offering hosted on bwin.
party proprietary software target the percentage of total net gaming revenue in 2014 after tax NGR, so: All products and all brands available on mobile devices tabletsand smartphones via mobile browsing, IOS and 1.
More than 21% of NGR comes from mobile touch devices.
Androidin key territories: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, 2.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 more than 24% of NGR comes from mobile touch devices.
France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Russia, Spain, Switzerland and UK MainMarkets.
Value realisation of non-core assets and new business t Identify and sell the Groups interests in all non-core assets and businesses.
Independent US set-up: t Establish independent technology, commercial and operational functions servicing the regulated online gaming markets in the US.
Establish independent US set-up to support state by state roll-out and establish exibility to maximise value.
t The stand-alone US structure should be structured to able to lead the opening of new offerings in newly-regulated states with little central support.
Strategic Move from Volume to Value: t Achieve in 2014 25m in total cost savings compared with the December 2013 annualised run-rate.
Further roll-out the revised business approach, focusing on t The annualised workforce cost for the B2C core businesses at 31 December 2014 shall be 10m servicing those customers that provide the most value rather lower than the workforce cost at 31 December 2013. than aiming to increase the volume of customers irrespective oftheir value.
Leverage Technology Software Platform: t Launch in 90% of all the B2C operators target markets, having first obtained the Malta B2B online gaming licence.
Launch B2B offering to B2C licensed operator operating indotcom markets.
Shareholding requirement In 2013 Executive Directors were required to own bwin.
party shares equivalent to 100% of their annual salary.
However, in conjunction with the adoption of the BIP in 2014, the Board has increased the shareholding requirements for the Executive Directors: Shareholding requirement Value of shareholding at the year Director as a % of annual salary end as a % of salary CEO 500 3,140 CFO 200 242 Senior Executives reporting into the CEO 100 n a K. Committees and advisers that considered remuneration issues The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee oversight of the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, Executive Directors and senior executives reporting into the CEO.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are: t Rod Perry Chairman t Per Afrell t Sylvia Coleman appointed 17 October 2013 t Helmut Kern t Lewis Moonie resigned on 16 October 2013 The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available on bwin.
During 2013 the main item of business for the Committee was the design and nalisation of the BIP.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman is a matter for the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Executive Directors.
No other Board committee carried out any remuneration-related matters in 2013. bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c Governa Governanc nce e Fi Fin na anc nci ia al l rep repo or rt t p per erf for orma mance nce 105 The Remuneration Committee met five times in 2013 in order to full its duties.
The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive officer, Company Secretary and Group Human Resources Director were invited to advise or provide information to Remuneration Committee members and attend meetings on a number of occasions during the year.
The Company Secretary is the Remuneration Committee secretary.
No individual was involved in any decision regarding that individuals remuneration.
 LLP PwC in London has been retained to provide guidance to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters and in particular general practice and developments in executive remuneration.
PwC also provides advice on short-and long-term incentive plans and during 2013 provided assistance in devising the BIP and supporting the Remuneration Committee Chairmans consultation process with major shareholders regarding the proposed BIP.
PwC was appointed by the Remuneration Committee in 2010 following a tender process at which a number of remuneration advisory rms participated.
PwCs performance is evaluated by the Remuneration Committee at least once a year.
During 2013 separate departments within the PwC organisation provided internal audit reviews in respect of the Groups controls in respect of bingo marketing and technology product management and development.
In addition, PwC in France and Italy provided tax advisory and compliance services to one of the Groups French and Italian subsidiaries.
This work was completely unrelated and segregated from the work performed by PwCs remuneration consultancy business and in the Remuneration Committees judgement did not undermine PwCs independence.
In addition, PwC is a signatory to and follows the provision of the Remuneration Consultants Code.
PwC worked with the Company to implement the Committees policies.
PwCs fees were based on agreed amounts for each of the projects carried out.
The total fees for PwC in relation to advice provided to the Committee during the year being reported on were 280,500.
L. Statement of Voting at General Meeting At the last Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 19 June 2013, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: Votes Withheld Resolution Votes For % For Votes Against % Against Total Votes Cast Abstentions To approve the 2012 459,625,439 93.70 30,905,503 6.30 490,530,942 48,510,837 Directors Remuneration Report 2012 On 24 February 2014 an extraordinary general meeting of the Company was held to approve the BIP and the votes cast by proxy and at the meeting were as follows: Votes Withheld Resolution Votes For % For Votes Against % Against Total Votes Cast Abstentions To approve the BIP 410,279,568 69.66 178,731,675 30.34 589,011,243 107,456 Of the above votes cast against the resolution, 49,829,863 shares were voted by SpringOwl Gibraltar Partners B Limited, which only purchased this stake the week prior to the EGM and so was not involved in the Companys extensive consultation with major shareholders on the BIP.
The trustees of the divestiture trusts owning Emerald Bay Limited and Stinson Ridge Limited, which in aggregate held 67,167,470 bwin.
party shares, also voted against the resolution.
party Directors were surprised at this decision, because the former bwin.
party Director nominated by Emerald Bay Limited and Stinson Ridge Limited participated in discussions with the Remuneration Committee in 2012 and 2013 over the structure of the BIP and did not object to its design.
In addition, the Companys efforts to engage with the trustees on this issue were frustrated by each divestiture trust having appointed three different trustees since 30 October 2013.
Despite meetings and correspondence with the trustees, the Directors were disappointed that the Company was not informed of their views until the EGM vote.
The Remuneration Committee was pleased to see, however, thatof the other shareholders that voted at the EGM, 87% approved the BIP Rod Perry Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 13 March 2014
