The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 to make himself herself aware of any relevant investment policies.
The Company currently does not audit information as defined and to establish hold any shares in the capital of the Company in that the Companys Auditors are aware of that Treasury.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for The above confirmation is given and should be cancellation resolution 12 interpreted in accordance with the provisions of At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2012, Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006. shareholders gave authority to the Company to enable it to purchase up to 14.99% of its then Independent Auditors issued share capital.
This authority will expire  LLP have expressed their on 22nd November 2013 unless renewed by willingness to continue in office as Auditors to the shareholders.
The Directors consider that the Company and resolutions proposing their renewing of the authority is in the interests of re-appointment and authorising the Directors to shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will shares at a discount to the underlying net asset be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
value NAV enhances the NAV of the remaining shares.
Annual General Meeting Note: This section is important and requires your Approval of dividend policy resolution 13 immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the The Directors seek approval of the Companys action you should take you should seek your own dividend policy to continue to pay four quarterly personal financial advice from your stock broker, interim dividends, which in the year ended bank manager, solicitor, or other financial advisor 31st January 2013 have totalled 36 pence per share.
authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Recommendation Resolutions relating to the following item of special The Board considers resolutions 10-13 are likely to business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual promote the success of the Company and are in the General Meeting: best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend pre-emption rights resolutions 10 and 11 to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the which amount in aggregate to 49,952 shares AGM to issue up to 4,922,785 Ordinary shares for cash representing approximately 0.05% of the existing up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,230,696 issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The such amount being equivalent to 5% of the present full text of the resolutions are set out in the Notice issued ordinary share capital as at the last practicable of Meeting on pages 53 to 54. date before the publication of this document.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Corporate Governance Meeting on pages 53 to 54.
This authority will expire Compliance at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2014 The Company is committed to high standards of unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
This statement, together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue page 30, indicates how the Company has applied the new shares to participants purchasing shares through principles of good governance of the Financial the JPMorgan savings products and also to other Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code investors when the Directors consider that it is in the the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues Code of Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, are only made at prices greater than the net asset which complements the UK Corporate Governance value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and Code and provides a framework of best practice for spread the Companys administrative expenses, other investment trusts.
than the management fee which is charged on the value of the Companys market capitalisation, over a The Board is responsible for ensuring the greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are appropriate level of corporate governance and available for investment in line with the Companys considers that the Company has complied with the 24 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors Report continued best practice provisions of the UK Corporate the Companys business and brief biographical details Governance Code and the AIC Code throughout the of each Director are set out on pages 17 and 18. year under review, other than in respect of the A review of Board composition and balance is included provisions relating to the appointment of a senior as part of the annual performance evaluation of the independent director and the engagement of an Board.
The Board has considered whether a senior external recruitment consultancy, both of which are independent director should be appointed and has explained below.
concluded that, as the Board consists entirely of non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
Role of the Board A management agreement between the Company Tenure and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the The Chairman and Sandy Nairn, having been Manager has authority.
This includes management Directors of the Company for more than nine years, of the Companys assets and the provision of have retained their independence by submitting to accounting, company secretarial, administration, annual re-election.
Directors are initially appointed until the following All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Articles of Association, it is required that they be Board for decision has been approved.
This includes elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, subject to the determination and monitoring of the Companys performance evaluation carried out each year, the investment objectives and policy and its future Board will agree whether it is appropriate for each strategic direction, gearing policy, management of Director to seek re-election.
In accordance with the the capital structure, appointment and removal of UK Corporate Governance Code, from 2011 onwards, third party service providers, review of key Directors continuing in office have sought annual investment and financial data and the Companys re-election.
corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments The Board has procedures in place to deal with are set out in formal letters of appointment, copies potential conflicts of interest and following the of which are available for inspection on request at introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, has adopted the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
The Board recommends the election and re-election of It confirms that the procedures have operated the Directors who each seek election and re-election at effectively during the year under review.
The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Induction and Training Full and timely information is provided to the Board On appointment, the Manager and Company to enable it to function effectively and to allow Secretary provide all Directors with induction Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Thereafter, regular briefings are provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are independent professional advice if necessary and at encouraged to attend industry and other seminars the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the covering issues relevant to investment trust access that every Director has to the advice and companies.
Regular reviews of the Directors training services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is needs are carried out by the Nomination Committee responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable by means of the evaluation process below.
rules and regulations are complied with and that Board procedures are followed.
Meetings and Committees The Board delegates certain responsibilities and Board Composition functions to committees.
Details of membership of The Board, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, consists committees are shown with the Directors profiles of six non-executive Directors, all of whom are on pages 17 and 18.
Directors who are not members regarded by the Board as independent, including the of Committees may attend at the invitation of the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment, Chairman.
business and financial skills and experience relevant to The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 The table below details the number of Board, Audit Audit Committee Committee and Nomination Committee meetings The Audit Committee, chaired by Ian Russell, consists attended by each Director.
During the year there of all the Directors other than the Chairman and were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meets at least twice each year.
The members of the meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of Audit Nomination the Committee for details of their qualifications see Board Committee Committee pages 17 and 18.
Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Attended Attended Attended The Committee reviews the actions and judgements 1 of the Manager in relation to the half year and Hamish Leslie Melville 5 2 1 annual accounts and the Companys compliance with Sir Richard Beckett 5 2 1 the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It reviews the The Right Hon.
terms of the management agreement and examines 2 The Earl of Halifax21 0 the effectiveness of the Companys risk management Helen James 5 2 1 and internal control systems, receives information Sandy Nairn 5 2 1 from the Managers Compliance department and 2 Charles Peel 21 0 reviews the scope and results of the external audit, Ian Russell 5 2 1 its cost effectiveness, the balance of audit and Jeremy Tigue 5 2 1 non-audit services, and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
In the Directors 1 Attended by invitation.
opinion, the Auditors are considered independent.
The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility Board Committees for making recommendations to the Board on the Nomination Committee re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, consists of all the Directors and meets at Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the least annually to ensure that the Board has an Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual appropriate balance of skills and experience to carry Report & Accounts are considered.
Having reviewed out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose the performance of the external auditors, the suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
Committee considered it appropriate to recommend The appointment process takes account of the their reappointment.
The Board supported this benefits of diversity, including gender.
recommendation which will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board has a wide network of contacts within the field of financial services and beyond, and In order to safeguard the Auditors objectivity and believes that the engagement of the services of an independence, any significant non-audit services are external recruitment consultancy is consequently carried out through a partner other than the audit unnecessary at present, although this will be kept engagement partner where appropriate.
Jeremy Tigue was appointed a Director for audit services, audit-related services and other non-audit services are set out, where relevant, in on 26th March 2012. note 5 on page 39.
There were no significant The Committee conducts an annual performance non-audit engagements during the year under review.
evaluation, to ensure that all members of the Board Representatives of the Companys auditors attend the have devoted sufficient time and contributed Committee meeting at which the draft annual report adequately to the work of the Board.
The Committee and accounts are considered.
The Directors statement also reviews Directors fees and makes on the Companys system of risk management and recommendations to the Board as and when internal control is set out on pages 26 and 27. appropriate.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit On an annual basis each Director submits a list Committee have written terms of reference which of potential conflicts of interest for approval at define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies the Nomination Committee meeting.
These are of which are available for inspection on the considered carefully, taking into account the Companys website, on request at the Companys circumstances surrounding them, and, if considered registered office and at the Companys AGM.
appropriate, are approved for a period of one year.
26 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors Report continued Relations with Shareholders Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile Information about environmental matters, and social of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a and community issues is set out on pages 27 and 28. full understanding of the Companys activities and The Company has no employees.
performance and reports formally to shareholders four Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights times a year by way of the Annual Report and At the year end and the date of this report, the Accounts, Half Year Financial Report and two Interim following had declared a notifiable interest in the Management Statements.
This is supplemented by the Companys voting rights: daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
Number of Shareholders voting rights % All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual General AXA Investment Meeting at which the Directors and representatives Managers UK Ltd 11,682,437 11.85 of the Manager are available in person to meet with Brewin Dolphin Ltd 9,949,695 10.09 shareholders and answer questions.
In addition, a Rathbone Investment presentation is given by the Investment Managers Management Ltd 7,844,301 7.96 who review the Companys performance.
During the 1 Chase Nominees Ltd 6,943,890 7.04 year the Companys brokers and the Investment Investec Wealth & Managers hold regular discussions with larger Investment Ltd 5,339,435 5.42 shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make Quilter & Co Ltd 4,182,873 4.24 themselves available as and when required to Legal & General Group Plc 3,221,648 3.27 address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be 1 Held on behalf of JPMAM Share Plan, ISA and SIPP participants.
contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 57.
Miscellaneous Information The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is The rules concerning the appointment and published in time to give shareholders at least replacement of Directors, amendment of the Articles 20 working days notice of the Annual General of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in Companys shares are contained in the Articles of advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Association of the Company and the Companies Acts.
questions via the Companys website or write to the There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of Company Secretary at the address shown on page 57. securities in the Company: no special rights with Details of the proxy voting position on each regard to control attached to securities: no resolution will be published on the Companys agreements between holders of securities regarding website shortly after the Annual General Meeting.
their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that affect its control Section 992 Companies Act 2006 following a takeover bid: and no agreements The following disclosures are made in accordance between the Company and its directors concerning with Section 992 Companies Act 2006. compensation for loss of office.
Risk Management and Internal Control Capital Structure The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the The Companys capital structure is summarised on Directors, at least annually, to review the the inside front cover of this report.
effectiveness of the Companys system of risk management and internal control and to report to Voting Rights in the Companys shares shareholders that they have done so.
This As at 20th March 2013 being the latest business day encompasses a review of all controls, which the prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys Board has identified as including business, financial, issued share capital consists of 98,455,719 Ordinary operational, compliance and risk management.
shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights of the Company are 98,455,719.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27 The Directors are responsible for the Companys system The Board, either directly or through the Audit of risk management and internal control which is Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness of designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain the Companys system of risk management and proper accounting records and ensure that financial internal control by monitoring the operation of the information used within the business, or published, key operating controls of the Manager and its is reliable.
However, such a system can only be associates as follows: designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of reviews the terms of the management agreement failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can and receives regular reports from JPMAMs only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance Compliance department: against fraud, material mis-statement or loss.
reviews reports on the risk management and Since investment management, custody of assets and internal controls and the operations of its all administrative services are provided to the custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself Company by JPMAM and its associates, the Companys independently reviewed: and system of risk management and internal control the Directors review on a regular basis an mainly consists of monitoring the services provided independent report on the risk management and by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
There is an ongoing By the means of the procedures set out above, the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness significant risks faced by the Company see Principal of the Companys system of risk management and Risks on page 21.
This process has been in place for internal control for the year ended 31st January 2013, the year under review and up to the date of approval and to the date of approval of this Annual Report of the Annual Report & Accounts and it accords with and Accounts.
The Company does not have During the course of its review of the system of risk an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the management and internal control, the Board has not internal audit department of JPMAM.
This identified nor been advised of any failings or arrangement is kept under annual review.
The key weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
elements designed to provide effective risk management and internal control are as follows: Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive The Company delegates responsibility for voting to review by the Board of key investment and financial JPMAM.
data, including management accounts, revenue The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy projections, analysis of transactions and performance statements on corporate governance, voting policy comparisons.
and social and environmental issues, which has been Management Agreement Appointment of a manager reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
and custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly Corporate Governance defined in a written agreement.
JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering Management Systems The Managers system of risk superior investment performance to our clients, we expect management and internal control includes and encourage the companies in which we invest to organisational agreements which clearly define the demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control and best business practice.
We examine the share structure procedures and systems.
These are monitored by and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, JPMAMs Compliance department which regularly as well as the board balance, oversight functions and monitors compliance with FSA rules.
These analyses then form the basis Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
28 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors Report continued Proxy Voting increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted environmental factors have the potential to impact the share to it as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings called by their industry.
companies in which we are invested.
JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six Stewardship Engagement principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its processes when making stock selection decisions and clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
Under the Code, managers should: Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge social and environmental risk in project finance.
their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: Guidelines are available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from monitor their investee companies: JPMAMs website: establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: http: www.
This also sets out its approach to the be willing to act collectively with other investors where seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its appropriate: policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record.
voting record: and report to clients.
By order of the Board JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, We believe that regular contact with the companies in which Company Secretary we invest is central to our investment process and we also 21st March 2013 recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code of our clients.
may be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk Social & Environmental JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that,
