The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Audit Committee Report The principal role of the Audit Committee is to assist the board the non-audit services provided by the auditor and determined in relation to the reporting of financial information, the review of that they have had no impact on the auditors independence and financial controls and the management of risk.
The audit committee believes the performance of the has defined terms of reference and duties and the terms of auditor is satisfactory and recommended their reappointment reference are published on the companys website.
These include to the board.
The audit committee reviews the companys responsibility for the review of the Annual Financial Report and the accounting policies and considers their appropriateness.
The Half-yearly Financial Report, the nature and scope of the external committee also reviews the terms of appointment of the auditor audit and the findings therefrom and the terms of appointment together with their remuneration.
The audit committee continues of the auditor, including their remuneration and the provision to believe that the company does not require an internal audit of any non-audit services by them.
Non-audit services of 3,600 function of its own as it delegates its day to day operations to third in the year were for the auditors certification of borrowing parties from whom it receives internal controls reports.
These fees are considered by the audit The audit committee has noted the AIC Code provisions committee to be proportionate to the fees for audit services of relating to the tendering for external audit contracts every 28,915 2012 - 23,056. ten years.
The audit committee is also aware of a number of The audit committee consists of all of the independent noncurrent deliberations taking place by other bodies such as the executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman, and has EU Commission and the Financial Reporting Council in the UK defined terms of reference and duties.
The committee considers on the same subject.
Our auditor,  LLP, that, collectively, its members have sufficient recent and relevant has been the companys appointed auditor for many years.
It financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully: two is therefore the intention of the audit committee to review the of the three committee members are chartered accountants.
situation of the companys auditor tenure over the coming year During the year the committee met twice during which the in the light of the settling Code provisions on this matter, with a Annual Financial Report and the Half-yearly Financial Report view to recommend to the board an appropriate policy and future respectively were reviewed in detail.
These meetings were course of action.
attended by representatives of the manager including their As the company has no employees it does not have a formal compliance officer.
At each meeting the committee received a policy concerning the raising, in confidence, of any concerns report from the compliance officer on the operation of financial about improprieties, whether in matters of financial reporting or controls relating to the company and the proper conduct of its otherwise, for appropriate independent investigation.
However, business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which any matters concerning the company may be raised with both the company and the manager operate.
The committee the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director.
The audit also considered the auditors report on the annual financial committee has, however, received and noted the managers policy statements, the planning and the process of the audit and the on this matter.
It has also considered Mike McKeon Audit Committee Chairman 27 March 2013 36
