Audit Committee report Th is report sets out the membership, purposes and activities of the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Committee has undertaken a number of key activities, including considering the effects of the disposal of the Monaco & Islands and Macau business units, reviews ofjudgemental accounting and disclosure issues such asexceptional items, revenue recognition, the risk management framework and the effectiveness of the Groups external audit arrangements.
Ian Tyler Chairman of the Audit Committee 2012 13 Key activities Reviewing the annual report and accounts, The appointment of a new head of internal audit preliminary results and press release for the year Reviewing the status of Group litigation ended 31 March 2012 Assessing the external auditors independence and Reviewing the composition and balance of trade undertaking an evaluation of the external auditor receivables and accrued income during the year to assess the level of exposure within the Group Reviewing external audit strategy and fees, including the impact of the disposals on the scope Reviewing the nature and disclosure of exceptional of the audit items Review of tax risk and treasury, accounting and tax Reviewing the Groups revenue recognition policies policies and their application Reviewing the interim results and press release for Reviewing the internal control and risk the six months ended 30 September 2012 management framework processes and how they are implemented by the regional business units Monitoring Group insurance cover Reviewing the effectiveness of the in-house audit Reviewing the accounting impact of the disposal of team and the co-source arrangements as well as the Monaco & Islands and Macau business units the internal audit plan, taking into consideration This report should be read in conjunction with the the transformational activity during the year Directors and corporate governance report on pages 38 to 47.
48 Cable & Wireless Communications Audit Committee membership Meetings The Audit Committee the Committee is comprised solely of The Committee held four scheduled meetings during the year ended independent Non-executive Directors.
Details of Committee membership and individual attendance at the meetings by members are given in the table on Membership and attendance at meetings this page.
Simon Ball 4 4 The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, 1 Mary Francis 0 1 Head of Internal Audit and representatives from KPMG Audit Plc Mark Hamlin 4 4 KPMG, the Companys external auditor, are also invited to attend all 2 Alison Platt 3 3 Committee meetings.
In May and November when the full year and Ian Tyler 4 4 half year results are considered, the Chairman is also invited to attend.
The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee Chairman 1 Mary Francis retired from the Committee with effect from 30 June 2012. in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial 2 Alison Platt was appointed as a member of the Committee with effect from 1 June 2012.
Controller and the external auditor.
Each scheduled meeting commences with a private session, attended only by Committee With effect from 1 June 2012, Ian Tyler was appointed Chairman of members, the external auditor and Head of Internal Audit, to take the Committee and Alison Platt a member of the Committee.
soundings on matters to be discussed at the meeting or any other matters attendees wish to highlight.
At each meeting the Committee The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the then receives reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the external Committee has recent and relevant financial experience and is auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, together with biannual confident that the collective experience of the members enables litigation reports.
them to act as an effective Audit Committee.
The outcomes of Committee meetings are reported to the Board.
Disclosure Committee To assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for Terms of reference identifying and considering disclosure matters in connection with The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to the preparation of all market releases containing material financial carry out its duties.
information has been delegated to a Disclosure Committee.
This The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms Committee comprises members of senior management from of reference during the period and the full terms of reference are finance, legal, company secretarial and investor relations.
During the preparation of the Annual report, the Disclosure The principal duties of the Committee are set out in the terms of Committee obtains certifications from contributors prior to the reference and include: documents review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
To review and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls, Whistle blowing internal audit and risk management systems The Company provides an Ethics Helpline which is administered by To review and approve the internal audit programme, ensuring an independent third party and is available to all Group employees adequate resources and co-ordination with external auditors via a web-portal or by telephone.
This provides a mechanism for employees to raise concerns where they either do not feel To monitor the integrity of the financial statements and comfortable raising the matter with local management or they are announcements relating to financial performance, and review not satisfied with the local management response.
significant judgements contained in them To monitor the financial reporting process and the effectiveness Internal Audit of the statutory audit of the Annual report Internal Audit is led by the Head of Internal Audit, supported by a team of in-house auditors based in the UK and Jamaica, To review and monitor independence and performance of external supplemented by a third party to provide specific skills as required.
auditors, recommend their appointment, re-appointment and The internal audit plan is approved by the Committee annually.
removal to the Board as appropriate and develop policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services Annual report 2012 13 49 Audit Committee report continued External audit The Committee has established a policy to maintain the The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation that independence of the external auditor and its personnel and to KPMG should be retained for 2013 14.
This recommendation was govern the provision of audit and non-audit services provided by based on a detailed review of the 2011 12 audit of the Company the auditor and its associates.
The policy clearly identifies permitted which demonstrated overall satisfaction with the performance and prohibited services and sets out the procedure to be followed of KPMG as external auditor.
The review included a survey of for the approval of all audit and non-audit services.
All engagements Committee members and key personnel involved in the audit, with an expected fee in excess of US$400,000 require the prior discussions with KPMG, senior management and Internal Audit, approval of the Chairman of the Committee, and to be reported to as well as an analysis of KPMGs capabilities and independence.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner For the year ended 31 March 2013 the Committee approved fees responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The audit for audit services of US$4.3 million, together with fees for auditengagement partner responsible for the 2012 13 audit will rotate related regulatory reporting of US$0.8 million and non-audit work of following the completion of the Groups 2013 14 audit cycle.
The nature of the services provided is set out in note 6e to the consolidated financial statements.
There is no limitation KPMG was appointed as auditor of the Company during the financial of liability in the terms of appointment of KPMG as auditor to the year 2009 10 and also acted as auditor of Cable and Wireless Company.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditors.
A revised version of Ian Tyler the UK Corporate Governance Code was issued by the Financial Chairman, Audit Committee Reporting Council in September 2012 which provides that FTSE 350 21 May 2013 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
The Committee will consider these provisions and developing guidance in relation to audit tendering and rotation in light of emerging practice during the course of the financial year ending 31 March 2014.
KPMG has instigated an orderly wind down of KPMG Audit Plc as a result of an internal reorganisation and requested that going forward the audit is instead undertaken by KPMG LLP an intermediate parent of KPMG Audit Plc.
KPMG Audit Plc will not therefore be seeking re-appointment as auditor of the Company and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP as our auditor will be put to the 2013 AGM.
