Statement of Corporate Governance Introduction The Board The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to The Board sets the Companys values and objectives, and describe how they have complied with the principles of the ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are met.
It has UK Corporate Governance Code published in May 2010 the formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to Governance Code, which is available on the Financial be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains Reporting Councils website: www.
The Governance full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, Code covers in particular the annual re-election of Directors, operational and compliance issues.
Board diversity, external evaluation, the Boards responsibilities in relation to risk, and a clear explanation of These matters include: business model and strategy.
"the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk management policies: The Association of Investment Companies AIC published the monitoring of the business activities of the Company, a Code of Corporate Governance ""AIC Code"" and a ranging from analysis of investment performance to annual Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance analysis: AIC Guide in June 2010 which are available on the AICs Companies Act requirements, such as the approval of the website: www."
The AIC Code, as explained by the half-yearly and annual Financial Statements, and approval AIC Guide, addresses all of the principles set out in Section 1 and recommendation of the interim and final dividends of the Governance Code, as well as setting out additional respectively: principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific setting the range of gearing in which the Manager may relevance to investment trusts.
operate: major changes relating to the Companys structure, The Board considers that reporting against the principles and including share buy-backs and share issues: recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the Board appointments and removals and the related terms: AIC Guide which incorporates the Governance Code will appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms provide better information to shareholders.
and conditions of the management and administration agreements relating thereto: In respect of the year ending 30 June 2014, the Board will terms of reference and membership of Board Committees: report its corporate governance compliance against the new Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Conduct AIC Code of Corporate Governance for investment Authority approval of all circulars and listing particulars, companies which was published in February 2013 and which and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by is effective for financial years commencing on or after 1 the Board.
The February 2013 AIC Code incorporates changes made to the UK Corporate Governance Code in The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors, September 2012. all of whom held office throughout the year under review with the exception of Ms Park, who was appointed a Director Application of the Principles of the Codes on 2 July 2012, Mr Cameron, who was appointed a Director on 5 September 2012 and Ms Glen, who retired from the The Company has complied with the recommendations of Board on 23 October 2012.
The names and biographies of all the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the the current Directors appear on pages 20 and 21 of this Governance Code, except the Governance Code provisions Annual Report, and indicate their range of investment, relating to: industrial, commercial and professional experience.
The role of the chief executive A.
"1.2 The Board has assessed the independence of the Directors Executive directors remuneration D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 against the criteria set out in the Codes, and has concluded that they are all independent of the investment manager, For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide and in the preamble Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited ""Aberdeen or the to the Governance Code, the Board considers these Manager, and free of any relationship which could provisions are not relevant to the position of Murray Income materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Trust PLC, being an externally-managed investment judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and company."
The Company has, therefore, not reported further standards of conduct.
in respect of these provisions.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has put in place Mr Gifford will, by the Annual General Meeting, have served a framework for corporate governance, which it believes is as a Director for more than 13 years.
The Governance Code appropriate for an investment trust.
states that, following appointment, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
However, the Murray Income Trust PLC 27 Statement of Corporate Governance continued AIC Code states that the test of independence continues to focus at regular Board meetings is the review of investment be appropriate and, consequently, the Board will follow the performance and associated matters, including gearing, asset AIC Code.
The Board takes the view that independence is not allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group compromised by length of service on the Board, and that information and industry issues.
experience can add significantly to the Boards strength.
The Board is, therefore, satisfied that Mr Gifford, as Chairman, Board Audit, Nomination and Meetings Remuneration Committee continues to have the appropriate experience, knowledge and Director Attended Meetings Attended independence to remain in this role.
As recommended by the Governance Code, Mr Gifford will stand for annual reP A F Gifford 4 4 4 4 election.
2 2 4 4 D A Cameron 2 2 2 2 M Glen The re-election of each of the Directors, whose biographies 4 4 4 4 N A Honebon appear on pages 20 and 21, was considered and approved by 4 4 4 4 J C Park the Nomination Committee.
The continuing independent 4 4 4 4 H van der Klugt and objective judgement of the Directors was confirmed in 4 4 4 4 the annual Board performance evaluation process.
This D E Woods consists of an appraisal of the Chairman of the Board as well Ms Park was appointed on 2 July 2012 and Mr Cameron on as a performance evaluation of the Board as a whole and the 5 September 2012.
Ms Glen retired on 23 October 2012.
Directors individually including assessment of training requirements to ensure that the Directors have devoted In order to enable the Board to function effectively and allow sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely the Board and Committees, and to consider each Directors access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of independence.
During the year ended 30 June 2011, the Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of Board used an external consultant to carry out an evaluation papers, including the Managers report and discussion of the Boards performance.
The external consultant held documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made individual meetings with each Director, with the consultants further enquiries where necessary.
report on the outcome being discussed with the Chairman of the Board and the Board as a whole.
It is the Boards There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take intention to use an external consultant to assist in the independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Boards performance evaluation at least every three years Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice and, accordingly, the Board plans to repeat this exercise and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its during the year to 30 June 2014.
The Board and Committee appointed representatives, who are responsible to the Board: have also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors other for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with: commitments and are satisfied that the Chairman and other under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good Directors are capable of devoting sufficient time to the information flows with the Board and its committees, as Company and contribute to the effective running of the well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional Company.
The Board evaluation process also confirmed that development as required: and the performance of the Directors standing for re-election for advising through the Chairman on all corporate continued to be effective and that they continued to governance matters.
demonstrate commitment in their roles.
When a Director is appointed, an induction process is The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
This involves induction meetings Mr van der Klugt has been appointed Senior Independent which cover details about the Company, its Manager, legal Director SID, to whom any concerns can be conveyed by responsibilities and investment trust industry matters.
Mr Honebon will be appointed SID Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key following Mr van der Klugts retirement at the AGM on 25 information on the Companys policies, regulatory and October 2013. statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board During the year ended 30 June 2013, the Board met four as they arise.
Directors have also taken part in various times.
The meetings of the Management Engagement training specific to non-executive Directors.
Committee held in June 2012 and July 2013 are not recorded in the table.
Details of attendance by each of the Directors The Board has a formal process for the consideration and and Committee members at Board and Committee meetings authorisation by the Board of Directors' reported actual and are shown in the table.
Between meetings, the Board potential conflicts of interest at each Board meeting.
In maintains regular contact with the Manager.
The primary accordance with the Company's Articles of Association and 28 Murray Income Trust PLC relevant legislation, each Director abstains from approval of the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. their own position.
Following the implementation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the Bribery Act 2010, the Board has adopted appropriate position of Chairman, the recommendation for which procedures designed to prevent bribery.
would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual In considering the appointment of a new Director, the performance evaluation, using questionnaires and discussion, Committee ensures that the Board continues to have the to ensure that all its members have devoted sufficient time right balance of skills, diversity, experience, age and length of and contributed adequately to the work of the Board and service.
It may use the professional services of a search Committees, and to consider each Directors independence.
consultant to identify suitable candidates for review by the The Chairman has also been evaluated by his fellow Board, and did so in recruiting the two most recent Directors Directors.
The Board considers that none of his other to have joined the Board.
The terms of reference of the commitments set out on page 20 of this Report interfere Nomination Committee state that the Committee must with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Company, consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria and is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the serve the Company effectively.
There have been no Board, including gender.
Lord Davies review of gender significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments diversity on the boards of listed companies was published in during the year.
February 2011 and updated in April 2013.
It made a number of recommendations, and concluded that quotas were not the preferred option and might indeed be counterproductive.
External Agencies Since 2006, women have comprised nearly 20% of the The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, Board, and the Board is supportive of the principle of including the Manager and other service providers, certain diversity.
The Financial Reporting Council has recently services: the management of the investment portfolio: the conducted a consultation on whether further changes are custodial services which include the safeguarding of the needed to the Governance Code in order to help achieve assets : the registration services: and the day-to-day more diverse boards, and the outcome of that review is accounting and company secretarial functions.
contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, in so Audit Committee far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board An Audit Committee has been established and comprises all receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular independent Directors including the Company Chairman.
In addition, ad hoc reports and information are Board considers it appropriate that the Company Chairman is supplied to the Board as requested.
a member of the Audit Committee, although he may not chair it, provided that he is considered by the Board to be Committees independent, as is currently the case.
Mr van der Klugt, a Nomination Committee chartered accountant, is the Chairman of the Audit A Nomination Committee has been established with written Committee.
Ms Jean Park, a chartered accountant, will terms of reference which are available on the Companys succeed Mr van der Klugt as Chairman of the Committee website and comprises the full Board.
The Chairman of the following his retirement at the AGM on 25 October 2013.
Committee is the Chairman of the Company.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are available on request and on the Companys website, are The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on reviewed and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual the following matters: basis.
The Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP, the the identification and nomination of candidates to fill Companys auditor, to be independent of the Company.
Board vacancies as and when they arise, for the approval of the Board: The matters considered by the Committee during the year plans for succession: included: the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the the review of the effectiveness of the risk management conclusion of their specified term of office: systems and internal control environment of the Company the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the to assist in this the Committee received reports from the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles internal auditors of the Manager and external auditor on a of Association and in accordance with the UK Corporate regular basis: Governance Code: the review of the half-yearly and annual Financial Reports: the continuation in office of any Director at any time: the review of the terms of appointment of the auditor together with their remuneration, as well as the non-audit Murray Income Trust PLC 29 Statement of Corporate Governance continued services provided by the auditor if applicable.
During the Policy on Tenure year under review, fees amounting to 2,000 2012 - The Boards policy on tenure is that Directors need not serve 4,000 were paid to the auditor in respect of non-audit on the Board for a limited period of time only.
The Board will review any future fees in the light does not consider that the length of service of a Director is of the requirement to maintain the auditors as important as the contribution he or she has to make, and independence : therefore the length of service will be determined on a casethe review of the scope and the results of the audit, its cost by-case basis.
effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditor, with particular regard to non-audit fees it should Communication with Shareholders be noted that the auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, rotate the partner responsible for the audit every five years : The Company places a great deal of importance on the review of the management agreement: communication with its shareholders.
The Manager, meetings with representatives of the Manager.
accompanied often by the Chairman, has an annual programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, and Management Engagement Committee reports back to the Board on these meetings.
As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management Engagement Committee has been established, comprising The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures the full Board.
The Chairman of the Committee is the that, when shares in the Company are held in the name of Chairman of the Company.
The Committee annually reviews nominee companies and notification has been received in matters concerning the investment management agreement advance, nominee companies will be provided with copies of in place between the Company and Aberdeen Asset shareholder communications for distribution to their Managers Limited.
Details of this agreement are shown on customers.
Nominee investors may make arrangements to page 25. attend and speak at general meetings.
Remuneration Committee and Directors Remuneration Participants in the Managers Savings Plan, whose shares are Under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 15.6.
6, where held in the nominee names of the plan administrator, are an investment trust has only non-executive directors, the given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Governance Code principles relating to directors Direction enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of remuneration do not apply.
However, the Company does Direction is forwarded to the administrator of the Savings have a Remuneration Committee, comprising the full Board, Plan, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and whose Chairman is Mr van der Klugt.
Mr Honebon will and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the succeed Mr van der Klugt as Chairman of the Committee voting figures.
following his retirement at the AGM on 25 October 2013.
Those participants who wish to attend the Annual General Meeting are able to make arrangements with the The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to administrator of the Savings Plan to do so, and to vote on a attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future show of hands and speak at the meeting.
As required by the development of the Company.
The Companys policy on Governance Code, the Annual Report is posted to Directors remuneration, together with details of the shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors General Meeting.
Remuneration Report on pages 34 and 35.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on The Notice of Meeting on pages 57 to 60 sets out the request, and on the Companys website.
business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages Directors Terms of Appointment 34 and 35 and the Directors Report on pages 22 to 26.
All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-election and the Companies Act Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
provisions and in accordance with the existing Articles of The Board is conscious that the Annual General Meeting is an Association.
The Articles of Association provide that event at which all shareholders are encouraged to attend and Directors retire and are subject to election at the first Annual participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to the General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect the must offer themselves for re-election at least once every Company.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put three years.
However, in order to meet the requirements questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The number of of section B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, proxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the Annual General all of the Directors of the Company will stand for annual Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show re-election.
30 Murray Income Trust PLC of hands, and details will be posted on the Companys control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the Company, which has been in place for the full year under free shareholder information telephone service run by the review and up to the date of approval of the Financial Manager and the Company, and the Manager responds to Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the letters from shareholders.
The Company's website, from Board and accords with the Financial Reporting Councils which the Companys reports and other publications can be FRC guidance document Internal Control: Revised downloaded, is www.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of Substantial Interests internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process At 30 June 2013, the following interests in the issued for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting Ordinary share capital of the Company have been disclosed the Company and the policies and procedures by which these in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing risks are managed.
Authority's Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The Directors have delegated the investment management of Number of the Companys assets to the Manager within overall Shareholder shares held % held guidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system Aberdeen Asset Managers 11,810,573 17.6 of internal control, including financial, operational and Limited Retail Plans compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control Speirs & Jeffrey 5,224,949 7.8 systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit Rathbone Brothers 4,044,171 6.0 function which undertakes periodic examination of business Brewin Dolphin 3,041,310 4.5 processes, including compliance with the terms of the management agreement, and ensures that recommendations Alliance Trust Savings 2,993,559 4.5 to improve controls are implemented.
AXA Framlington 2,112,867 3.2 Legal & General 2,096,677 3.1 Risks are identified and documented through a risk management framework by each function within the As at the date of approval of this Statement, no changes to Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the the above interests had been notified to the Company.
FRC guidance, and includes financial, regulatory, market, operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit Accountability and Audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and Financial Statements is on page 33 and the Statement of timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required 26.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 36. is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
Internal Control The key components designed to provide effective internal control for the year under review and up to the date of this The design, implementation and maintenance of controls and Annual Report are outlined below: procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts manage its affairs properly extends to operational and which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities compliance controls and risk management.
The Board has and review its investment performance: prepared its own risk register which identifies potential risks the Board and the Manager have agreed clearly-defined relating to strategy: investment management: shareholders: investment criteria, specified levels of authority and marketing: gearing: regulatory & financial obligations: third exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including party service providers and the Board.
The Board considers performance statistics and investment valuations, are the potential cause and possible impact of these risks as well regularly submitted to the Board.
The Managers evaluation as reviewing the controls in place to mitigate these potential procedure and financial analysis of the companies risks.
A risk is rated as having a likelihood and an impact concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: rating and the residual risk is plotted on a heat map which as a matter of course, the compliance department of is reviewed regularly.
Aberdeen continually reviews the Managers operations: The Board of Directors of Murray Income Trust PLC has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal Murray Income Trust PLC 31 Statement of Corporate Governance continued written agreements are in place which specifically define governance, proxy voting and shareholder engagement in the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third relation to the companies in which the Manager has invested party service providers: or is considering investing.
The Board has also reviewed the twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an Managers Disclosure Response to the UK Stewardship Code, assessment of internal controls by considering which appears on the Managers website, at the web-address documentation from the Manager, including its internal given above.
audit and compliance functions, and taking account of events since the relevant period end: The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, on a monthly basis the Board receives a detailed the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced compliance report.
by the portfolio companies and for attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly-documented from the Board, is empowered to use discretion in the contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities exercise of the Companys voting rights.
that have been delegated to external professional organisations.
The Board recognises and supports the Managers policy of active engagement with investee companies and the voting The Managers Head of Internal Audit reports six-monthly to of all of the shares held by the Company.
The Board receives the Audit Committee of the Company, and has direct access from the Manager regular reports on the exercise by the to the Directors at any time.
Manager of the Companys voting rights and discusses with the Manager any issues arising.
It is the Boards view that The internal control systems are designed to meet the having an active voting policy and a process for the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is monitoring by the Board of the Managers exercise of those exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are votes, especially in relation to controversial issues, aids the designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure efficient exercise of the Companys governance to achieve business goals and, by their nature, can provide responsibilities.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Directors are aware of their duty to act in the interests The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit of the Company.
As an investment trust, the Company has function, and has decided that the systems and procedures no direct social, environmental or community employed by the Manager, including its internal audit responsibilities.
However, the Directors acknowledge that function, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of there are risks associated with investment in companies internal control, which safeguards shareholders' investment which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit manner and the Directors, therefore, ensure that they take function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered regular account of the social, environment and ethical unnecessary.
factors, which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
Proxy Voting and Stewardship The FRC published the UK Stewardship Code for institutional shareholders on 2 July 2010.
The purpose of the By order of the Board UK Stewardship Code is to enhance the quality of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC th engagement between institutional investors and companies 7 Floor, 40 Princes Street to help improve long-term returns to shareholders and assist Edinburgh EH2 2BY institutional investors with the efficient exercise of their 11 September 2013 governance responsibilities.
The FRC is encouraging institutional investors to make a statement of their commitment to the Code.
The Board has delegated responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of portfolio companies to the Manager.
The Board has reviewed and accepts the Managers Corporate Governance Principles, which may be found on the Managers website, at http: www.
These Principles set out the Managers framework on corporate 32 Murray Income Trust PLC
