Statement of Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors This Statement of Corporate Governance forms part of the The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, all of Directors Report which is shown on pages 24 to 27. whom are considered to be independent of the Manager Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or the Manager and Introduction free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of The Company is committed to high standards of corporate strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and this statement Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 22 and 23 of describes how the Company applies the principles identified this report and indicate their range of high level industrial, in the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code which is commercial and professional experience, within an available on the Financial Reporting Councils website: international perspective.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the accounting period with the relevant The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and provisions contained within the UK Code.
ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are met.
During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Board met The Board has also considered the principles and eight times and there was a separate strategy meeting as recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance well as one Board Committee meeting excluding ad hoc AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance share allotment meetings.
The primary focus at regular Guide for investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, Board Meetings is a review of investment performance and as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set associated matters, including gearing, asset allocation, out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting marketing and investor relations, peer group information and out additional principles and recommendations on issues industry issues.
Between these meetings, the Board maintains that are of specific relevance to the Company.
regular contact with the Manager.
It has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it The Board considers that reporting against the principles and for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance compliance issues.
These matters include: Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk The Company has complied with the recommendations of management policies.
the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK the monitoring of the business activities of the Company Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
ranging from analysis of investment performance through to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions analysis.
relating to: Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the interim and annual financial statements and approval and the role of the chief executive recommendation of the interim and final dividends executive directors remuneration respectively.
the need for an internal audit function setting the level of gearing which the Manager may operate.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in Board appointments and removals and the related terms the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers subject to appropriate shareholder approval.
these provisions are not relevant to the position of the appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms Company, being an externally managed investment and conditions of the management and administration company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day agreements relating thereto.
management and administrative functions are outsourced to terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
As a result, the Company has no executive Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Conduct directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, has therefore not reported further in respect of these listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning provisions.
The AIC Code is available on the AICs website: matters decided by the Board.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
Mr Shedden is the senior independent non-executive Director.
Mr Shedden has indicated that he intends to retire 28 Murray International Trust PLC from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General the work of the Board and Committees.
In 2012, the Board Meeting on 29 April 2014 and from that point Lady Balfour employed the independent services of Law Debenture has agreed to become Senior Independent Director.
Governance Services Limited to carry out an external evaluation of the Boards and individual Directors There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take performance.
Law Debenture does not have any other independent professional advice, if necessary, at the relationships with the Company.
It is the Boards intention to Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice use an external consultant to assist in the Boards and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its performance evaluation at least every three years.
As part of appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: the Directors evaluation process the training needs of Directors, if any, were discussed and agreed.
for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with: under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good The Board and Nomination Committee have also reviewed information flows with the Board and its committees, as the Chairmans and Directors other commitments and are well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional satisfied that the Chairman and other Directors are capable development as required: and, of devoting sufficient time to the Company and contribute for advising through the Chairman on all corporate to the effective running of the Company.
The Chairman has governance matters.
been satisfactorily evaluated by his fellow Directors.
The Board is satisfied with its current balance, performance and When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is the contributions of its Directors during the year.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, External Agencies regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to including the Manager and other service providers, certain the Board as they arise.
services: the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the Directors have attended Board meetings and Committee assets, the registration services and the day to day meetings held during the year as shown below with their accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of eligibility to attend the relevant meeting in brackets : these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services Regular Nom.
Audit Other offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers regular monitoring reports K J Carter 8 8 1 1 n a 3 3 from the Manager in respect of the delegated service Lady Balfour of 8 8 1 1 3 3 3 3 providers.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are Burleigh supplied to the Board as requested.
J D Best 7 8 1 1 3 3 2 3 P W Dunscombe 8 8 1 1 3 3 3 3 Internal Control A C Shedden 8 8 1 1 3 3 2 3 The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the M Campbell 8 8 1 1 3 3 3 3 Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its Dr Carter is not a member of either the Audit Committee or the Remuneration effectiveness.
Following the Financial Reporting Council's Committee but attended all Committee meetings by invitation publication of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for excluding ad hoc share allotment meetings Directors on the Combined Code the FRC guidance, the Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for To enable the Board to function effectively and allow identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of full year under review and up to the date of approval of the Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of financial statements, and this process is regularly reviewed papers, including the Managers review and discussion by the Board and accords with the FRC Guidance.
Directors have made further enquiries where necessary.
The design, implementation and maintenance of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual manage its affairs properly extends to operational and performance evaluation, by means of general discussion, compliance controls and risk management.
The Board has questionnaire and individual interviews between the prepared its own risk register which identifies potential risks Chairman and the other Directors, to ensure that all Directors relating to strategy: investment management: shareholders: have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to Murray International Trust PLC 29 Statement of Corporate Governance continued marketing: gearing: regulatory and financial obligations: third written agreements are in place which specifically define party service providers and the Board.
The Board considers the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third the potential cause and possible impact of these risks as well party service providers and monitoring reports are received as reviewing the controls in place to mitigate these potential from these providers when required: risks.
A risk is rated by having a likelihood and an impact the Board has considered the need for an internal audit rating and the residual risk is plotted on a heat map and is function but, because of the compliance and internal reviewed regularly.
control systems in place at the Manager, has decided to place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of procedures: and internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by assessment of internal controls by considering the Company and the policies and procedures by which these documentation from the Manager, including its internal risks are managed.
audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since the relevant period end.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of the Companys assets to the Manager within overall In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented guidelines and this embraces implementation of the system contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities of internal control, including financial, operational and that have been delegated to external professional compliance controls and risk management.
systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit function which undertakes periodic examination of business The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six processes, including compliance with the terms of the monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has management agreement, and ensures that recommendations direct access to the Directors at any time.
to improve controls are implemented.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Risks are identified and documented through a risk Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is management framework by each function within the exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure FRC Guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market, to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to Committees systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required The composition of the Committees is shown below under is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
the headings of each Committee.
Terms of reference for each Committee are available on request and copies are also The key components designed to provide effective internal available on the Companys website.
control for the year under review and up to the date of this Report are outlined below: Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee has been established with written the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts terms of reference, copies of which are available upon which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities request from the Company Secretary, and also on the and review its investment performance: Company's website.
The Nomination Committee met once the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined during the year and comprises the following members, all of investment criteria: whom are independent from any relationship that would there are specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their Reports on these issues, including performance statistics responsibilities: and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Managers evaluation procedure and financial Dr K J Carter Chairman of the Committee analysis of the companies concerned include detailed Lady Balfour of Burleigh appraisal and due diligence: Mr J D Best as a matter of course the compliance department of Mr P W Dunscombe Aberdeen Asset Managers continually reviews the Ms M Campbell Managers operations: Mr A C Shedden 30 Murray International Trust PLC The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on The Directors have satisfied themselves that at least one of the following matters: the Committees members has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee met three times during the the identification and nomination of candidates to fill year and comprises the following members, all of whom are Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of independent and free from any relationship that would the Board.
The identification of such candidates is carried interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their out in conjunction with the Board by an independent firm responsibilities: of consultants: plans for succession: Mr A C Shedden Chairman until conclusion of AGM on 11 the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the April 2013 conclusion of their specified term of office: Ms M Campbell Chairman from conclusion of AGM on 11 the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the April 2013 retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles Lady Balfour of Burleigh of Association: Mr J D Best the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and Mr P W Dunscombe the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed position of Chairman, the recommendation for whom and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
The would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
work undertaken by the Audit Committee during the year under review, in accordance with those terms of reference The Boards overriding priority in appointing new Directors to included: the Board is to identify the candidate with the best range of skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk Board recognises the benefits of diversity in the composition management systems including review of non financial of the Board.
When Board positions become available as a risks and the Managers policy on information security result of retirement or resignation, the Company ensures that cyber risk on which the Company is reliant the Directors a diverse group of candidates is considered.
statement on the Companys internal controls and risk management is set out of pages 29 to 30 : The Committee met once during the year.
The Committee to consider whether there is a need for the Company to also considered the re-election of all the Directors with the have its own internal audit function: exception of Mr AC Shedden who is not standing for reto monitor the integrity of the half yearly and annual election.
The Committee concluded that the knowledge and financial statements of the Company by reviewing, and experience of each of the Directors is greatly valued by the challenging where necessary, the actions and judgements of Board and recommended their re-election at the forthcoming the Manager and Administrator: AGM.
to review, and report to the Board on, the significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in In accordance with Principle 3 of the AICs Code of Corporate connection with the preparation of the Companys financial Governance which recommends that the directors of FTSE statements, interim reports, announcements and related 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by formal statements: shareholders, all the members of the Board will retire at the to review the content of the Annual Report and financial forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, with the exception statements and make recommendations to the Board on of Mr Shedden, will offer themselves for re-election.
whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Mr Shedden has indicated that he intends to retire from the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Board at the forthcoming AGM and the Nomination business model and strategy: Committee has instigated a search for a new independent to meet with the auditor to review the proposed audit non executive Director using the independent services of programme of work and the findings of the auditor.
The Company has used the external search Directors shall also use this as an opportunity to assess the services of Fletcher Jones in the past but does not have any effectiveness of the audit process: other relationship with that company.
to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services.
Non-audit fees of Audit Committee 17,000 paid to the auditor during the year under review An Audit Committee has been established with written terms were for i agreed upon procedures in connection with the of reference, copies of which are available upon request from Half Yearly Report: ii taxation services: iii services in the Company Secretary and also on the Company's website.
connection with the electronic filing of tax returns: and iv Murray International Trust PLC 31 Statement of Corporate Governance continued services in connection with the calculation of B Ordinary Recognition of Investment Income share capitalisation ratios.
The Committee will review any How the issue was addressed - The recognition of investment future fees in the light of the requirement to maintain the income is undertaken in accordance with accounting policy auditors independence: note 1 b to the accounts on page 46.
Special dividends are to review a statement from the Manager detailing the allocated to the capital or revenue accounts according to the arrangements in place within AAM whereby AAM staff may, nature of the payment and the intention of the underlying in confidence, escalate concerns about possible company.
The Manager provides monthly internal control improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other reports to the Board.
The allocation of material special matters: dividends is also reviewed by the auditor.
to make recommendations in relation to the appointment of the auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms Compliance with Sections 1158 and 1159 of engagement of the auditor: and How the issue was addressed - Approval for the Company as to monitor and review the auditors independence, an investment trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 for objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2012 has been obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility Details of attendance at the Audit Committee meetings are criteria is monitored on a regular basis by the Manager and shown on page 29.
The Board receives a letter from Ernst & Young LLP, its Going Concern auditor, which notes that Ernst & Young has policies and How the issue was addressed - The Directors have considered procedures in place that instil professional values as part of the Companys investment objective and risk management its firms culture and ensure that the highest standards of policies, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash objectivity and independence and integrity are maintained.
As a result, they have determined that the Accordingly, the Board confirms its belief that Ernst & Young Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial is independent in accordance with the Governance Code.
structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Significant Issues Review of Auditor During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the considered the following significant issues: auditor including: Valuation, Existence and Ownership of Investments independence the Audit Committee discusses with the How the issue was addressed - The valuation of investments is auditor, at least annually, the steps the auditor takes to undertaken in accordance with the accounting policies, ensure its independence and objectivity and the auditor disclosed in notes 1 a and 1 c to the accounts on page 46. makes the Committee aware of any potential issues, All investments are considered liquid and quoted in active explaining all relevant safeguards.
markets and have been categorised as Level 1 within the FRS quality of audit work including the ability to resolve issues 29 fair value hierarchy and can be verified against daily in a timely manner identified issues are satisfactorily and market prices.
The portfolio is reviewed and verified by the promptly resolved, its communications presentation of Manager on a regular basis and management accounts outputs the explanation of the audit plan, any deviations including a full portfolio listing are prepared each month and from it and the subsequent audit findings are circulated to the Board.
The portfolio is also reviewed comprehensive and comprehensible, and working annually by the Auditor.
The Company uses the services of relationship with management the auditor has a an independent Custodian JP Morgan Chase Bank to hold constructive working relationship with the Manager the assets of the Company.
The investment portfolio is quality of people and service including continuity and reconciled regularly by the Manager and a reconciliation is succession plans the audit team is made up of sufficient, also reviewed by the Auditor.
suitably experienced staff with provision made for knowledge of the investment trust sector and retention on Correct Calculation of Management and Performance Fees rotation of the partner How the issue was addressed - The management and performance fees are calculated by the Manager and Ernst & Young LLP has held office as auditor since the reviewed periodically by the Board.
The auditor reperforms Companys launch in 1907: in accordance with professional the calculations as part of its audit.
guidelines the audit partner is rotated after at most five years, and the current audit partner has served for five years.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each AGM to vote on 32 Murray International Trust PLC the reappointment of the auditor for the forthcoming year.
The UK Code recommends that all the members of the The Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys Committee should be independent.
The remuneration of the auditor, to be independent of the Company and therefore Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a supports the recommendation to the Board that the recalibre appropriate to the future development of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP be put to shareholders for Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, approval at the AGM.
together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 During the year the Audit Committee conducted a tender for to 38. audit services.
The Companys policy is to conduct a regular review of its audit arrangements and the last tender had Directors Terms of Appointment taken place in 2004.
Following a detailed and rigorous All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term process involving large and medium-sized audit firms which of three years, subject to annual re-election and Companies culminated in presentations from the shortlisted firms, the Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, has Association, stand for election at the first Annual General resolved to recommend to shareholders the reappointment Meeting following their appointment.
Although the Articles of Ernst & Young LLP at the forthcoming Annual General of Association state that Directors must offer themselves for Meeting.
re-election at least once every three years, in accordance with corporate governance best practice, each Director Management Engagement Committee submits for annual re-election.
Any Director who seeks reAs recommended by the AIC Code, a Management election beyond six years will be subject to particularly Engagement Committee has been established with written rigorous review to ensure that their performance continues terms of reference, copies of which are available upon to be effective.
request from the Company Secretary and on the Company's website.
The Management Engagement Committee met Policy on Tenure once during the year and comprises the following members, The Board has assessed the independence of the Directors all of whom are independent and free from any relationship against the criteria set out in the Codes, and has concluded that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out that they are all independent of the Manager and free of any their responsibilities: relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board takes the Dr K J Carter Chairman of the Committee view that independence is not compromised by length of Lady Balfour of Burleigh tenure on the Board and that experience can add Mr J D Best significantly to the Boards strength.
In the case of Mr Mr P W Dunscombe Shedden and Lady Balfour who have been Directors since Ms M Campbell 2000 and 2003 respectively, the Board takes the view that Mr A C Shedden their independence has not been compromised by their length of service and that experience as well as a long-term The Committee meets annually in order to review matters perspective can add significant value to a well-balanced concerning the management agreement which exists with investment trust company board comprising of nonAberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Details of the executive directors.
In considering their independence, the management agreement are shown on page 24 and 25 of the Directors considered a number of factors including their Annual Report.
There was one meeting of the Committee experience, integrity and judgement of character.
The during the year which was attended by all the Committee Directors also recognised that the Directors have no members.
connection with the Manager, are not professional advisers who have provided services to the Manager or the Board, do Remuneration Committee not serve on any other board of a company managed by the The Company has appointed a Remuneration Committee, Manager or serve as directors on companies with any of the comprising the following members, which met once during other Companys directors.
For these reasons the Board the year: excluding the individual Directors believes the Directors remain independent notwithstanding their length of service.
Lady Balfour of Burleigh Chairman of the Committee Mr J D Best Communication with Shareholders Mr P W Dunscombe Ms M Campbell The Company places great importance on communication Mr A C Shedden with its shareholders.
The Manager has an annual programme Murray International Trust PLC 33 Statement of Corporate Governance continued of meetings with institutional shareholders and reports back Number of % of to the Board on these meetings.
Ordinary shares Ordinary Name of shareholder held shares held The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures Brewin Dolphin Stockbrokers 10,236,643 8.2 that, when its shares are held in the name of nominee Aberdeen Investment Trust 9,166,281 7.3 A companies and notification has been received in advance, Savings Plans nominee companies will be provided with copies of Speirs & Jeffrey Stockbrokers 8,798,607 7.0 shareholder communications for distribution to their Rathbones 6,458,336 5.2 customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings Investec Wealth & Investment 5,767,670 4.6 and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
A Alliance Trust Savings 4,531,755 3.6 A Non-beneficial interests Participants in the Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the plan administrator, are given the Number of B % of B opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Direction Ordinary Ordinary enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Direction is shares held shares held forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will Speirs & Jeffrey 244,223 26.1 complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
There have been no significant changes notified in respect of Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting the above holdings between 31 December 2013 and 10 are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the March 2014.
As required under the Code, the Annual Report is posted to shareholders at least twenty business days before Share Capital the Annual General Meeting.
The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2013 amounted to 125,126,207 Ordinary and 935,633 B Ordinary The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting shares.
Details of the changes in share capital during the year and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors are provided in note 14 to the financial statements.
Separate resolutions are February 2014 the issued B Ordinary share capital increased proposed for each issue.
to 944,489 B Ordinary shares following the capitalisation issue of 8,856 B Ordinary shares in lieu of the third interim The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting dividend.
Between 31 December 2013 and the date of this is an event for all shareholders and encourages them to report, 110,000 new Ordinary shares were issued for cash at attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to a premium to the prevailing net asset value.
the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect the Company.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put Proxy Voting and Stewardship questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The number of proxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the The Financial Reporting Council FRC published the UK Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt Stewardship Code for Institutional shareholders on 2 July with on a show of hands.
The purpose of the Code is to enhance the quality of engagement between institutional investors and companies Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the to help improve long-term returns to shareholders and the free shareholder information telephone service run by the efficient exercise of governance responsibilities.
Manager, and the Company and the Manager respond to letters from shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with The FRC is encouraging institutional investors to make a major shareholders and reports back to the Board on these statement of their commitment to the Code.
A website from which the Companys reports and delegated responsibility for actively monitoring the activities other publications can be downloaded is maintained on of portfolio companies to the Manager.
responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced by the Substantial Interests portfolio company, and for attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the At 31 December 2013 the following were registered or had Board, is empowered to use discretion in the exercise of the notified the Company as being interested in 3% or more of Companys voting rights.
The Managers policy is to vote all the Company's Ordinary share capital: shares held by the Company.
34 Murray International Trust PLC The Board has reviewed, and endorses, the Managers the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the Corporate Governance Principles, which may be found on the development and performance of the business and the Managers website, at: http: www.
aberdeenposition of the Company together with a description of the asset.
nsf Lit  principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
This sets out the Managers framework on corporate Kevin Carter governance, proxy voting and shareholder engagement in Chairman relation to the companies in which the Manager has invested 10 March 2014 or is considering investing.
The Board has also reviewed the Managers Statement of Compliance with the Code, which appears on the Managers website, at: http: www.
nsf AboutUs  The Board receives from the Manager regular reports on the exercise by the Manager of the Companys voting rights.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
The Directors, through the Companys Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in this area.
The Company's ultimate objective however is to deliver superior investment returns for its shareholders.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which pursue best practice in the above areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
Declaration The Directors listed on page 24, being the persons responsible, hereby confirm to the best of their knowledge: that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: that in the opinion of the Directors, the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and it provides the information necessary to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In reaching this conclusion the Board has assumed that the reader of the Annual Report and Accounts would have a reasonable level of general investment knowledge, and in particular, of investment trusts: and Murray International Trust PLC 35
