FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee Membership: Richard Battey - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Sandra Platts Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director The Board believes it is appropriate for the Company Chairman to be a member of the Audit Committee as he is an independent non-executive Director.
Key Objectives The provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Companys financial reporting including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of the external auditors, and the management of the Companys systems of internal financial and operating controls and business risks.
Responsibilities Reviewing the Companys financial results announcements, financial statements and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and listing requirements: Reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and practices including critical accounting policies and practices: Advising the Board on whether the Audit Committee believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors: Considering the financial and other implications on the independence of the auditors arising from any non-audit services to be provided by the auditors: To analyse the key procedures adopted by the Company's Service Providers: and Compile a report on its activities to be included in the Companys annual report.
The Committee members have a wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties.
The Chairman of the Committee is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, and has recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the AIC Code, the Board has therefore designated him as its financial expert on the Committee.
26 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee continued Committee Meetings The Committee meets at least three times a year.
Only members of the Audit Committee have the right to attend Audit Committee meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager and Administrator will be invited to attend Audit Committee meetings on a regular basis and other non-members may be invited to attend all or part of the meeting as and when appropriate and necessary.
The Companys external auditors,  CI LLP PwC is also invited to each meeting.
The Committee also meets separately with PwC without the Investment Manager being present.
Main Activities during the Year The Committee assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the assessment of internal financial and operating controls.
It also manages the Companys relationship with the external auditors.
Meetings of the Committee generally take place prior to a Company Board meeting.
The Committee reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their work.
Following the publication of the revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code and AIC Code, which apply to financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the Board requested that the Committee advise them on whether it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committees terms of reference have been amended to reflect this and can be found on the Companys website www.
At its three meetings during the year, the Committee focused on: Financial Reporting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review with the Investment Manager, Administrator and PwC the appropriateness of the half-year and annual financial statements concentrating on, amongst other matters: The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or there has been discussion with the external auditors: Whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: and Any correspondence from regulators in relation to the quality of our financial reporting.
To aid its review, the Committee considers reports from the Investment Manager, Administrator and also reports from the external auditors on the outcomes of their half-year review and annual audit.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2013 27 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee continued Significant Issues In relation to the annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, the following significant issues were considered by the Audit Committee: Significant Issue How the Issue was Addressed 1.
The valuation and existence of the The Committee analysed the Investment portfolio of the Company in terms of Companys investments.
investment mix, fair value hierarchy and valuation.
The Committee has also considered the auditors approach to their audit of the valuation and existence assertion in respect of the Companys investments.
The Committee discussed in depth with PwC, with regards to their approach to testing the appropriateness and robustness of the valuation methodology applied by the Investment Manager to the Companys portfolio.
The members of the Committee had meetings with PwC, where the audit findings were reported.
PwC did not report any differences between the valuations used by the Company or custodian confirmation of holdings and the work performed during their testing process.
Based on the above review and analysis the Committee confirmed that they were satisfied with the valuation and existence of the investments.
Presumed risk of fraud in revenue The Committee considered the presumed risks of fraud as defined by auditing recognition and management override of standards and was content that there were no issues arising.
No instances of fraud controls.
were reported to the Committee by the Companys service providers.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the UK Code of Corporate Governance.
The Committee is responsible overall for the Companys system of internal financial and operating controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee, receives reports from the Investment Manager on the Companys risk evaluation process and reviews changes to significant risks identified.
The Board has undertaken a full review of the Companys business risks, which have been analysed and recorded in a risk report, which is reviewed and updated regularly.
The Board receives each quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk including those that are not directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager and which reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board receives each year a report from the Administrator on its internal controls which includes a report from the Administrators auditors on the control policies and procedures in operation.
The Investment Manager has established an internal control framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk department on an ongoing basis.
The Investment Managers controls processes have also been outlined to the Board.
The Boards assessment of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties, is set out on pages 8 to 9.
By means of the procedures set out above, the Committee confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal financial and operating controls for the year ended 31 December 2013 and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and that no issues have been noted.
28 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee continued External Audit The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
The Committee received a detailed audit plan from PwC identifying their assessment of these significant audit risks.
For the 2013 financial year the significant audit risk identified was in relation to management override of controls.
This significant risk was tracked through the year and the Committee challenged the work performed by the auditors to test management override of controls and in addition the audit work undertaken in respect of investment income and valuation of investments.
The Committee assess the effectiveness of the audit process in addressing these matters through the reporting received from PwC at both the half-year and year-end.
In addition, the Committee seeks feedback from the Investment Manager and the Administrator on the effectiveness of the audit process.
For the 2013 financial year, the Committee was satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the significant and other key areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
The Committee held private meetings with PwC, including the audit partner between Committee meetings to provide an additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and PwC without the Investment Manager being present.
Appointment and Independence The Committee considers the reappointment of PwC, including the rotation of the audit partner, and assesses their independence on an annual basis.
PwC is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the audit every five years.
The current audit partner has been in place for one year.
PwC has been the Companys external auditors since its stock exchange listing in 2011 3 years.
Due to the Companys incorporation in Guernsey, it is not obliged to comply with proposed developments in the UK and the EU on audit tendering.
The Committee does however keep under review the ongoing legislative proposals on audit tendering and rotation from the EU and the Competition Commission in the UK.
The comply or explain provision on audit tendering would have applied to the Company for the first time this year but has effectively now been superseded by recent developments and the Committee now notes the FRC plans to withdraw the provision during 2014.
The Committee will continue to consider annually the need to go to tender for audit quality or independence reasons and will be guided by any final changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code which remains the definitive guidance to follow as a Guernsey incorporated company.
Subject to the outcome of this process continuing to be satisfactory, it is currently expected that PwC will remain in office and a resolution to reappoint them for the 2014 audit will therefore be proposed at the AGM.
In its assessment of the independence of the external auditors, the Committee receives details of any relationships between the Company and PwC that may have a bearing on their independence and receives confirmation that the external auditors are independent of the Company.
The Committee approved the fees for audit services for 2013 after a review of the level and nature of work to be performed, and after being satisfied by PwC that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
Non Audit Services To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors from becoming compromised, the Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditors to provide non-audit services.
No material changes have been made to this policy during the year.
The external auditors and the Directors have agreed that all non-audit services require the pre-approval of the Committee prior to commencing any work.
Fees for non-audit services are tabled annually so that the Committee can consider the impact on external auditors objectivity.
The external auditors were remunerated 117,555 for their services rendered in 2013.
Of this amount, 85,055 was in relation to the year-end audit and 26,500 was in relation to the procedures performed in respect to the half-year review.
An amount of 6,000 was in relation to the non-audit services performed over the C share conversion.
In addition, a further 70,000 was paid to the external auditors when acting in the role of reporting accountant on both C Shares issues in March and October 2013.
This amount was included in the issue costs of the respective C Shares.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2013 29 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee continued Non Audit Services continued The Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided by PwC, and is satisfied with their independence.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed as external auditors for the year ending 31 December 2014, and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
The auditors, PwC, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the reappointment of PwC as our external auditors will be put to the shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors and we do not indemnify our external auditors.
Committee Evaluation The Committees activities formed part of the Board evaluation performed in the year.
Details of this process can be found under Performance evaluation on page 20.
Richard Battey On behalf of the Audit Committee 14 April 2014 30 NEUBERGER BERMAN
