CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Applicable Corporate Governance Codes The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, both published in February 2013.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, published in September 2012, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The 2013 AIC Code came into effect for financial years ending on or after 30 September 2013.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
Copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found at www.
co. uk On 1 January 2012, the Guernsey Financial Services Commissions GFSC Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance came into effect.
The GFSC have stated in their Code that companies which report against the UK Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code are deemed to meet their Code, and need take no further action.
Corporate Governance Statement Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code of Corporate Governance, except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: The role of the chief executive Executive Directors remuneration Internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Directors believe that this report and financial statements presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Company complies with the corporate governance statement requirements pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules by virtue of the information included in the Corporate Governance section of the annual report together with information contained in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2013 15
