Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Statement I am proud of Cairns many achievements during my tenure as founder, Chief Dear Shareholder Executive and subsequently non-executive Chairman of the Company.
After 25 years on the Board, I am pleased to be leaving in the knowledge that the Board Maintaining and promoting high standards and the Company will remain in highly capable hands with Ian as Chairman and Simon at the helm as Chief Executive.
Under this leadership, shareholders and of corporate governance is central to my other stakeholders can be confident that governance will continue to be a high role as Chairman and I firmly believe that priority for the Board.
this is an essential prerequisite to delivering Dr James Buckee will also retire in May 2014 and as such will not seek re-election sustainable business performance.
At Cairn, at the Companys AGM on 15 May 2014.
Dr Buckee has served as a non-executive director on the Cairn Board for five years I would like to take this opportunity to to deliver our strategy, our mandate is thank him for his valuable contribution to the Board during this time.
to operate with integrity at all times, I recognise that, in last years annual report, we stated that Todd Hunt would retire recognising that in doing so the Company from the Board within the next 12 months.
However, in light of my retirement and will maintain the trust of investors, that of Dr Buckee at the AGM, Todd has agreed to offer himself for re-election as a non-executive director to allow the Board to retain his valuable technical skills governments, local communities, and extensive knowledge of the business.
As Todd has served on the Board JV partners and other stakeholders.
for more than nine years he will, however, no longer be considered to be an independent non-executive director.
The Board intends to appoint a new The Cairn Board is committed to promoting high standards non-executive director with relevant technical skills and experience during 2014. of corporate governance and understands that an effective, challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable the Company Following these changes, the composition of the Board will continue to comply to deliver its strategy and shareholders long-term interests, whilst with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code other than in respect also generating investor confidence that the business is conducting of Mr Hunts independence.
Further information on our strategy, business model and approach to operating responsibly can be found Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in the Strategic Review section of this Annual Report and in our As a company incorporated in the UK with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Corporate Responsibility Report.
Exchange, we are required to report against the UK Corporate Governance Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website at As announced on 3 March 2014, I will be retiring as non-executive www.
Cairn is fully committed to achieving compliance with the Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the Companys AGM principles and provisions set out in the Code.
on 15 May 2014 and I am delighted that Ian Tyler will succeed me in this role.
Ian was appointed as a non-executive director in June The Board continually reviews the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 2013 at which time the Board recognised his very extensive listed Code and has amended or enhanced the Companys governance framework to company governance experience both as a chairman and nonensure that the Company complies with the Code otherwise than as detailed in executive director.
The Board has therefore agreed that Ians this statement.
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the qualifications and experience make him ideal for the role of principles in sections A to E of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year non-executive Chairman following my retirement.
This statement reports compliance with the current version of the Code published in September 2012.
Executives Non-Executives Executives 3 Non-Executives 7 Female 2 Male 8 Directors that are UK International UK 6 Sir Bill Gammell Internationals 4 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Corporate Governance Statement Continued The Board Senior Independent Director Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and Iain McLaren continues to be Cairns senior independent non-executive director.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and The main responsibilities of the senior independent non-executive director are balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the industry sector as follows: and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial, to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary operational and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether with other directors when necessary: executive or non-executive, objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through ability and diversity, assist the Board in its key functions, and are prerequisites for the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive appointment.
This also applies to appointments to senior management positions directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate: and below Board level and to our succession planning.
to meet with the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present, at least annually, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive directors the Chief Executive, the Deputy Chief Executive, and the Managing Director Re-election of Directors & CFO and six independent non-executive directors.
The current directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Companys biographies are on pages 62 and 63.
Following the Board changes explained directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
As such, each of the above, the Board will comprise the Chairman, three executive directors and directors with the exception of Sir Bill Gammell and Dr James Buckee will seek four non-executive directors.
re-election at the AGM to be held on 15 May 2014.
Full biographical details of the current directors can be found in the Board of Directors section on pages The Company considers periodic refreshment of the Board to be positive as it 62 and 63. brings new thinking to the Company as well as ensuring that the Boards collective experiences equip it to meet its business needs as they evolve over time as well as Performance Evaluation its strategy for offering material growth within a balanced sustainable portfolio.
The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises that the The Board is also mindful that an appropriate balance between directors who performance evaluation process represents an annual opportunity to enhance can bring a new perspective and those who provide continuity is essential for overall Board effectiveness.
In 2012, the Company conducted an externally a business like Cairns.
facilitated Board evaluation for the first time and fully explained the process and outcomes for this in last years Annual Report.
Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed not only on gender but also on nationality and experience.
The Board currently demonstrates The 2012 evaluation resulted in some important recommendations for improving balance across all these elements with 20% female representation one executive the Boards effectiveness and the table below sets out our progress in seeking to director and one non-executive director and directors from the Netherlands, the implement those recommendations.
USA and Canada, as well as the UK, adding international experience to the Board.
The Board members diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only Key actions Progress a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise.
Further information on diversity within Cairn is included in the report of the Board composition: the main Ian Tyler appointed as new Nomination Committee on page 73 and in the Strategic Review section of this priority should be to appoint independent non-executive Annual Report.
up to two new non-executive director in June 2013 and directors.
as a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Division of Responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive The Company has a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Clearer role of the Chairman: Sir Bill Gammell significantly it was recommended that the increased his focus on these The Chairmans responsibilities include: role of the Chairman should areas throughout 2013.
In the leadership and effective running of the Board: have increased focus on Board addition, he held meetings ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the determination leadership, governance and with investors in relation and development of the Groups strategy: effectiveness.
It was also decided to corporate governance that the Corporate Governance matters.
acting as guardian and facilitator of the Boards decision-making process: and Nomination Committee ensuring effective implementation of the Boards decisions: and should be split and that the ensuring open communications with shareholders and in particular, The Corporate Governance Chairman should assume the understanding their issues and concerns with regard to governance.
and Nomination Committee role of chair of the Nomination was split into two separate Committee.
committees in March 2013, The Chief Executives responsibilities include: at which time the Chairman managing the Groups business and proposing and developing the Companys also became chair of the strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board: Nomination Committee.
leading the Executive Team in implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees: ensuring the successful and efficient achievement of the Companys KPIs and objectives: and  Immediately following each providing coherent leadership of the Company in representing the Company meetings: it was recommended scheduled Board meeting to its stakeholders including shareholders, financial institutions, employees, that the Chairman should hold throughout the year, the more regular meetings with the Chairman meets with the governments, the media, the wider community and the general public.
non-executive directors without non-executives only.
68 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Statement Continued This year, in view of the 2012 evaluation and given the changes to the Board The executive directors also have their performance individually reviewed by during the review period, it was agreed that an internal rather than external the remuneration committee against KPIs and objectives which are set annually.
board performance evaluation would be most beneficial to the Company.
Further details of the KPIs can be found in the KPI section on pages 26 to 29.
The Chairman and Company Secretary discussed how best to facilitate The bonuses payable to the executive directors under the Companys cash this and undertook a review of products from external providers suitable for bonus scheme described further in the Directors Remuneration Report on internal board performance evaluations.
Following an online demonstration to pages 81 to 98 are linked directly to the results of these reviews.
the Chairman and Company Secretary, Independent Audits Thinking Board software package was recommended and subsequently selected.
Independent Independence of Non-Executive Directors Audit has no other connection with the Company.
The Board evaluation and review process covered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account their integrity, their objectivity and The Governance Committee discussed and approved the use of this software their contribution to the Board and its committees.
The Board is of the view that at its meeting in October 2013 and thereafter specific online questionnaires the following behaviours are essential for a director to be considered independent: were developed and were then completed by all Board members to evaluate the provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the assumptions, performance of the Board, each of its committees and the Chairman.
This year, beliefs and views of senior management and the other directors: members of the senior management team were also invited to complete an online questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously questionnaire focusing on Board performance.
Following completion of the and dispassionately: various questionnaires, the Chairman held a series of one-to-one meetings with acts at all times in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders: each of the directors in December 2013 in order to discuss the answers to the has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Companys business and of questionnaires.
The Chairmans own appraisal was conducted by the Senior the market as a whole which provides a solid background in which they can Independent Director who did this through a series of one-to-one meetings consider the Companys strategy objectively and help the executive directors with the other directors before meeting with the Chairman to present feedback.
develop proposals on strategy: and has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, either directly The findings of the internal evaluation were then discussed with the Board in or indirectly.
December 2013 and a number of action points agreed, including the following: Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors excluding the Chairman against these criteria, the Board concluded that all Key actions Progress non-executive directors excluding the Chairman demonstrated each of the required competencies to a high level and are, therefore, each considered independent.
The Company does however recognise that in view of the Board composition: it was agreed The Board and Nomination Committee have been characteristics of independence set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, that the composition of the Board should be revisited following actively considering Board including if a director has served on the Board for more than nine years, that Todd the appointment retiral of composition throughout 2013 Hunt will no longer be considered to be an independent non-executive director.
This matter is ongoing in view of the Board Induction and Development changes which will take effect New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members in particular the Chairman, senior management and the Companys principal advisers.
In addition, any new director is provided with a comprehensive induction pack which contains a wide range of materials shown in more detail in the table on page 70.
Board dynamics: it was identified The Chairman provided that dynamics between executive feedback to the whole Board and non-executive directors on specific examples of this The Company also provides on an ongoing basis the necessary resources for had on occasion been more and clarified the approach developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the complex than was necessary.
to be taken by all directors Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional development going forward.
In 2013 the Company continued with its practice of providing a Directors Education Programme consisting of a number of seminars for Board members, which are presented by the Companys external advisers guest speakers members of senior management, on subjects appropriate to the Strategy setting: it was identified The Chairman provided Companys business, including changes to legislation, regulation and market that senior management feedback to the whole Board practice.
During 2013 the subjects covered by these seminars included: members beneath Board level on specific examples of this involved in strategy setting may and it was agreed that a better tertiary well control management: in certain instances require balance could be struck Cairn and the Scottish independence referendum: more support from the Board.
between challenge and Spanish assets and doing business in Spain: approval of forward strategy.
anti bribery and corruption update: revised directors remuneration reporting regulations and changes in narrative reporting regulations: and group insurances including directors and officers liability cover.
These seminars are held prior to Board meetings and are attended by all directors present at such meetings the Company keeps a record of attendance.
Following the internal performance evaluation process conducted in 2013, the This process was reviewed during 2013 and the Board approved the proposed Board and the Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively Directors Education Programme for 2014 at its meeting in October 2013.
Any and that each Director has performed well in respect of their individual roles on director may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
As explained above, some improvements have been identified and all media articles relating to the Company and all brokers and analysts reports have already been or will be addressed during 2014.
Following the results of the on the Company are distributed to all directors.
individual performance evaluations, the Board believes that all of the directors performances continue to be effective and that they each demonstrate commitment to their role.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Corporate Governance Statement Continued Information and Support New directors induction The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to perform its duties.
The Company Secretary ensures the presentation of Board Directors and Company Secretarys contact high quality information to the Board and its committees and that all papers details: list of Board and committee members and information are delivered in a timely fashion.
Board and committee papers and dates of appointment: schedule of are delivered securely through an electronic platform.
matters reserved to the Board: financial delegations of authority: Board papers and The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary are responsible for minutes of previous meetings: schedule of advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters dates for Board and committee meetings: and each director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary current directors education programme.
There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Committees Terms of reference for all Board committees.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
Risk Terms of reference for Risk Management Committee and minutes of last meeting: Conflicts of Interest current Group Risk Matrix.
The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
All directors are aware of the requirement to submit details to the Company Secretary or Deputy Key policies Group Corporate Responsibility Business Company Secretary of any current situations appointments or otherwise which Principles: Group Code of Business Ethics: may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest.
Notifications have Anti Bribery and Corruption ABC been received from all of the current directors and there are no conflict matters Management System: ABC Business Partner which require to be authorised.
The Board will continue to monitor and review Due Diligence Procedure: Dealing Rules and potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Model Code: Procedures, Systems and Controls for Compliance with the Listing Matters Reserved to the Board and Delegation of Authority Rules and Disclosure Rules.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy of the Organisation Group Structure Chart, current Annual Company and approval of the annual report and accounts, the Companys annual Report and Accounts, and Corporate budget and amendments to that budget over a particular amount, borrowing and Responsibility Summary Report.
security, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure over a specified amount, amendments to the organisational structure of the Company and Board, approval of significant changes to accounting policies and approval of management Governance UK Corporate Governance Code: FRC incentive schemes and Company policy on pensions.
Guidance on Board Effectiveness and Audit Committees: ICSA Guidance on By way of example, some of the matters which the Board considered and Liability of Non-Executive Directors: approved during 2013 were: and GC100 Directors Remuneration the Companys five-year business plan and annual budget: Reporting Guidance.
the frontier exploration drilling programme in North West Africa and West of Ireland and the contracting of two rigs for this: the Field Development Plan for the Kraken Field in the UK North Sea: Legal regulatory Memorandum for directors on their responsibilities and obligations as directors.
the initial farm-in to and subsequent farm-out of part interests in three blocks in Senegal: the farm-in to block C19 offshore Mauritania: the divestment of Cairns interest in the Mariner Field and surrounding Insurance Full details of Directors and Officers Liability cover.
acreage in the UK North Sea: and the share buy-back programme to repurchase up to US$300m of ordinary shares in the Company.
During 2013, the Board comprehensively reviewed and approved revised financial delegations of authority to ensure clarity throughout the business concerning the distinction between financial matters which require Board approval and those that can be delegated to senior management.
The Management Team and the Corporate Team continue to support the Board and Executive Team in the day-to-day operational management of the Company.
The Management Team comprises nine members of the senior management team and is chaired by the Chief Operating Officer.
The role of the Management Team continues to be to lead the delivery of the Companys strategic objectives, including creating and updating the business plan to be recommended to the Board and ensuring that all work programmes are executed, managed and reported while mitigating and managing any operational and business risks.
70 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Statement Continued Board and Committee Structure Cairn Energy PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Risk Management Committee The Management Team meets formally on a regular basis with a fixed schedule Directors Attendance at Board of dates which are normally close to the timing of Board meetings.
and Board Committee Meetings The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled The Corporate Team comprises four members of the senior management team Board and Board committee meetings during 2013: and is responsible for enabling and maintaining the Companys access to the Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance capital markets in line with the Companys strategic objectives and is charged with Board Committee Committee Committee Committee promoting and protecting the Companys reputation as a well run organisation Meetings held during 2013 6 5 6 5 4 focused on delivering value through a sustainable business.
The Corporate Team meets regularly to discuss specific projects.
In 2013 and 2014 to date, the Corporate Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended attended Team has focused on the following key areas: statutory reporting: adherence to governance procedures: implementation of new remuneration reporting Executive Directors requirements: new ventures and stakeholder management: access to capital: Simon Thomson business and CR management systems: and effectiveness of internal control.
3 Chief Executive 6 n a n a 5 n a Dr Mike Watts During 2013, the Management Team and Corporate Team undertook joint Deputy Chief Executive 5 n a n a n a n a quarterly performance reviews to review their progress and to plan ahead on key events, projects and risks.
The Executive Team, the Management Team Jann Brown and the Corporate Team have regular joint meetings focusing solely on risk.
4 Managing Director & CFO 6 n a n a n a 4 The HSE Leadership Team, which is chaired by the Managing Director & CFO Non-Executive Directors and comprises key managers across the business, has continued its work in 2013 5 Sir Bill Gammell Chaiman 6 n a n a 5 4 with the aim of providing leadership on health, safety and environmental issues and driving initiatives to maintain standards and to focus on HSE performance.
Iain McLaren SID 6 5 6 4 n a During 2013, this included providing externally facilitated training to all staff on Todd Hunt 6 n a 5 3 2 the Companys HSE Culture Framework further information in relation to this Dr James Buckee 5 5 6 n a n a can be found in the Operating Responsibly section of this Annual Report.
Alexander Berger 6 4 n a 5 4 Board Meetings Jackie Sheppard 6 n a 6 n a 4 During 2013, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, with all but one 6 Ian Tyler 3 3 2 n a n a of these meetings taking place over two consecutive days.
The majority of the Board meetings were held at the Companys registered office in Edinburgh with one meeting held at the Companys office in Madrid.
Details of attendance at Notes: n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
each of those Board meetings, and at meetings of each of the Board committees, 1 During 2013, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the Audit are set out in the table opposite.
Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and Governance Committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
2 Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees, they reviewed Given the level of portfolio management and operational activity undertaken by the relevant papers for the meetings and provided their comments to the Board or the Board the Company during the year, a number of other meetings took place to deal with committees in advance of such meetings.
3 Simon Thomson is not a member of the Remuneration Committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
specific matters that required to be considered at short notice.
When a specific 4 Jann Brown is not a member of the Audit Committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
matter requires consideration at short notice, there is a procedure that sets out 5 Sir Bill Gammell is not a member of the Remuneration Committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
when those matters must be considered at a short-notice Board meeting and 6 Ian Tyler was appointed a member of the Board and of the Audit and Remuneration committees on when they may be dealt with by a committee of the Board.
The number of meetings he attended is stated from that date.
Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings Board Committees is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee, by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone conferencing facilities are used a Nomination Committee and a Governance Committee, each of which has when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly includes The terms of reference for each of the Board committees satisfy the requirements presentations from senior operational management, is set by the Chairman in of the UK Corporate Governance Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Formal basis by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available on the minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior Companys website.
to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the members of the Board are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The non-executive directors meet after every Board meeting, without any executives present, to discuss matters in respect of the business.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Corporate Governance Statement Continued The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to During 2013, the Remuneration Committee also undertook a detailed early undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary acts as review and gap analysis of its reporting in the context of the new Directors secretary to all Board committees with the exception of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Reporting Regulations.
where the Deputy Company Secretary undertakes this role.
The minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Full details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on Set out below are reports from each of the Board Committees.
This year, in line pages 81 to 98, which has been prepared in accordance with the new Regulations.
with the latest regulatory guidance, the Audit Committee Report is presented as a separate report on pages 78 to 80 rather than including this in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Nomination Committee Report As disclosed in last years corporate Remuneration Committee Report governance statement, it was agreed at The Remuneration Committee currently the March 2013 Board meeting that the comprises five non-executive directors, then existing Corporate Governance and all of whom were considered by the Board Nomination Committee CGN should to be independent throughout the year be split into two separate committees ending 31 December 2013. the Nomination Committee and the Governance Committee, with the The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were as follows: Nomination Committee to be chaired Jackie Sheppard chair : by Sir Bill Gammell and the Governance Dr James Buckee: Todd Hunt: Committee to be chaired by Jackie Iain McLaren: and Sheppard.
The membership of both Ian Tyler appointed a member of the committee on 28 June 2013. committees was refreshed at that time.
The members of the Nomination Committee during the year were as follows: Sir Bill Gammell chair with effect from 13 March 2013 : Iain McLaren: Todd Hunt: Alexander Berger: Jackie Sheppard stepped down as chair and member of CGN with effect from 13 March 2013 : Simon Thomson member with effect from 13 March 2013 : and Jackie Sheppard Jann Brown stepped down as a member with effect from 13 March 2013.
The Remuneration Committee met six times during 2013.
The Chairman and Chief Executive of the Company are not members of the committee but attend its meetings by invitation.
Certain other executive directors attended meetings of the committee as observers on being invited to do so by the committee.
The Companys remuneration advisers, New Bridge Street, also attended some of the committees meetings.
None of the members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The role of the committee includes: determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the Sir Bill Gammell executive directors, the Chairman, and the Companys Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities: within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual The Nomination Committee met five times in 2013.
The Chairman and three remuneration package for each executive director: of the Companys independent non-executive directors are members of the determining the level of awards made under the Companys share option Committee.
In addition, to ensure continuing executive input on nomination plans and long-term incentive plans and the performance conditions which matters, Simon Thomson was appointed a member of the committee on 13 March are to apply: 2013 he was previously an invitee at meetings of the CGN.
Jann Brown stepped determining bonuses payable under the Companys annual cash bonus scheme: down as a member following the split of the CGN and is now a member of the determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long-term incentive Governance Committee only.
plans and exercise of share options: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors.
72 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Statement Continued The role of the Nomination Committee includes: Beneath Board level, we are seeking to develop and increase the number of considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making women in senior management roles across the Group through a number of recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of measures, including our succession planning, training and development and new directors and on the reappointment and orderly succession of existing flexible working policies, which support diversity at Cairn.
The pipeline of directors: and younger talent within the Group is also diverse and bodes well for the future.
facilitating an annual performance evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board are effectively discharging and devoting sufficient time to Succession Planning their duties and responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the The Committee considers, on an ongoing basis, the balance of skills, experience, Board and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
The Board independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board, its diversity including has satisfied itself that the committee has in place appropriate plans for orderly gender, how the Board works together as a unit, and other factors relevant to the succession to the Board and senior management positions as well as procedures Boards effectiveness.
to ensure an appropriate balance of skills within the Company and on the Board and its committees.
One of the main recommendations of the 2012 external board evaluation was to appoint up to two new non-executive directors.
The Company publicly stated its The Board and the Nomination Committee have regularly discussed and aim to do this in last years corporate governance statement and confirmed that reviewed Board composition and succession planning throughout 2013 and external recruitment consultants Ridgeway Partners had been instructed in this will continue in 2014 in view of the Board changes which will take effect connection with the proposed appointments.
Ridgeway Partners has no other following the AGM.
The Board intends to appoint a new non-executive director connection with the Company.
with relevant technical skills and experience during 2014.
The Company subsequently appointed Ian Tyler as a non-executive director.
The Board and the Nomination Committee are satisfied that the individuals The process with regard to this appointment is described below.
currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
Appointment of Ian Tyler Ridgeway Partners was briefed regarding the proposed appointment in early 2013 and prepared a long-list by the end of February.
The long-list was screened Governance Committee Report by Ridgeway and a number of candidates then short-listed for interview by them.
Following these interviews Ridgeway put forward five candidates for consideration As disclosed in last years corporate by the Company, all of whom met with the Chief Executive.
Three candidates were subsequently short-listed by the Company and were interviewed by both governance statement, it was agreed at the Chairman and Chief Executive, pursuant to which Ian Tyler was selected.
the March 2013 Board meeting that the Following selection and prior to his appointment, Mr Tyler met with the other then existing Corporate Governance and executive and non-executive directors, the Company Secretary and senior Nomination Committee CGN should management.
Mr Tyler was given the opportunity to, and subsequently carried out, due diligence on the Company.
The Nomination Committee then recommended to be split into two separate committees, the the Board that Ian Tyler be appointed as a non-executive director of the Company Nomination Committee and the Governance and the proposed appointment was unanimously approved by the Board.
Mr Tyler was appointed with effect from 28 June 2013 and was also appointed a member Committee.
The membership of both of the Audit and Remuneration committees with effect from that date.
committees was refreshed at that time.
As explained on page 67, the Board has subsequently agreed that Mr Tyler will The members of the Governance Committee become non-executive Chairman when Sir Bill Gammell retires from this role during the year were as follows: following the AGM on 15 May 2014.
Jackie Sheppard appointed chair with effect from 13 March 2013 : Diversity Todd Hunt: The Nomination Committee very much takes into account the benefits of Alexander Berger: diversity on the Board, including gender.
Cairn currently has two women on its Sir Bill Gammell: Board, one executive Jann Brown, Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer Jann Brown appointed a member of and one non-executive Jackie Sheppard.
The Board is also diverse in terms the committee on 13 March 2013 : and of the range of nationality and international experience of its members.
Iain McLaren stepped down as a member of the committee Cairn aspires to diversify its Board further as part of its succession planning on 13 March 2013. policy, although in seeking to achieve this aspiration we will not appoint a woman to the Board unless she is the best candidate for the role.
Whilst two women were short-listed and interviewed for the most recent NED appointment, the selection process identified a male as the best candidate for the role.
When engaged in future searches for non-executive directors, the Company will continue to require search consultants to include female candidates on both the long and short lists.
Jackie Sheppard Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Corporate Governance Statement Continued The Company recognises that the success of the comply-or-explain approach The Governance Committee met four times in 2013.
The Governance Committee is comprised of a majority of independent non-executive directors.
under the UK Corporate Governance Code depends on an ongoing and open dialogue with shareholders, and remains committed to communicating with In addition, to ensure continuing executive input on governance matters, the Managing Director & CFO was appointed a member of the committee on shareholders, as well as proxy voting agencies, on any matter which they wish to discuss in relation to the Companys governance.
13 March 2013 having previously been a member of the CGN.
The role of the Governance Committee includes: Annual General Meeting AGM reviewing and approving changes to the Boards corporate governance The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors practices and policies: and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all of the Companys directors to monitoring the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance attend the AGM if possible.
Whilst this may not always be possible for business Code and with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements: and or personal reasons, in normal circumstances the chair of each of the Board reviewing developments in corporate governance generally and advising the committees will be available to attend the AGM and be prepared to answer Board periodically with respect to significant developments in the law and questions.
It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to Relations with Shareholders give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM Company has implemented the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding on 15 May 2014 can be found in the Notice of AGM posted with this Annual electronic communication with its shareholders, in order to give shareholders Report.
Further explanation of each of the resolutions can also be found in the more choice and flexibility in how they receive information from the Company.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional counted before the AGM and the results will be made available at the meeting shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year-end after the shareholders have voted in a poll on each resolution.
Both the Form of and half-yearly results.
The Chairman is available to attend a number of these Proxy and the poll card for the AGM include a vote withheld option in respect meetings.
At the Board meeting immediately following these meetings, a detailed of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution.
report is given to all directors who were not in attendance at those meetings.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote in law In addition, the Company maintains an external relations database which details and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for all meetings attended by the directors with third party stakeholders.
All analysts or against a resolution.
and brokers reports on the Company are also distributed to all directors.
Cairn responds promptly to correspondence from shareholders and its website The information required to be disclosed by DTR 7.2.
R in relation to securities contains a wide range of information on the Company, including a dedicated and voting rights thereon is set out in the Directors Report on page 65. investor relations section.
Directors Responsibility Statement A list of the Companys major shareholders can be found in the Directors Report The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Directors on page 65.
Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
The senior independent non-executive director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each the Chief Executive or the Managing Director & CFO has failed to resolve or for financial year.
Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group and which such contact is inappropriate.
parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Each of the non-executive directors is available to attend meetings with major Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the shareholders without the executive directors present, if requested by such directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that major shareholders.
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing In April 2013, the Chairman and the Company Secretary met or held conference calls these financial statements, the directors are required to: with a number of the Companys major shareholders and certain proxy voting select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: agencies to discuss governance.
The matters discussed included the following: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: an explanation of the main findings of the external Board performance state whether applicable IFRSs issued by the IASB and adopted by the evaluation and how the Company is implementing the recommendations European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures including Board composition, the role of the Chairman and changes to disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Board committees : prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is the Companys Board meetings process including pre-Board meetings inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
followed by Board and committee meetings over two consecutive days changes to advisers particularly external and internal auditors : The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that diversity: and are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose the Companys risk management process see pages 42 to 49 for more with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and details of this process.
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, These meetings allowed major shareholders to express their views on the matters as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
discussed in advance of the Companys AGM in May 2013 and for the Company They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and to consider and respond to any other issues raised.
At these meetings, a number Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of shareholders provided very positive feedback in relation to the Companys of fraud and other irregularities.
74 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Statement Continued The directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Operations in any country are only possible when values are shared.
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for The directors believe that the values of integrity, social and environmental responsibility, teamwork and nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
and alliances with key partners are ingredients that are central to the Companys success.
Throughout the Companys work, Cairn considers all its stakeholders Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors section on pages 62 and 63, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: interests and has a consultative engagement programme with host governments, joint venture partners, investors and local communities where it operates.
The the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, directors recognise the value of working as a partnership with host governments, both nationally and regionally, and believe this is a critical ingredient in delivering financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Company: and the Strategic Review section of this Annual Report which is cross referred a successful business.
to in the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with Particular attention has been placed by the Companys management during 2013 on ensuring that a robust system of internal control has been maintained during the a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
year in relation to the key risks in the Companys business activities.
The Company has undertaken a number of transactions during 2013 through which it has entered Information pursuant to the Takeovers Directive The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR 7.2.
7 into new joint ventures in Senegal, the Republic of Ireland, Mauritania and Morocco.
The system of internal controls will be applied in all of these new business locations.
directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of directors: powers of the directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control of the During 2013, external specialists from Grant Thornton GT conducted a review of Company in the Directors Report.
the Companys internal control framework documentation to determine whether it complied with all of the relevant corporate governance requirements, that it is Going Concern The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on in line with best practice and that it is understood within the business.
This review concluded that while the framework document lays out all of the requirements, it is going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future less effective in spelling out responsibilities and how the framework is implemented in the expanded business.
The framework document will be updated based on the and have therefore continued to use the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In concluding that the going concern assumption is outcome of the review, and will be rolled out across the business in Q1 2014. appropriate, the Board and Audit Committee considered the Group cash flow forecasts under various scenarios, and concluded that the Group has sufficient Additionally, enhancements have been made during 2013 to the following key controls, business processes and procedures: funding to meet its current commitments as and when they fall due.
The technical, contractual and financial delegation of authority has been refreshed for the new regional organisation to ensure accountabilities and Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for responsibilities are clearly defined.
The Well Engineering and Construction Management System has been regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company has in place an Integrated Internal Control and Assurance Framework the framework, which plays a finalised and issued, including a new Cost Control and Budget Management Standard.
critical role in setting out how the Company manages and assures itself that the risks relating to the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives are The updated Company Corporate Responsibility Management System CRMS has been finalised and rolled out.
A series of workshops has been held effectively controlled.
The framework is based on the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations COSO framework and its five key components, which is the most with all staff to raise awareness of the new Cairn HSE Cultural Framework and to further embed the desired behaviours towards HSE.
commonly used and recognised framework for considering internal control systems.
It is central to safeguarding shareholders interests and Company A policy has been issued defining the Companys approach to communications using social media.
This system of internal control is in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of The Companys Business Risk Management System has been updated for enhancements to the process over the last few years and to reflect the new failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Management System MS in the Stavanger office has been updated to The framework has been in place in respect of the Company for the 2013 cover participation in non-operated developments as well as exploration and appraisal activities, to meet regulatory requirements.
accounting period and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal Following a treasury review by the internal auditor in late 2012, a follow-up review has been conducted by Deloitte of all the treasury policies, standards controls during 2013 and will ensure that such reviews are performed in 2014.
In so doing, the Board has taken into account the assurance provided by the Chief and procedures, including a comparison with best practice and industry peers.
The review identified a number of additional policies which will be Executive in respect of the effectiveness of the system of internal control within the Company.
The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective controls are in considered by the Treasury Sub-Committee.
Business Continuity Plans have been updated across the Company to reflect place and that risks have been mitigated to an acceptable level.
the current business impacts and recovery strategies, including a change in disaster recovery provider.
The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature of the oil and gas exploration and production business and relate to the countries in The anti bribery and corruption procedures covering the supply chain and the selection of new business partners have been updated for the lessons which it conducts its activities see pages 42 to 49 of this Annual Report for more information on risks.
The directors believe that Cairn derives its competitive learned over the past year.
edge by focusing resource in areas which offer potential for material growth, where the Company has a technical and commercial advantage.
The Companys experience gained over many years enables risks to be managed effectively and appropriately.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 Corporate Governance Statement Continued The following describes the key elements of the framework and the processes 3.
Risk Management used by the Board during 2013 to review the effectiveness of the system and The Risk Management Committee RMC, established by the Board in 1999, the approach to be taken in 2014. continues to be responsible for the development of risk management strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation of the 1.
Strategic Direction requirements of this strategy.
It does this by ensuring that the framework for the The Companys business model is that the strategy and business plan are identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for proposed by the executive directors and approved by the Board.
The Chief purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation Executive is responsible for managing the Companys business and proposing to these risks to bring them within the Risk Appetite agreed by the Board.
and developing the Companys strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board.
As leader of the Executive Team, he is also The Companys Business Risk Management System BRMS defines the responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees and processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, ensuring successful and efficient achievement of the Companys objectives.
treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Company.
The BRMS also identifies the risk management organisational structure through which business 2.
Operating Management risks are managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset, country and The Company operates three regional units covering different countries and with Company levels.
The BRMS was updated in 2013 to cover enhancements to various partners on both an operated and non-operated basis.
Supporting the the process over the last few years and to reflect the new regional organisation.
strategy is a matrix organisation where the assets are the principal focus tasked with delivering objectives for their particular asset with functional departments The RMC was chaired by Simon Thomson, the Chief Executive for the first six providing support to the assets in delivering their objectives.
months of 2013 and then in accordance with a rotation policy, the chair was taken over by Jann Brown, Managing Director & CFO with effect from 1 July 2013.
The The Executive Team, which comprises the three executive directors, has the RMC currently comprises executive directors and senior functional management.
primary role of devising strategy including new ventures and sanctioning the The Internal Auditor also attends RMC meetings, in order to ensure internal business plan and work programmes and budget, and overall responsibility audits integration with the risk management process.
Regular joint Management for investor relations, corporate governance matters and implementing the and Corporate Team, and joint Management, Corporate and Executive Team risk communications strategy.
Reporting to the Executive Team are two teams: the meetings were also held to manage the assessment and treatment of business Management Team, who are primarily responsible for day-to-day management risks that may affect the Companys ability to deliver its strategy.
of the delivery of the approved business plan and work programmes: and the Corporate Team, who are responsible for maintaining market reporting and The RMC relies on the identification of business risks, together with the communications and ensuring corporate governance processes are effectively identified mitigating measures and responsibilities, which are recorded in asset, implemented.
Further information on the Management Team and the Corporate country, regional and departmental risk registers and then consolidated into the Team can be found earlier in this statement on pages 70 and 71.
The directors Companys risk register, which is regularly reviewed by the joint Management and have also appointed Functional Department Heads whose roles include Corporate Teams, joint Management, Corporate and Executive Teams and the providing expert input and challenge to the work programmes, budgets and RMC to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there business plans, supplying the relevant director with full and accurate information is an embedded risk management approach in place across the Company.
with which to make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
Enhancements to our approach to risk management during 2013 included: A business plan with a five-year outlook and annual work programmes and holding a series of workshops to undertake an assessment of the gross versus budgets are prepared annually to help ensure the Company meets its strategy.
net risks and to identify the key controls that are in place to mitigate these These start at asset level before being consolidated at Regional and Company risks.
The risk management approach and reporting of risks to the RMC were levels.
The business plan sets out detailed objectives and key performance updated, in particular providing a more rigorous differentiation between the indicators for each asset and supporting functional departments, and is risks that we can tolerate with existing controls and those that need to be consolidated into the Companys annual business plan.
After an iterative treated with additional controls: process, the business plan and budget are presented to the Executive extensive use of bowties, a tool used by the Company to map out the key Team and the Board for approval.
risk interdependencies, causes, consequences and mitigations for an identified risk.
The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement the business plan and to deliver the agreed work programmes within the The RMC reports on the Companys risk profile to both the Audit Committee approved budget and delegations of authority, and in accordance with the and the Board.
Additionally, the Audit Committee and the Board receive internal internal control framework.
reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls relative to the key risks.
The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2013 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are effective.
76 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Statement Continued 4.
Assurance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The framework adopted by the Board provides for the standard three levels Throughout 2013 the Company complied with the provisions of the UK of assurance against the risks facing the Company: first of all at the operational Corporate Governance Code published in 2012, except in the following area: level: secondly through overview by functional management and the RMC: Provision of the UK and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
Corporate Governance Code Company position Explanation B.
1.1 the Board should Todd Hunt has served on The Company accepts The integrated internal control and assurance framework document includes a state its reasons if it the Board for more than that Mr Hunt is no longer description of the Companys business and assurance models and of its organisation determines that a nine years since his initial independent given his and committee structure, and defines responsibilities.
The framework defines the director is independent appointment to the Board length of tenure but the key policies and procedures which govern the way in which Cairn conducts its notwithstanding the in May 2003.
Board has agreed that business and are therefore a core part of its system of internal control.
As mentioned existence of relationships he should continue as a earlier, Cairns internal control and assurance framework document was reviewed or circumstances which non-executive director by external specialists in 2013 and an updated framework document finalised and may appear relevant to its in order to retain his rolled out across the business in Q1 2014. determination, including valuable technical skills, if the director has served and extensive business During 2013, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of on the Board for more experience following the financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance controls, than nine years from the retirement of Sir Bill risk management and high-level internal control arrangements.
The Directors date of their first election.
Gammell and Dr James derived assurance from the following internal and external controls during 2013: Buckee at the AGM.
a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the Board: implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities: an appropriate organisational structure: control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated representatives: specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions and other key technical and commercial decisions: segregation of duties where appropriate and cost-effective: business and financial reporting, including KPIs: functional management reviews: an annual letters of assurance process, through which asset and functional managers review and confirm the adequacy of internal financial and nonfinancial controls and their compliance with Company policies, and report any control weaknesses identified in the past year: a letter of assurance from the Chief Executive confirming the adequacy of internal controls within the Company in line with its policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the past year: an annual internal audit plan, which is approved by the Audit Committee and Board and is driven by risks and key controls: reports from the Audit Committee and RMC: reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit: reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers: independent third party reviews: and the skills and experience of all employees.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77
