Audit Committee Report We met five times in 2013.
At our request, the Chief Financial Officer and senior Dear Shareholder members of the Finance Department attended each of these meetings.
Other relevant people from the business are also invited to attend certain meetings Throughout 2013, our activities continued to give us the necessary insight into their own areas of business, for example in relation to the reporting of oil and gas reserves.
to be focused on the integrity of the financial reporting of the Group, the In addition, all but one of these meetings was attended by the external auditors and by the internal auditors.
quality of the external audit process and the appropriateness of internal controls.
The external auditors receive copies of all relevant Audit Committee papers including the papers that were considered at the meeting when they were not We will continue to evolve our activities in attendance and minutes of all Committee meetings.
In addition, I regularly and our reporting to you in light of meet with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Group.
guidance from regulators and in line Responsibilities with market best practice.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee take into account the requirements of the Code and are available for inspection on the Groups website.
During the year under review, I served as Chairman of the Audit Committee alongside three of my fellow Non-Executive Directors, These include: all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and The members of the Committee who served with me during reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: the year were: reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in Dr James Buckee: financial reports: Alexander Berger: and reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and internal control and Ian Tyler appointed a member of the committee on risk management systems and oversight of the Groups Risk Management 28 June 2013.
Committee: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: overseeing the Groups relationship with the external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement and engagement for non-audit services, and monitoring the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: and reviewing the Groups whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The members of the Committee have been chosen to provide the wide range of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil these duties.
In addition, both Ian Tyler and I have Chartered Accountant qualifications as well as recent and relevant financial experience.
Main Activities of the Committee During the Year The first two meetings of the Audit Committee, in January and March 2013, were principally concerned with the 2012 year-end results and process.
The significant accounting issues as reported in the 2012 Annual Report were discussed and agreed.
The Committee also met to conduct the final stage of the competitive tender for external audit services which was explained in full in the 2012 Annual Report.
This took the form of a presentation by four firms to the Audit Committee in January 2013.
The following meetings in June and August 2013 focused on the half-year results for 2013 and planning for the 2013 year-end process.
The main issues discussed were in relation to impairment of the Groups remaining 10% interest in Cairn India Limited which is included adjacent in the 2013 year-end significant accounting issues.
Full details are given in Note 3.1 to the Financial Statements on page 116.
There was also a discussion on the treatment of foreign exchange movements in the deferred tax calculation relating to the CIL shares.
In October 2013, the internal audit plan for 2014 was discussed and three audits agreed for the first quarter of 2014.
As explained in the 2012 Annual Report, Cairn ran competitive tenders for the Iain McLaren positions of both external auditor and internal auditor last year and time was spent at each Committee meeting in ensuring that the handover plans for these services were being managed effectively.
78 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Audit Committee Report Continued At each meeting, the Committee monitors the work of the Internal Audit function, now outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP.
We agree the areas to be covered by internal audit and ensure that any findings are quickly implemented by management.
In relation to whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair balanced and understandable, it was agreed by the Board that this was a responsibility of the whole Board and therefore this has not been delegated to the Audit Committee.
2013 Year-End and Significant Accounting Issues Since the year end, we have met twice in January and March 2014 in respect of the 2013 year-end accounts.
The key issues discussed are set out in the table below.
Key accounting issue Impairment of Deferred tax credit arising Goodwill impairment testing Impairment of the Financial Post Balance Sheet Events the Catcher asset on the Kraken Field on North Sea assets asset remaining in CIL restriction on sale of CIL Background At each reporting date, the In November, DECC Goodwill, allocated to the The Groups remaining 10% In January 2014, Cairn Audit Committee review approved the field Mature Basin North Sea interest in Cairn India Limited received a request from the Groups oil and gas development plan for the UK segment, is tested annually is held at market value in the the Indian Income Tax exploration appraisal Kraken field at which point for impairment by comparing Groups balance sheet, with Department to provide assets for indicators that the asset was re-classified the carrying value of the movements in the valuation information in relation to the the assets may be impaired.
from exploration appraisal assets and liabilities in the recorded within other year ended 31 March 2007.
The Committee concluded assets into development cash-generating unit CGU comprehensive income.
While the interactions with that an indicator of producing assets.
Approval to the recoverable amount At the July meeting it was the Indian Income Tax impairment did exist for of the field development plan of the exploration and noted that there had been Department continue, Cairn one of the Groups UK also confirmed that the asset development assets in a significant fall in the has been restricted from assets, the Catcher field is eligible for two Heavy Oil this CGU.
valuation of the asset selling its shares in CIL.
and an impairment test was field allowances, introduced from the value recorded performed by management, by the UK Government in at the date of its original resulting in impairment of 2011, reducing the Groups recognition.
future tax charge on the forecast profits from the field.
Audit Committee action We carefully examined the The Audit Committee In addition to the review of The Audit Committee Though discussions are asset impairment test and examined the proposed the underlying assumptions, debated whether or not ongoing, the Audit Committee challenged managements accounting treatment for the Audit Committee sought this fall in value should examined the disclosures underlying assumptions these field allowances, where assurance from the Director result in an impairment made by management in the such as oil price, discount they have been added to the of Operations on the reserve of the investment.
2013 year-end financial rates, inflation and escalation tax base of the Kraken asset and resource estimates that statements, confirming that rates etc.
seeking external recoverable against future feed cash flow models used to the disclosures were accurate evidence to support taxable profits, and the determine the net present and complete.
these assumptions subsequent recognition value of the North Sea assets.
These of a deferred tax asset.
We challenged the revisions assumptions are used in the to estimates in the year and discounted cash flow models the variations between used to value the asset.
managements estimates and those of the operator.
Audit Committee conclusions Following challenge, the Having discussed with the We concluded that Although we believed that The Audit Committee agreed Audit Committee gained auditors that managements impairment of goodwill the fall in value was not a with management that the comfort that managements proposed treatment complied did exist and that the permanent diminution in restriction was a nonassumptions were appropriate.
with IFRS and was consistent methodology for determining the value of the investment, adjusting post balance sheet with emerging industry the fair value less cost of it was significant and event and confirmed with the We were also satisfied practice, we accepted disposal of the Groups therefore under IFRS, auditors that the proposed that there were no further managements proposed North Sea assets was correct impairment should be disclosures met the indicators of impairment accounting treatment.
on the Groups other oil estimates had been used.
Further details Section 2.1 on page 111 Section 4.3 on page 124 Section 2.4 on page 114 Section 3.1 on page 116 Section 6.1 on page 132 Going Concern At each reporting date management consider the factors relevant to support a statement of going concern see Corporate Governance section on page 75.
The Audit Committee review and challenge managements conclusions so that we may, in turn, provide comfort to the Board that managements assessment has been considered and challenged where appropriate.
Given the post balance sheet restriction on the sale of the shareholding of Cairn India, reducing the Groups liquid assets, the Audit Committee carefully reviewed managements going concern conclusion based on the Groups latest net cash position and the forecast spend to period ending 31 March 2015.
This confirmed that the Group is fully funded to meet its work programme and firm commitments.
The Audit Committee subsequently recommended to the Board that the Group continues to use the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 Audit Committee Report Continued In all cases, a business justification must be provided for the use of the auditor External Audit to undertake the work and where no Audit Committee approval is required, the The current edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code states that FTSE 350 engagement of the auditor must be approved by the CFO.
Where quotes are required companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten these must be obtained from at least two competent firms, with specific reasons being years.
As explained in the 2012 Annual Report, Cairn decided to comply with this provided for including the Groups auditors.
The auditors are specifically excluded from provision early and undertook an external audit re-tendering process in 2012 undertaking any work that directly relates to the preparation of the Group financial and early 2013. statements or the financial statements of subsidiaries.
Following this process which was fully described in the 2012 Corporate During the year, PwC carried out work on Transfer Pricing, the contract for which is Governance Statement Cairn announced in March 2013 that it proposed to multi-year and had been entered into well in advance of their appointment as external appoint  LLP PwC as auditor of the Group commencing auditor.
The independence of PwC as external auditors was maintained as the with the 2013 financial half-year, following our recommendation.
As resigning Transfer Pricing work was performed by a separate team independent of the audit auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY provided the Company with a statement of team, and all decisions associated with the work were made by management.
circumstances confirming its resignation as auditor of the Company following their unsuccessful tender and a copy of this statement was circulated to shareholders A full breakdown of remuneration paid to the Groups external auditor in respect with the 2013 Notice of AGM.
Shareholders subsequently approved the resolution of both audit and non-audit work is provided in Appendix 5 of the Financial to reappoint PwC as auditor of the Company at the AGM held on 16 May 2013.
PwC therefore took over from EY as external auditor following conclusion of Internal Audit the 2012 year-end audit with a smooth transition and handover completed in Following a competitive tender process, EY was appointed as the Groups internal advance of the 2013 financial half-year.
As part of this transition process, both auditor with effect from July 2013, with KPMG fulfilling the role up to that point.
EY and PwC were in attendance at the March 2013 Audit Committee meeting During the handover period, EY reviewed the 2013 Internal Audit Plan and engaged with PwC assuming full responsibility for reporting to the Audit Committee with with key stakeholders to identify areas of the business that should be considered for effect from the following meeting in June 2013. future internal audits.
As a result of this work, the Audit Committee confirmed the plan for 2013 and Q1 2014.
The full 2014 plan was then agreed at the meeting of Assessment of External Audit Process the Committee in January 2014.
During the course of the year, we have been closely monitoring the performance of PwC as our new auditor.
This has included gaining feedback from regular meetings Prior to the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the with the Groups senior finance staff on implementation of the transition plan internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review agreed during the tender process, feedback from meetings with key Cairn senior of the outcome of the previous years internal audits, the outcome of the annual staff throughout the organisation, regular and detailed reporting by the auditor on assessment of effectiveness of internal control refer to page 77, the records of the findings of interim audit work conducted during 2013 and an assessment of the historical audits of fundamental business processes and the significant risks in the external audit effectiveness conducted by the Company prior to the March 2014 Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The internal auditor also Audit Committee meeting.
participates in meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks and to update the The annual assessment of PwCs performance on their first full year audit of committee on the internal audit work plan.
The Audit Committee also receives the Group involved completion of a questionnaire by each member of the Audit updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and other senior members of the finance auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Groups department.
The questionnaires were completed following the audit closing internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
meeting held with PwC in early March 2014 and the results of this assessment The external auditors do, however, attend all Committee meetings where internal were then discussed at the March 2014 Committee meeting.
There were no audit updates are given.
actions which required to be taken following this assessment.
Whistleblowing and Related Policies Auditor Independence and Provision of Non-Audit Services The Group updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2012 and the new policy We have a long established policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services was subsequently rolled out across the organisation and reviewed by the Audit by the external auditors.
The Group will engage an external adviser to provide Committee.
The committee is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
These advisers may include the Groups external auditors, under a restricted set of circumstances see adjacent, although, before the The Group has in place a comprehensive  engagement commences, Cairn must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity Management System and Code of Business Ethics and training has been provided and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being to all staff in relation to these.
As Cairn enters new countries, further monitoring instructed to carry out those services.
is undertaken and training is kept updated.
Further information regarding these policies is included in the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Groups current policy for approval of non-audit services was reviewed and re-approved by the Audit Committee in January 2013 and full details of this are set out below.
Audit Committee Fee level Quotes Required Approval Required Iain McLaren 025,000 No No Chairman of the Audit Committee 25,00150,000 Yes with exception No 17 March 2013 50,001100,000 Yes No 100,000 Yes Yes In justifiable circumstances, such as expediency for operational requirements, the need to obtain quotes can be waived.
80 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
