DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS I am pleased to introduce our Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters, in which, among other things, we describe the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, explain how the Board and its main standing committees have operated during the past year, and describe how effective stewardship is exercised over the Groups activities in the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
Board P P P Pa a a at t t tr r r ri i i ic c c ck O k O k O k O S S S Su u u ul l l ll l l li i i iva va va van n n n Since last years report, we have recruited three new independent C Ch ha ai ir rm man an non-executive directors to the Board, Nkosana Moyo, Zoe Cruz and Adiba Ighodaro.
Zoes extensive experience of international financial markets and asset management will provide us with additional insight into these important areas of the Groups business, while Nkosanas and Adibas deep knowledge of investing and operating in various countries in Africa will widen the Boards ability to evaluate opportunities as we pursue our strategy of expanding further into new territories in Africa.
With these appointments, we now have a Board which reflects substantial diversity in terms of skills, experience and geography, while also fulfilling our commitment to gender diversity two years earlier than our original target.
We were sorry to say goodbye to Bongani Nqwababa in January 2014, when he left the Board after taking up another prestigious non-executive directorship in South Africa.
We are grateful to him for his contribution to the Group over the past seven years.
During 2013, the Board devoted a significant amount of time to discussion of future strategic options for the Group, both in Africa and elsewhere.
This included holding a Board meeting in Lagos, where we had a welcome opportunity to interact with our newly acquired operations there and also to hear about the other exciting opportunities that exist in Nigeria and other parts of West Africa.
This commitment by the Board to getting to know the Groups new businesses in Africa was reinforced by a Board meeting in Nairobi in Kenya during January 2014.
Two of our other Board meetings were held in South Africa during 2013, enabling the Board to hear first-hand from our South African businesses management teams and to meet some of the emerging local talent, which was one of the priorities that we set for ourselves following last years Board effectiveness review.
A fuller report on the activities of the Board is contained in the report that follows.
Annual General Meeting Our AGM will be held in London on 15 May 2014 and will be webcast via our website as in prior years.
As usual, there will be an opportunity for shareholders to submit questions beforehand to be dealt with at the meeting.
Our shareholder circular relating to the AGM includes further details of these matters.
We remain committed to ensuring that external expectations about governance of the Group remain fulfilled in an efficient and proper manner in the long-term interests of shareholders and others.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman Old Mutual plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance To take due account of the regulatory requirement that boards of What is the Companys approach to governance?
regulated entities maintain proper controls over the affairs of their Old Mutual views good governance as a vital ingredient in operating respective businesses a successful business, so that we can provide assurance to To protect the interests of the Groups various stakeholders including shareholders, customers and regulators that the Groups businesses are its shareholders, creditors, policyholders and customers.
being properly managed and controlled.
Our Group Operating Model GOM is based upon a strategic The governance relationship with the Groups majority-owned subsidiary, controller model steered from our Head Office.
Its objectives are: Nedbank Group Limited, recognises the latters own governance framework as a separately-listed entity on the JSE Limited and the To establish clear principles of delegation and escalation designed fact that it has minority shareholders.
The Company has a relationship to provide appropriate levels of assurance about the control agreement with Nedbank Group Limited that sets out the Companys environment, while retaining flexibility for our businesses to requirements and expectations as its majority shareholder.
The text of operate efficiently that relationship agreement is available on the Companys website.
To set out a clear and comprehensive governance framework, Nedbank has also now adopted the GOM, subject to certain waivers with appropriate procedures, systems and controls, facilitating the in acknowledgement of its separately-listed and regulated status, which satisfactory discharge of the duties and obligations of regulated sits alongside that agreement.
firms, directors and employees within the Group The box below provides further information about how our GOM works.
To provide a clear articulation of Old Mutual plcs expectations as shareholder of business unit boards when exercising their powers as set out in their respective constitutions GROUP Group Internal Audit provides assurance over Group and Business Unit BU activities Group delegates Group sets policies: Group functions use Group sets risk The Old Mutual plc Group representation authority via the Group Policy BU representations to appetite limits and Board sets strategy.
on BU boards, GOM and identifies Owners are make representations monitors risk profile Group monitors the co-ordination matters which responsible for to the Group Board performance of BUs between Group and require BU issuing refreshing and to support the through Quarterly BU functions and clearance prior policies and Annual Report Business Reviews dual-reporting lines to action or monitoring the internal control for Internal Audit, notification postdegree to which disclosures Finance, Actuarial, action in the GOM policy has been HR and Risk, Quick Reference embedded Governance and Guide QRG Compliance functions 1 2 3 4 5 6 Business-as-usual Letter of Strategy and Delegated Group policy Risk oversight oversight, representation performance authorities framework and management reporting and and ICEA monitoring co-ordination BUs must adhere to BUs are responsible BUs provide letters of BUs report to Group BUs submit Business BUs request input expenditure limits, for embedding the representation twice on risk profile and Plans and QBR packs and agreement request prior policy, reporting a year to Group the comparison to in line with the content from Group to clearance or provide breaches to Group confirming compliance risk limits, issues requirements as set appointments, talent notification on core Policy Owners and with the GOM and and breaches out in the GOM management, matters as set out in requesting policy Group policies, which performance the QRG.
Where waivers where support the Group management, appropriate, GOM appropriate Internal Control remuneration and waivers must be Effectiveness leavers for BU requested Assessment ICEA Function Heads Business Units Business Units are defined as one of the following units: Group Head Office: Old Mutual Emerging Markets: Old Mutual Wealth: US Asset Management: Nedbank Group: and Old Mutual Bermuda.
Property & Casualty now falls under Old Mutual Emerging Markets.
91 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued As the Companys primary listing now known in the UK as a premium Who serves on the Board and how does it operate?
listing is on the London Stock Exchange, this report mainly addresses Old Mutuals Board currently has 12 members, two of whom are the matters covered by the UK Corporate Governance Code, but the executive and 10 of whom including the Chairman are non-executive.
Company also has regard to governance expectations in other territories The following changes to the Boards non-executive membership have where its shares are listed.
The Groups major South African public taken place since the start of 2013: subsidiary companies are subject to applicable local governance expectations, including those contained in King III and, in the case of Eva Castillo resigned as a director on 28 February 2013 Nedbank Group Limited, the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited.
Danuta Gray joined the Board on 1 March 2013 Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 and in the preparation Russell Edey and Lars Otterbeck retired from the Board at the end of this Annual Report and these Accounts, the Company has complied of the AGM on 9 May 2013 with the main and supporting principles and provisions set out in the UK Nkosana Moyo joined the Board on 1 September 2013 Corporate Governance Code as described in the following sections of Zoe Cruz and Adiba Ighodaro joined the Board and Bongani this report.
The Companys compliance with UK Corporate Governance Nqwababa resigned as a director on 6 January 2014.
Code provisions and the statement relating to the going concern basis The table below sets out the Boards continuing membership in more adopted in preparing the financial statements set out at the end of this detail.
section of this report, have been reviewed by the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, in accordance with guidance published by the UK Auditing Practices Board.
Date of original Date Name and appointment to the current Current Role nationality Board term ends term as director Non-executive director Reuel Khoza SA Jan 2006 Jan 2015 3rd 3rd year Non-executive director Mike Arnold UK Sept 2009 Sept 2015 2nd Chairman Patrick OSullivan Irish Jan 2010 Jan 2016 2nd Non-executive director Roger Marshall UK Aug 2010 Aug 2016 2nd Senior Independent Director Alan Gillespie UK Nov 2010 Nov 2016 2nd Non-executive director Nku Nyembezi-Heita SA March 2012 March 2015 1st Non-executive director Danuta Gray UK March 2013 March 2016 1st Non-executive director Nkosana Moyo Zim Sept 2013 Sept 2016 1st Non-executive director Zoe Cruz US Jan 2014 Jan 2017 1st Non-executive director Adiba Ighodaro UK Jan 2014 Jan 2017 1st Group Chief Executive Julian Roberts UK Aug 2000 Group Finance Director Philip Broadley UK Nov 2008 The Company announced on 13 December 2013 that Philip Broadley Group Audit Committee: Roger Marshall Chairman intended to step down as Group Finance Director during 2014.
He has Mike Arnold agreed to remain in his position until a suitable successor has been Danuta Gray appointed.
Although this may be after this years AGM, he will not Adiba Ighodaro stand for re-election at the AGM in light of his planned departure.
Nkosana Moyo Various changes have been made to Board Committee memberships Nomination Committee: Patrick OSullivan Chairman following the annual review of the composition of the Committees Alan Gillespie and in light of the recent changes to the Board described above.
Danuta Gray As a consequence, the memberships of the Boards main standing Reuel Khoza Committees further details of which are set out later in this report Nku Nyembezi-Heita and in the Directors Remuneration Report are now as follows: Julian Roberts Board Risk Committee: Mike Arnold Chairman Remuneration Committee: A lan Gillespie Chairman Zoe Cruz Zoe Cruz Reuel Khoza Danuta Gray Roger Marshall Roger Marshall Nku Nyembezi-Heita Nkosana Moyo It has also been agreed that, after the 2014 AGM, Danuta Gray will step down from the Group Audit Committee and will succeed Alan Gillespie as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Gillespie will still remain a member of that committee after ceasing to be its Chairman.
Old Mutual plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance What is the Boards role and how does it operate?
Separately from the formal Board meeting schedule, the Chairman The Boards role is to exercise stewardship of the Company within a holds meetings with the other non-executive directors, without any framework of prudent and effective controls that enables risk to be executives being present, to provide a forum for any issues to be raised.
The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, He also conducts an annual one-to-one performance evaluation of reviews whether the necessary financial and human resources are each of the other non-executive directors, with any resulting action in place for it to meet its objectives and monitors management points being reported to the Nomination Committee.
It is kept informed about major developments affecting Informal meetings among the non-executive directors, without the the Group through the Group Chief Executives and Group Finances Chairman or any executive being present, are also facilitated by the monthly reports and holds regular strategy sessions at which high-level Company.
Among the activities carried out at such meetings is the strategic matters are discussed.
The GOM sets out matters that are annual review of the Chairmans own performance under the aegis specifically reserved for Board decision and protocols that govern of the Senior Independent Director, who also obtains such input as escalation of issues to it and delegation of powers from it in a manner he considers appropriate from the executive directors.
that is designed to ensure clarity about where responsibility for decision-making lies.
The assignment of responsibilities between the Chairman, Patrick OSullivan, and the Group Chief Executive, Julian Roberts, In accordance with the GOM, the Board has delegated its executive is documented so as to ensure that there is a clear division between powers to the Group Chief Executive, with power to sub-delegate, and the running of the Board and executive responsibility for running the also to the Approvals Committee.
In his co-ordination and stewardship Companys business.
The responsibilities of Patrick OSullivan as of the Group, the Group Chief Executive is advised by the Group Chairman include leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness Executive Committee, a consultative management committee, whose in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda: ensuring that adequate current members are described elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The time is available for discussion of all agenda items in particular Board has also delegated specific responsibilities for certain matters to strategic issues, ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and Board committees.
The principal Board committees have responsibility clear information: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: for Nomination, Remuneration, Group Audit and Board Risk matters, in promoting a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective line with their respective terms of reference.
The Board receives reports contribution to the Board of non-executive directors in particular: and from these committees on the subjects that they have covered.
The ensuring constructive relationships between the executive and matters addressed by the principal Board committees in 2013 are non-executive directors.
outlined under the heading What are the standing Board Committees and how have they operated during the year?
below and, for the In the absence of exceptional circumstances, non-executive directors Remuneration Committee, in the Directors Remuneration Report.
including the Chairman serve a maximum of nine years in office.
This maximum period of tenure operates on the basis of two three-year While the Board currently includes only two executive directors, all terms, followed by up to three further one-year terms.
The renewal of members of the Board have regular contact with the other senior non-executive directors engagements for successive terms is not executive management including the most senior executives of the main automatic and the continued suitability of each non-executive director business units of the Group through their periodic participation in Board is assessed by the Nomination Committee before renewal of their meetings, other briefing sessions by the senior executives, and Board appointment takes place.
visits to the locations where the Groups main businesses are based.
Paul Hanratty, the Group Operating Officer, is now a standing invitee What did the Board do during 2013?
The Board also receives minutes of the The Chairmans introduction to this section describes some of the main proceedings of the Group Executive Committee, which help to keep it matters that were addressed by the Board during the year.
In addition informed about the discussions that are taking place between the Group to those and the regular updates on the Groups results, the Group Chief Executive and the heads of the Groups main businesses and of Chief Executives report on recent significant developments and major Group central functions such as Risk, Strategy, Customer matters and projects around the Group, and reports from Board committee Human Resources.
chairmen, the following table sets out some more details of the Boards other activities at its scheduled meetings during 2013.
The executive element of the Board is balanced by an independent group of non-executive directors.
The Board as a whole approves the strategic direction of the Group, scrutinises the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and monitors the reporting of performance.
Procedures are in place to enable Board members to satisfy themselves about the integrity of the Groups financial information and to ensure that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and sustainable.
Non-executive directors on the Remuneration Committee are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive directors, other members of the Group Executive Committee and certain other senior employees.
Members of the Nomination Committee have a primary role in recommending the appointment and, where necessary, removal of executive directors.
93 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Date of meeting Location Principal topics covered January 2013 OMSAs and Nedbanks Presentation on strategy, including plans for the Groups South African businesses to work more offices in Sandton, closely together Johannesburg Presentation on the South African businesses compliance status with Black Economic Empowerment imperatives Discussion on the unsecured lending environment in South Africa Annual review and clearance of directors conflicts of interest Feedback by the Senior Independent Director from the annual review of the Chairman Presentation on the social responsibility activities of OMSA, including its Foundation, its Masisizane Funds, its BEE trusts and other initiatives Presentation by the Old Mutual Wealth team of the proposed outsourcing of various parts of its platform infrastructure and on plans for its operations in continental Europe Pre-year-end review of results and the Annual Report and Accounts for 2012 Dinner with high potential employees from OMEM, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal.
February 2013 London Update on strategic projects Report on Group charitable expenditure Review of the preliminary results for 2012 Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2012 Recommendation of the final dividend for 2012 Feedback from the 2012 Board effectiveness review.
May 2013 London Approval of the Q1 Interim Management Statement Feedback from the annual independent survey of investors views on the Group Strategy update.
July 2013 Lagos, Nigeria Presentation of the Groups strategy for East and West Africa see also the separate feature on this meeting below.
August 2013 London Review of the interim results for 2013 Presentations on various new potential strategic initiatives Declaration of the interim dividend for 2013.
September 2013 London Presentation on results of the Groups culture survey for 2013 and Group values Presentation on customer-centricity and the role of the Group Customer and Brand function Update on various strategic initiatives Approval for a proposed reduction in Group-level debt executed during November.
November 2013 London and by telephone Approval of the Q3 Interim Management Statement.
December 2013 OMSAs and Nedbanks External presentation on progress made by South Africa during two decades of democracy offices in Cape Town Presentations by OMSA, Old Mutual Investment Group.
Nedbank and the Property & Casualty business unit on their respective business and strategy plans for 2014 2016 Review and approval of the draft Group business plan for 2014 2016 Update on various strategic initiatives Short briefings on financial education and customer engagement initiatives at OMEM and Nedbank, including current advertising campaigns on television and radio: the joBerg2c mountain cycle event and Two Oceans Marathon sponsored by OMEM: the Nedbank Soccer Cup and Ke Yona team search: the Nedbank branch of the future: the 22 7 digital proposition: and Nedbanks Social Media Listening Centre Annual review of Board Committee memberships Feedback from the Boards participation in the Barrett Values Survey Dinner with around 70 of the most senior executive management personnel from OMEM and the Property & Casualty business unit.
Old Mutual plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance How are people selected to join the Board?
During the Boards visit to Lagos in July 2013, the Board received Plans for refreshing and renewing the Boards composition are presentations and participated in discussions on: managed by the Nomination Committee so as to ensure that changes take place without undue disruption and that there is an appropriate The macro-economic situation in Nigeria, as described by balance of experience and length of service.
This committee also a local economist considers, in making recommendations, the independence of Opportunities for the Group in the rest of Africa, particularly candidates and their suitability and willingness to serve on other West and East Africa, as seen both from a Group strategy and committees of the Board.
The current Board composition is considered local African perspective by the Nomination Committee to be suitable for the requirements of the Opportunities in Nigeria, as viewed by a leading international Groups business.
However, such matters are kept under active review, accountancy firm having regard to scheduled retirements of non-executive directors and Informal views about the country by a correspondent with the the Groups future strategy.
Further details are contained in the section BBC who had returned to Nigeria after some years in the UK of this report below dealing with the activities of the Nomination Committee during 2013.
Feedback by Sue Kean, the Chief Risk Officer, from a meeting she had with the Nigerian insurance regulator in Abuja.
The terms and conditions of engagement of each of the non-executive directors are available on the Companys website.
These include details On the evening of 2 July, the Board joined management of of the expected time commitment involved which each of the nonOld Mutual Nigeria at a social event attended by a large executive directors has accepted.
Other significant commitments of number of participants in the local financial services industry, potential appointees are considered by the Nomination Committee as which provided a very useful networking opportunity.
part of the selection process and are disclosed to the Board when We were grateful to MTN, whose local Chairman and Group recommendation of an appointment is submitted.
Non-executive Executive team kindly met with two groups from the Board to directors are also required to inform the Board of any subsequent provide an insight into the various challenges that their business changes to such commitments, which must be pre-cleared with the had faced and overcome in establishing itself in Nigeria.
Commenting on the visit afterwards, Julian Roberts, Group Chief Are the non-executive directors independent?
Executive, said: Driving through Lagos, I was struck by the number Eight of the nine current non-executive directors other than the of global consumer brands which have set up business there.
This Chairman Mike Arnold, Zoe Cruz, Alan Gillespie, Danuta Gray, Adiba evidences an emerging middle class which is aspirational and has Ighodaro, Roger Marshall, Nkosana Moyo and Nku Nyembezi-Heita money to spend, and this group is the opportunity we want to capture are considered by the Board to be independent within the criteria set in that market.
I do believe its a great market for us to be in, although, out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, ie.
they are independent in clearly, it is going to take us quite a bit of time to build scale.
character and judgement and have no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The other non-executive director, Reuel Khoza, is not considered independent because of his chairmanship of the Groups majorityThe last  review took place through IDDAS in 2011. owned subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, and the business The review for 2013 was conducted through an online questionnaire relationships between Aka Capital, in which he owns a stake, whose contents were co-ordinated with the two previous years results and Nedbank.
so as to track progress against these: this was also supplemented by a series of thorough one-to-one interviews with each member of the Who is your Senior Independent Director?
Board carried out by the Group HR Director.
The results were collated Alan Gillespie has been the Senior Independent Director since May and reported back to a session of the Nomination Committee which all 2011.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders other members of the Board also attended at the end of January 2014. if they have concerns that are unresolved after contact through the The Board Risk Committee also conducted a separate internallynormal channels of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group facilitated review of its effectiveness during the year to evaluate its Finance Director or where such contact would not be appropriate.
effectiveness as a relatively newly established committee.
The Senior Independent Directors contact details can be obtained from the Group Company Secretary: martin.
The reviews concluded that: How is performance of the Board and its committees The Board and its committees had operated satisfactorily during the reviewed?
year, with a generally appropriate mix of skills represented on each A review of the performance of the Board including its standing of them and good levels of information and discussion, well led by committees is conducted on an annual basis.
These reviews are now their respective chairmen carried out by an external expert at least every three years in line with More time should be spent during 2014 on talent management and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The review is designed to succession planning.
Efforts should also be made to get to know address the balance of skills, experience, independence and subsidiary boards and committees better.
Available Board and knowledge of the Groups businesses on the Board and its committees, committee time should be marshalled in such a way as to make best the Boards diversity including gender, how the Board and its use of it, and the Chairman should provide more detailed guidance committees work together as a unit, and other factors relevant to on the Companys expectations of non-executive directors outside their effectiveness.
Board meetings 95 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued The separate review conducted by the Board Risk Committee Old Mutual plc Nedbank Number of Group Limited concluded that additional tailored training was desirable in At 31 December 2012 ordinary shares Number of order to improve the engagement and contribution of all 3 or date of appointment if later of 11 7p each shares committee members.
Mike Arnold 11,134 1 Philip Broadley 513,434 Who will be standing for re-election at this years AGM?
All of the continuing directors except for Philip Broadley, who will be Alan Gillespie retiring from the Board as Group Finance Director during 2014 will Danuta Gray appointed from 1 March 2013 stand for election or re-election at the 2014 AGM.
The Board recommends that they each be elected or re-elected as directors at the Reuel Khoza 14,774 AGM.
Biographical details of all of the directors are contained in the Roger Marshall 45,000 Board of Directors section of this Annual Report and further details of Nkosana Moyo the basis upon which the Board has assessed the performance, and appointed from 1 September 2013 10,000 recommends the election or re-election of the directors concerned are Nku Nyembezi-Heita set out in the explanatory notes in the AGM circular.
Patrick OSullivan 91,319 1 Julian Roberts 1,385,889 Are directors required to hold shares in the Company and what are their current interests?
Former directors The Remuneration Committee has established guidelines on Eva Castillo resigned on 28 February 2013 shareholdings by executive directors of the Company.
Under these, the Russell Edey retired on 9 May 2013 21,875 2,604 Group Chief Executive is expected to build up a holding of shares in the Lars Otterbeck retired on 9 May 2013 Company equal in value to at least 200% of his annual base salary Bongani Nqwababa within five years of appointment: the equivalent figure for other executive resigned on 6 January 2014 directors is 150% of their annual base salary.
Both Julian Roberts and Philip Broadley are currently fully compliant with these guidelines.
The 1 These figures do not include rights to forfeitable shares that have not yet vested, Board has considered whether to adopt a shareholding requirement which are described in the Directors Remuneration Report for non-executive directors, but does not consider this to be appropriate.
How are directors conflicts of interest managed?
Details of the directors interests including interests of their connected Processes are in place for any potential conflicts of interest to be persons in the share capital of the Company and its quoted subsidiary, disclosed and for directors to avoid participation in any decisions Nedbank Group Limited, at the beginning and end of the year under where they may have any such conflict or potential conflict.
The review are set out in the following tables, while their interests in share Companys procedures for dealing with directors conflicts of interest options and forfeitable shares awards are described in the section of the continued to operate effectively during 2013.
Directors Remuneration Report entitled Directors shareholdings and share interests.
There have been no changes to any of the interests in the No director had a material interest in any significant contract with the first table below between 31 December 2013 and 28 February 2014.
Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Additional details of various non-material transactions between the directors and the Group Old Mutual plc Nedbank Number Group are reported on an aggregated basis, along with other transactions by of ordinary Limited senior managers of the Group, in Note H3 to the Accounts.
3 shares of 11 7p Number At 31 December 2013 each of shares The executive directors are permitted to hold and retain, for their own Mike Arnold 11,134 benefit, fees from one external non-Group non-executive directorship 1 Philip Broadley 513,434 but not a chairmanship of another listed company, subject to prior Alan Gillespie clearance by the Board and the directorship concerned not being in Danuta Gray conflict or potential conflict with any of the Groups businesses.
Neither Reuel Khoza 14,774 Julian Roberts nor Philip Broadley currently holds any external Roger Marshall 45,000 non-executive directorships of other publicly quoted companies.
Nkosana Moyo 10,000 Nku Nyembezi-Heita Patrick OSullivan 91,319 1 Julian Roberts 1,965,397 Former director Bongani Nqwababa resigned 6 January 2014 Neither Zoe Cruz nor Adiba Ighodaro who were appointed to the Board on 6 January 2014 had any interests in the Companys or its listed subsidiaries shares at their date of appointment.
Old Mutual plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Loan loss provisions at Nedbank and Old Mutual Finance, What are the standing Board Committees and how particularly in relation to unsecured loans.
At 31 December 2013, have they operated during the year?
the Groups unsecured advances totalled 1,664 million, with related The Board has a number of committees to which various matters are provisions of 232 million 2012: 2,080 million and 238 million.
delegated in accordance with their respective terms of reference.
The During the year the committee reviewed the provisioning Board also establishes committees on an ad hoc basis to deal with methodologies in use at both companies and was satisfied particular matters.
In doing so, it specifies a remit, quorum and that they were appropriate appropriate mix of executive and non-executive participation.
Further Impairment of the carrying value of goodwill see Note F1 to the information on the principal standing committees of the Board is set Accounts.
The committee reviewed the assumptions used to justify no out below.
material impairment to goodwill this year and was comfortable with them.
In particular, we reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles relating to the Old Mutual Wealth business of 1,461 million at 31 December 2013 2012: 1,594 million, taking into account that certain countries are operating a closed book model, and the announcement of the disposal of the business in Poland.
The committee agreed that the projected future cash flows from the businesses supported the current carrying value of these intangibles.
The Company makes a number of adjustments to IFRS income to arrive R R R Rog og og oge e e er r r r M M M Mar ar ar ars s s sh h h hal al al all l l l at an Adjusted Operating Profit.
Some reflect IFRS requirements not C Ch ha ai ir rm ma an o n of t f th he G e Gr ro ou up p valued by users, such as recognising gains or losses on own debt.
Others Au Aud di it t Committee seek to arrive at more normalised profit by for example substituting a long-term investment return for actual investment returns for the year.
The committee reviews and agrees the long-term investment return Group Audit Committee annually.
This year we discussed in particular the proposal to exclude Members during 2013 and dates of appointment to the the significant Old Mutual Wealth restructuring costs related to the committee or its predecessor committee, the Group Audit proposed outsourcing of certain administrative activities to and Risk Committee : Roger Marshall Chairman 2010, International Financial Data Services from Adjusted Operating Mike Arnold 2009, Bongani Nqwababa 2007, Profit and reviewed how peers dealt with similar items.
Whilst the Alan Gillespie 2010, Danuta Gray 2013.
Secretary committee accepts the proposed Adjusted Operating Profit treatment, and date of appointment: Martin Murray 1999. it has made recommendations to the Remuneration Committee about Roger Marshall has submitted the following report on behalf of the how the expected restructuring benefits should be monitored for Group Audit Committee: remuneration purposes.
The committee met six times during 2013.
In this report I comment I mentioned in my 2012 report that the committee had discussed the on the key issues we considered over the last 12 months.
results of an external effectiveness review of Internal Audit and agreed an action plan.
The review had concluded that Internal Audit was The committee considers that the most significant areas of judgement effective, but that change was needed for it to operate at best practice in preparing the 2013 accounts were: levels in all areas.
During 2013 a committee, which I chaired, sponsored The level of explicit discretionary reserves in Old Mutual South by the Institute of Internal Auditors made recommendations for improving Africas financial statements.
In accordance with South African internal audit of financial services companies.
The Group Audit actuarial practice, insurance liabilities continue to be calculated on Committee reviewed a gap analysis comparing the Companys internal a prudent basis, including discretionary reserves.
At 31 December audit arrangements with the recommendations in that report and 2013, the Group recognised explicit discretionary margins of agreed appropriate changes to our arrangements.
Key changes were: 489 million or 1.9% of technical liabilities 2012: 556 million: 1.9%.
A change in the Internal Audit Directors executive reporting line from The committee approved a revised policy for creating and releasing the Group Finance Director to the Group Chief Executive these reserves as well as reviewing and agreeing the composition of Whilst Internal Audits scope was not previously limited, it was agreed and rationale for these explicit discretionary reserves.
A significant that the team should spend more time in areas where they had not portion of the Groups explicit discretionary margins relates to previously been involved.
As an early example of this, I asked uncertainty around mortality assumptions for HIV in South Africa Internal Audit to examine managements risk mitigation plans in The appropriate level of tax provisions, particularly in South Africa.
relation to Old Mutual Wealths outsourcing project before this The nature of the South African assessment process and complexity project was finally agreed.
We have also asked Internal Audit to of our businesses there means that specific areas of tax computation report to us on managements attitude to controls as well as the can remain open for a number of years after filing.
was made during 2013 in closing outstanding computations, a number of issues remain under discussion with the tax authorities.
We agreed a revised Group Internal Audit Charter reflecting the The committee discussed the individual matters and the changes, which is available on the Companys website.
corresponding provisions with both subsidiary management and the external auditors.
We are satisfied with the amounts carried in the accounts 97 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued During 2013, we discussed the recommendations of the Financial Reporting Council of which I am a director for the external audit to be tendered.
We also took into account UK Competition Commission regulation and pending European legislation, and increased market comment on the subject.
Following these discussions, we have determined that it will be appropriate to conduct a tender of the Groups audit engagement during 2014.
The tender will be in respect of appointment to the role of Group auditor for the year ending M M M Mi i i ik k k ke e e e A A A Ar r r rn n n nold old old old 31 December 2016.
C Ch ha ai ir rm ma an o n of t f th he B e Bo oa ar rd d R Risk isk C Co om mm mit itt te ee e Initial analysis suggests that independence considerations and potential conflicts of interests will limit the number of firms which will be involved in the tender.
The Groups audit has not previously been tendered since Board Risk Committee the Company became a listed entity in 1999.
Members during 2013 and years of appointment to the We are yet to finalise the criteria against which we will assess potential committee: Mike Arnold Chairman 2010, Philip Broadley candidates, but these are likely to include: 2010, Reuel Khoza 2010, Roger Marshall 2010, Nkosana Moyo 2013, Nku Nyembezi-Heita 2013.
Other Financial services experience and extent of in-house actuarial resource members: until February 2013, Eva Castillo: until May 2013, Experience of listed and multiple-listed entity audits Lars Otterbeck.
Presence in the significant markets in which we operate Mike Arnold has submitted the following report on behalf of the Board Proposed approach to the audit and expertise of the proposed team Risk Committee: Proposed fees.
The committee met six times during the year, of which two meetings We would welcome shareholder input on this matter, in particular on were held in addition to the four meetings originally scheduled.
The the proposed criteria, and this can be provided by contacting the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Internal Audit Director attended each Secretary to the committee, martin.
meeting and the Group Chief Actuary attended five of the meetings.
In the meantime, we reviewed the effectiveness of our current auditors, The external auditors were invited to attend all of the meetings.
KPMG, during the year and continued to be satisfied with the quality The committee received a report at each of its scheduled meetings of the audit.
We routinely review the performance of the external during 2013 from the Chief Risk Officer in which any changes to the auditors annually.
The review in 2013 was conducted in advance of Groups risk profile were identified and discussed.
We also reviewed that years AGM and informed our recommendation to reappoint the the risk appetite metrics operated by the Group and recommended to incumbent.
This review analysed critical competencies expected of our the Board some changes to the criteria to be used by the business units external auditors and was performed by the Internal Audit function.
for their business planning over the three-year period 2014 to 2016.
Interviews with, and the responses to questionnaires by, key finance personnel from Group and subsidiary entities and committee members During the year the committee devoted significant time to the risks are central to the assessment process.
We have strict controls over the involved in the outsourcing to International Financial Data Services scope and amount of non-audit services provided by the audit firm see IFDS of many of Old Mutual Wealths administrative functions, prior to Who are the Group Auditors and how much are they paid?
below the entry into the outsourcing arrangements in August 2013.
One of the and are satisfied that they remain independent.
committees sessions to consider the proposed IFDS outsourcing was held jointly with the Group Audit Committee.
I would be happy to discuss the contents of this report, and the activities of the committee, with individual shareholders.
In addition, during our meetings in 2013, we focused on: The Groups Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA, under which the Group assesses its risks and compares them to the resources available, both in terms of regulatory solvency and the Groups own capital and risk metrics.
The annual production of the ORSA will be a regulatory requirement once the Solvency II Directive has been implemented Assessments of the Groups capital and solvency position The content and suitability of the Groups suite of risk policies and standards, and of the Group Operating Model The residual financial risks of Old Mutual Bermuda Regulatory risks arising as a result of business activities, in particular the Groups regulatory environment and compliance status Stress and scenario testing, focusing on particular economic and business scenarios and their potential impact on the Groups finances.
Old Mutual plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance In addition to its regular meetings, the committee held a half-day During 2013, the committee focused on refreshing the non-executive workshop to enable a discussion to take place on a wide range of director membership of the Board, seeking to achieve additional issues relating to risk management within the Group and several diversity in terms of geographical background, experience and gender, deep-dive sessions, where the committee considered risk issues subject to any recommended candidates being aligned with the affecting specific business units in more detail.
I also received updates Groups developing strategy and helping to complement the existing between the scheduled meetings through my regular meetings with the skills represented on the Board.
Chief Risk Officer and the Group Chief Actuary.
External search consultancies MWM Consulting and Russell Reynolds In connection with the finalisation of the Groups annual results, the Associates were engaged and a rigorous process followed to draw committee produced a report for the Remuneration Committee up longlists of potential candidates, from which shortlists were commenting on managements observance during the year of the subsequently approved by the committee.
The final candidates risk appetite metrics agreed by the Board.
emerging from these processes were then interviewed by as many members of the Board as possible before final recommendations were As mentioned earlier in this Governance report, the committee also received and endorsed by the committee for submission to the Board undertook a review of its effectiveness including a review of, and for approval.
Three new appointments of independent non-executive the committees performance against, its terms of reference.
The directors resulted from this, Nkosana Moyo in September 2013 and recommendations of the review, which included recommendations Zoe Cruz and Adiba Ighodaro in January 2014.
As the Chairman has on the composition of the committee, relations with subsidiary mentioned in his introductory remarks to this report, Zoe Cruzs committees, training and education, have either already been extensive experience of international financial markets and asset implemented or will be implemented during 2014. management are expected to provide the Board with additional insight into these important areas of the Groups business, while Nkosana During 2013, either Roger Marshall or I personally attended the risk Moyos and Adiba Ighodaros deep knowledge of investing and and audit committees of each of the major subsidiaries of the Group operating in various countries in Africa will widen the Boards ability to and we have ongoing dialogue with the independent directors who evaluate opportunities as the Group pursues its strategy of expanding chair those subsidiaries committees.
I shall continue to attend these further into new territories in Africa.
meetings in 2014 in order to remain close to any major risk issues that may arise during the coming year.
In relation to the use of MWM Consulting and Russell Reynolds Associates as search consultants, both firms were also used by In 2014, in addition to the regular items on the committee agenda, the members of the Group during 2013 in connection with searches for committee will continue with its programme of deep-dive sessions into various senior executive positions.
The committee is satisfied however, individual business units and will be reviewing the Groups proposed that these other engagements did not impair either firms objectivity or economic capital disclosures.
independence in researching and evaluating non-executive candidates Nomination Committee for the Board.
Members during 2013 and dates of appointment to the In addition to its work on refreshing the Board, the committee also committee: Patrick OSullivan Chairman 2010, Mike Arnold continued during the year to monitor succession plans for the executive 2010, Danuta Gray 2013, Alan Gillespie 2010, Reuel directors and other members of the Group Executive Committee, Khoza 2010, Roger Marshall 2010, Nkosana Moyo 2013, significant developments affecting other senior executives and major Bongani Nqwababa 2010, Nku Nyembezi-Heita 2013, subsidiary boards, talent management and diversity initiatives and Julian Roberts 2008.
Other members during the year: Eva progress against action items identified as part of the 2012 Board Castillo 2011 to February 2013 Russell Edey 2005 to May effectiveness review.
Secretary and date of appointment: Martin Murray 1999.
Remuneration Committee A full description of the membership and role of the Remuneration The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board in Committee and of its activities during 2013 is contained in the Directors relation to the appointment of directors, the structure of the Board and Remuneration Report.
membership of the Boards main standing committees.
It also reviews development and succession plans for the most senior executive Other committees management of the Group and certain appointments to the boards There are a number of executive committees which assist the Group and standing committees of principal subsidiaries in line with the Chief Executive with the day-to-day management of the Group.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, include the Group Executive Committee mentioned earlier in this report, Patrick OSullivan, and a majority of its members are independent the Group Executive Risk Committee, whose responsibilities are non-executive directors.
described in the Risk and Capital Management report earlier in this document: and the Group Capital Management Committee, whose The committee seeks to ensure that its process for identifying candidates role is, among other things, to agree capital allocations within certain for recommendation to the Board as new directors is formal, rigorous limits or make recommendations to the Board regarding any and transparent.
Vacancies generally arise in the context of either planned allocations beyond such limits and to approve the capital plan of the renewal of the Board, replacing directors who are due to retire, or Group as part of the annual business-planning process.
adjusting the Boards balance of knowledge, skills, independence or diversity.
In identifying candidates, appropriate regard is paid to ensuring that they will have sufficient time available in the light of their other commitments to discharge their duties as directors of the Company.
99 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued What was the Boards attendance record during 2013?
The table below sets out the number of meetings held and individual directors attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal committees based on membership of those committees, rather than attendance as an invitee during 2013.
Board scheduled Group Audit Board Risk Remuneration Nomination Attendance record and ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 10 6 6 6 7 Mike Arnold 10 10 6 6 6 6 7 7 Philip Broadley 10 10 5 6 Alan Gillespie 9 10 6 6 6 6 6 7 Danuta Gray 8 8 4 4 4 4 5 5 Reuel Khoza 10 10 6 6 5 7 Roger Marshall 9 10 6 6 6 6 3 3 7 7 Nkosana Moyo 3 3 3 3 2 3 Nku Nyembezi-Heita 10 10 5 5 5 5 Patrick OSullivan 10 10 7 7 Julian Roberts 10 10 7 7 Former directors 1 Eva Castillo 0 2 0 1 0 2 0 2 Russell Edey 3 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 Lars Otterbeck 4 4 2 2 3 3 3 3 Bongani Nqwababa resigned 6 January 2014 10 10 6 6 6 6 7 7 1 Eva Castillo missed a number of Board and Committee meetings at the start of 2013 because of conflicting executive commitments in her new role as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Telefnica Europe.
These other commitments led to her resigning from the Board with effect from 28 February 2013.
KPMG have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors Who are the Companys auditors and how much are to the Company.
However, as part of their intention to wind down the they paid?
activity in the registered firm, KPMG Audit Plc, it is proposed that an KPMG Audit Plc have been the Companys auditors since the Company intermediate parent, KPMG LLP, will be appointed in their stead for was originally listed in 1999.
Arrangements have been made, in 2014.
Following a recommendation by the Group Audit Committee to conjunction with KPMG Audit Plc, for appropriate audit director rotation the Board, a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP as in accordance with the requirements of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
auditors for 2014 will be put to the AGM in May 2014.
The current audit engagement director in the UK, Philip Smart, assumed this role in April 2011.
What is the Companys internal control environment?
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the The Group Audit Committee regularly keeps under review the question significant risks faced by the Group has been in place for the year of whether to put the Companys audit engagement out to tender and ended 31 December 2013 and up to the date of approval of this Report.
takes into account the results of an internal report on satisfaction with The process accords with the Turnbull guidance set out in Internal the prior years audit processes, as well as benchmarking data, in doing Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the this.
The Company has not entered into any contractual restriction Combined Code being the previous version of what is now the UK preventing it from considering a change of auditors.
Based upon a review Corporate Governance Code and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
of and feedback from the 2012 audit, the Group Audit Committee remains satisfied with KPMG Audit Plcs performance and did not feel it How is internal control monitored and reviewed?
was necessary or appropriate to consider a tender for the 2013 or 2014 The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal audit engagement.
See also the comments about audit tender in the control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the implementation of report by the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee above.
internal control systems is the responsibility of management.
Executive management has implemented an internal control system designed to During the year ended 31 December 2013, fees paid by the Group help ensure: to KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups auditors, and its associates totalled 12.0 million for audit services 2012: 12.4 million and 2.8 million The effective and efficient operation of the Group and its business for tax, assurance and other non-audit services 2012: 5.1 million.
units by enabling management to respond appropriately to In addition to the above, Nedbank Group paid a further 3.7 million significant risks to achieving the Groups business objectives 2012: 4.2 million to Deloitte in respect of joint audit arrangements.
The safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use or from loss and Detailed guidelines have been approved by the Group Audit Committee fraud and ensuring that liabilities are identified and managed as part of the Groups policy on non-audit services and a summary of The quality of internal and external reporting the applicable provisions can be found in the Corporate Governance Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and with internal section of our website.
policies on the conduct of business.
Old Mutual plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than determined by a comprehensive, risk-based planning process.
The eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups business objectives, Group Audit Committee approves the annual internal audit plan and and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against any subsequent material amendments to it and also satisfies itself that material misstatement or loss.
GIA has adequate resources to discharge its function which the Board is able to confirm is the case for 2013 2014.
The Groups actions to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include: There are internal audit teams located in each of our major businesses.
The heads of internal audit in the Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries An annual review of the risk assessment procedures, control report directly to the Group Internal Audit Director GIAD.
environment considerations, information and communication and monitoring procedures at Group level and within each business unit.
During 2013, the GIAD reported functionally to the Chairman of the This review covers all material controls, including financial, operational Group Audit Committee and administratively to the Group Finance and compliance controls and risk management systems Director.
His administrative reporting line changed to the Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 January 2014 in line with recommendations A certification process, under which all business units are required to made in July 2013 by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors CIIA confirm that they have undertaken risk management in accordance for more effective internal audit in UK financial services organisations.
with the Group risk framework, that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, that internal policies The GIAD attends all meetings of the Group Audit Committee, and has have been complied with, and that no significant risks or issues are unrestricted access to the Group Chief Executive and to the Chairman known which have not been reported in accordance with policy of the Board, as well as open invitations to attend any meetings of the Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the system of internal control business unit Audit Committees, the Board Risk Committee and the by the Group Audit Committee, which receives reports from Group Group Executive Risk Committee.
The committee also receives reports from the external Internal audit teams across Old Mutual use a single audit methodology auditors, which include details of significant internal control matters which meets the standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Issues that they have identified during the course of their work.
raised by internal audit during the course of its work are discussed with These activities are in addition to the regular risk management activities management, who are responsible for implementing agreed actions to which are performed on an ongoing basis as described in more detail address the issues identified within an appropriate and agreed timeframe.
in the Risk and Capital Management section elsewhere in this document.
Formal reports are submitted by the GIAD to each meeting of the The certification process described above does not apply to certain Group Audit Committee, summarising the results of internal audit joint ventures where the Group does not exercise full management activity, managements progress in addressing issues and other control.
In these cases, Old Mutual monitors the internal control significant matters.
environment and the potential impact on the Group through An assessment of the effectiveness of GIA is carried out periodically by representation on the board of the entity concerned.
The most recent assessment was carried out in the The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control second half of 2012 and concluded that GIA was fit for purpose in during and at the end of the year.
Our annual internal control assessment meeting the current assurance needs of the Group.
The Committee on has not highlighted any material failings.
We remain committed to Internal Audit Guidance for Financial Services, which is chaired by the having a robust internal control environment across the Group.
Group Audit Committee Chairman of Old Mutual plc, published its final recommendations in July 2013.
GIA has analysed current What steps are you taking to monitor the quality of the performance against each of the recommendations contained in the Groups financial controls?
Guidance and has developed an action plan to be implemented during Since 2009, Old Mutual has implemented a group-wide framework of 2014 to close the gaps which the Group Audit Committee perceives financial controls.
This has been designed on the basis of the criteria need to be addressed.
described in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of Treadway Commission.
How does the Company conduct its relations with Management reports periodically on the effectiveness of the financial shareholders and analysts?
controls framework to the Group Audit Committee and also assessed The Group places great importance on the quality and frequency of its effectiveness at 31 December 2013, concluding that it was effective.
its direct communication with its retail shareholders, debt and equity This has assisted the Group Audit Committee and the Board in institutional investors and sell-side analysts by means of a proactive concluding that it can rely upon the operation of these controls as part Investor Relations IR programme.
As a result of being both a listed of its review of internal control effectiveness referred to above.
entity and a major institutional investor allocating capital on behalf of clients and on its own account, the Group considers that it should lead What is the role of Group Internal Audit?
by example and actively promote the success of the Group over the Group Internal Audit GIA is responsible for providing independent, long term and be seen to be doing so across its operating markets.
objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of Old Mutuals systems of governance, risk management and internal control to the The objective of the IR programme is to facilitate communication with Board and executive management and, in doing so, helps enhance the the global investment community, in both the equity and debt asset controls culture within the Group.
The work of GIA is focused on the classes, and to keep investors updated on the Groups performance areas of greatest risk, both current and emerging, to Old Mutual as in accordance with the UK Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and 101 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Transparency Rules.
The IR team also participates in programmes to The following are the major IR educational events that we have identify best international IR practice and to promote such practice organised over the last two years: actively to its investor base.
May 2012 Presentation to investors and analysts on The Group has a small, dedicated IR team based in South Africa and Old Mutual Asset Management London which runs the Groups international IR programme.
The team October 2012 Investor presentation on Old Mutual Wealth consists of experienced capital market professionals as well as finance in London professionals who have transferred from other parts of Old Mutual.
The team works closely with the media relations, responsible business October 2012 Investor field trip to South Africa and public affairs teams of the Group and businesses units, and reports November 2012 OMEM roadshow in London to the Director of External Communications.
Old Mutuals investor base is very diverse in terms of both investor style and geographic location November 2012 Old Mutual Wealth roadshow in South Africa and the Group has over 400,000 retail shareholders.
April 2013 Briefing with SA Finance Minister, London The focus of our IR strategy during 2013 has been particularly to June 2013 Sell-side analyst meeting on economic highlight the Groups plans for expansion across its emerging markets capital calculations businesses, where it plans to deploy significant amounts of Group capital in the medium term.
It has also allocated significant December 2013 Three-day emerging markets businesses showcase management resources in targeting international investors whose in Cape Town, South Africa mandates have an investment philosophy and horizon that most closely aligns with the Groups strategy.
This is designed to lower the Groups The table below shows the five-year track record of improving the cost of capital and is consistent with the macro trends in investment Groups relationship with buy-side analysts and investors from around markets whereby domestic-only mandates are moving increasingly the world.
global and sell-side coverage moving away from a domestic 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 orientation only.
Total number of events 273 284 265 225 207 The Group continues to improve further its dialogue with investors Total with executives 208 197 203 152 185 and sell-side analysts, providing them with briefings and educational support, so as to enable them to obtain a better understanding of the During 2013, IR meetings were held with investors in the UK, South Groups operations.
We increased our communication and engagement Africa, North America and continental Europe, involving 219 individual with the investment community, attending 14 investment conferences institutions.
The majority of meetings involved the Group Chief during the year, in the US, Europe and South Africa 11 in 2012.
The Executive, the Group Finance Director or another member of the senior Group conducted a number of investor presentations during the year management team, although greater use was made of group meetings for investors willing to travel to London, Cape Town and Johannesburg.
in order to improve efficiency and provide more institutions with access The most extensive of these was a three-day session in Cape Town to management and also to increase the efficient use of managements covering the Groups emerging markets business.
Following an intense period of contact with sell-side analysts attended by 130 people, including international investors and in 2012, we refined our approach to one of structured interaction.
journalists, and covered banking, life and savings, property and We have held regular sessions for senior management to meet with casualty and asset management operations with presentations, panel the sell-side analysts both in Europe and in South Africa.
sessions, videos and branch visits.
The event was webcast live and a Currently 17 sell-side analysts from Europe and South Africa actively recording is available on the Groups website together with videos publish research on the Company.
Sell-side analysts are encouraged to covering the major country operations as well as an edited summary cover the Company to provide their opinion to investors on the Groups of the event.
valuation, its performance and the business environment in which it During 2013, we continued to target smaller institutional investors and operates, and also to make meaningful comparisons with peers.
those who manage funds for high net worth retail clients and charities During the year, two new research analysts initiated coverage on the in both Europe and South Africa with a view to further diversifying the stock, one based in the UK and one with dual coverage from the UK Companys shareholder base.
We anticipate further sell-side coverage to be initiated during 2014 from global investment banks and brokerages.
The IR team also supported the execution of the Groups corporate actions, including the acquisitions made in East and West Africa and the completion of the Groups debt repayment programme.
Old Mutual plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Shown below is the Groups share register split across geography Each substantially separate issue at the AGM is dealt with by a separate and by nature of holder, which has remained stable since 2012. resolution and the business of the AGM always includes a resolution relating to the receipt and adoption of the Report and Accounts.
2012 The chairmen of the Group Audit, Board Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available at the AGM to answer any US including Canada 10% questions on the matters covered by those committees.
UK 17% The notice of AGM is sent out to those shareholders who have elected or South Africa institutional 33% are entitled to receive physical documents in time to arrive in the ordinary South Africa retail, policy course of the post at least 20 working days before the date of the meeting.
and BEE holders 13% Europe and Has the Company granted indemnities to its directors?
Rest of the World 21% The Company has entered into formal deeds of indemnity in favour Miscellaneous 6% of each of the directors.
A specimen copy of the indemnities is available in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys website.
Where can I find a description of the Companys 2013 approach to environmental matters?
US including Canada 10% A description of the Groups environmental impact and management during the year is contained in our Responsible Business Report for UK 18% 2013, which is available on our website.
South Africa institutional 33% South Africa retail, policy Information about the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is contained and BEE holders 12% in the Responsible Business section of this Annual Report.
Europe and What are the Groups employment and gender Rest of the World 22% diversity policies?
Miscellaneous 5% The Groups employment policies reflect our belief that motivated and talented individuals are critical to our ability to achieve our business objectives.
We recognise the value that a diverse workforce brings and The Chairman makes contact with major investors and meets them as believe that it should reflect the diversity of the markets in which we required.
The Senior Independent Director is also available for operate.
We promote the fair and consistent treatment of all our interaction with shareholders.
employees and encourage equal opportunities and diversity across The Board is updated regularly by the IR team on issues arising from the Group.
communications with the investment community.
In addition to this, Each business is required to develop an environment where the benefits independent surveys are regularly commissioned to provide the Board of equal opportunities and diversity are promoted.
Specifically with the views of major investors on the Companys management recruitment, promotion, selection for training and any other aspects of and performance.
employee management must be free from discrimination including on Copies of all investor presentations and, where appropriate, transcripts grounds of gender, race, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation are posted on the Companys website so that they are accessible to and religious belief.
For the business units in South Africa this must be shareholders generally.
balanced with their requirements under Black Economic Empowerment.
When are Annual General Meetings AGMs held?
Old Mutual supports diversity in its broadest sense.
Succession for The Board uses the AGM, which is held at the Companys head office Board members is based on objective criteria to ensure that we have in London in May each year, to comment on the Groups trading the correct mix of skills, experience and knowledge to reflect the performance during the first quarter.
Shareholders also have the customers and communities we serve and aim to serve.
opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
The AGM is webcast and We are pleased to report that recent Board changes have resulted a record of the proceedings is also made available on the Companys in the Board exceeding its previously stated objectives of having two website shortly after the end of the meeting.
All items of formal business female members by the end of 2013 and three by the end of 2015. at the AGM are conducted on a poll, rather than by a show of hands.
The appointments of Zoe Cruz and Adiba Ighodaro in January 2014 The Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services, ensure take female membership of our Board to 33% four out of 12. that all validly submitted proxy votes are counted, and a senior member of Computershares staff acts as scrutineer to ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
103 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued We have 9% female membership of the Group Executive Committee How many shares are in issue?
and 15% in our Key Roles which comprise approximately the top 120 The Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2013 was executive positions around the Group.
The Key Roles figure represents 559,687,749.03 divided into 4,897,267,804 ordinary shares of 3 an increase from 13% in 2012.
It remains our aspiration to achieve a high 11 7 pence each 2012: 559,214,849.60 divided into 4,893,129,934 3 level of diversity throughout our businesses and specifically to build a ordinary shares of 11 7 pence each.
The total number of voting rights pipeline of female talent to improve our gender balance.
To help us to in the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 31 December 2013 achieve this, we will during 2014: was also 4,897,267,804.
Launch an internal mentor programme where each Group Executive 3 During 2013, 4,137,870 ordinary shares of 11 pence each were issued 7 Committee member mentors a high potential woman under employee share schemes at an average price of 0.827 each.
Continue to participate in the FTSE100 cross-company At 31 December 2013, shareholder authorities were in force enabling mentoring programme the Company to make market purchases of, and or to purchase Extend the Chairmanand Group Chief Executive-sponsored pursuant to contingent purchase contracts relating to each of the Womens Network which is an employee-led forum providing an overseas exchanges on which the Companys shares are listed, its own opportunity for employees at all levels to share skills and experiences shares up to an aggregate of 489,334,000 shares.
No shares were about achieving business success, as well as building an in-house bought back by the Company during 2013 or during the period up to support structure to all business units 28 February 2014.
Promote and fund attendance at womens leadership programmes at premier business schools In the period 1 January to 28 February 2014, 151,268 further shares were issued by the Company under its employee share schemes at an Encourage our businesses to seek innovative ways to attract average price of 0.394 each.
No shares were bought back during that female talent.
As a result, the Companys issued share capital at 28 February To ensure we can monitor our success, we have established the 2014 was 559,705,036.80 divided into 4,897,419,072 ordinary shares 3 following gender diversity goals for 2018 for our leadership groups: of 11 7 pence each.
The total number of voting rights at that date was also 4,897,419,072.
2013 Actual 2018 Target Board 33% at Jan 2014 More than 30% How can I find out about the rights and obligations Key Roles 15% 30% attaching to the Companys shares?
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares In South Africa, OMSA and Nedbank have retained their Level 2 status are those conventional for a publicly listed UK company, and a under the B-BBEE as measured under the Financial Sector Code.
summary of them along with certain other information relating to dividends, directors and amendments to the Companys Articles of Did you make any political donations during 2013?
Association is available in the Corporate Governance section of the The Group made no EU or other political donations during the year.
The Companys current Articles of Association are also available there.
What final dividend is being recommended and what is your dividend policy?
Does the Company have any significant agreements The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2013 of 6.0p per share involving change of control?
or its equivalent in other applicable currencies.
This equates to 2.27 The following significant agreement to which the Company is a party times IFRS AOP earnings cover.
A scrip dividend alternative is not being contains provisions entitling counterparties to exercise termination or made available in relation to this dividend and it will be settled entirely other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: in cash.
1,200 million subsequently reduced to 800 million Revolving Further information on the final dividend for 2013 is contained in the Credit Facility the Facility dated 21 April 2011 between the Shareholder Information section of this document.
Company, various syndicate banks the Banks and Banc of America For future dividends, the Board intends to pursue a progressive Securities Limited as agent the Agent.
If a person or group of dividend policy consistent with our strategy, having regard to overall persons acting in concert gains control of the Company, the Company capital requirements, liquidity and profitability, and targeting a must notify the Agent.
The Agent and the Company will negotiate dividend cover of between 2 and 2.25 times IFRS AOP earnings.
with a view to agreeing terms and conditions acceptable to the Interim dividends will continue to be set at about 30% of the prior Company and all of the Banks for continuing the Facility.
If such years full ordinary dividend.
negotiations fail within 30 days of the original notification to the Agent by the Company, the Banks become entitled to declare any outstanding indebtedness repayable by giving notice to the Agent within 15 days of the 30-day period mentioned above.
On receiving notice for payment from the Agent, the Company shall pay the outstanding sums within three business days to the relevant Bank s. Old Mutual plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Who are the Companys largest shareholders?
How did the Board go about approving this At 31 December 2013, the following substantial interests in voting rights Annual Report?
had been declared to the Company in accordance with the Disclosure The Board approved this Annual Report at its meeting at the end of and Transparency Rules: February 2014, when it confirmed that it considered the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 31 Dec 2013 % of Number of voting understandable and to provide the information necessary for voting rights rights shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model Cevian Capital 359,405,008 7.34 and strategy.
In reaching this conclusion, it took into account input from Public Investment Corporation of the the Group Audit, Remuneration and Board Risk Committees, which had Republic of South Africa 268,811,081 5.49 previously had the opportunity to review and comment on drafts of the BlackRock Inc 241,406,155 4.93 sections falling within their respective remits.
Sanlam Investment Management Pty Limited 216,168,105 4.41 Governing law The sections of this Annual Report entitled Strategic report, Business Between 31 December 2013 and 28 February 2014, there have been review, Risk and Capital Management and this Directors Report on no new notifications of disclosable interests by other shareholders and Corporate Governance and other matters, collectively comprise the no notifications of changes to the above interests.
directors report for the purposes of section 463 1 a of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors Remuneration Report contained in this Annual Report is the directors remuneration report for the purposes Can you confirm that the Company is a going concern?
English law governs the disclosures The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect their contained in and liability for the directors report and the directors future development, performance and position in the current economic remuneration report.
climate, are set out in the Strategic report and Business review sections of this Annual Report.
By order of the Board The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review in the Business Martin Murray review section of this Annual Report.
In addition, Note E1 to the Group Company Secretary Accounts includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital solvency risk and liquidity risks and sets out 28 February 2014 details of the principal risks related to financial instrument market risk, credit risk and insurance risks as well as their sensitivities.
The preceding sections of the Annual Report referred to above also explain the basis on which the Group generates and preserves value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group.
The FGD surplus capital and cash flow are stress tested and are within the limits described in the Risk and Capital Management section in order to identify those risks that would threaten the solvency and liquidity of the Group.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is in a strong financial position and is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Board of Directors has a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Has all relevant information been disclosed to the auditors?
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report on Corporate Governance and other matters confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors were aware of that information.
