B2.1 Audit and Compliance Committee continued In respect of taxation services the Committee has considered the services provided and concluded that the understanding of the Group and the industry demonstrated by the advisers make them well placed to meet the Groups needs.
In respect of the corporate finance services, the external auditors rm was selected to provide these services as they were considered to offer the most appropriate skills and experience for the projects concerned in a cost-effective manner.
In respect of the banking licence application, the external auditors rm was appointed after a rigorous process to evaluate their appropriateness for the role, and only after some early work on the project had been placed with an alternative supplier.
Overall the fees paid to the external auditor for non-audit services excluding VAT, were 1,185,000, which is equivalent to 69% of the total fees paid to them.
However 260,000 relates to the banking application, which has now been submitted and a further 75,000 related to projects undertaken in conjunction with third parties where the cost has been recovered from them.
Excluding these items, non-audit fees represent 62% of the total.
Other potential providers were considered and the use of the external auditors rm was approved by the Committee after having received con rmation from the auditor that they had taken speci c steps to protect their independence in accordance with the Auditing Practices Boards Revised Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Internal audit During the year the Committee has considered and approved the Group internal audit plan, which is based on an assessment of the key risks faced by the Group.
It has monitored progress of the internal audit function against that plan, ensuring that the internal audit function has suf cient resource to carry out its duties effectively.
Reports on internal audit work have been received by the Committee and, where necessary appropriate actions have been recommended to the Board.
The results of this work, together with the Committees engagement with the management information of the Group and the executive directors, has enabled them to conclude that the statements given in section B2 relating to the Groups systems of internal control and its management of risk are appropriate.
B2.2 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and all of the non-executive directors, ensuring that a majority of the Committees members are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is convened as required to nominate candidates for membership of the Board, although ultimate responsibility for appointment rests with the Board.
The Group recognises the importance of diversity, including gender diversity, at all levels of the organisation including the Board and the contribution which it can make to Board effectiveness.
The Groups diversity policies are described in section A5.1 of the Annual Report, where information on the composition of the workforce is also given.
The Group recognises the importance of diversity on the Board, not only of gender, but also of experience and background, and the valuable contribution which such diversity can make towards achieving the appropriate balance of skills and knowledge which an effective board of directors requires.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 36 B Corporate governance There is a formal process for the appointment of directors, starting with a review of the Board structure, size and composition, leading to the preparation of a written speci cation of the skills required and the identi cation of suitable candidates by the Committee.
The choice of appointee is based entirely on merit.
The Committee ensures that prospective non-executive directors can devote suf cient time to the appointment.
The Board recognises the bene ts that can ow from non-executive directors holding other appointments but requires them to seek the agreement of the Chairman before entering into any commitments that might affect the time they can devote to the Company.
The Committee only engages in the process of identi cation of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board when requested by the Board to do so and no meetings of the committee took place in the year.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 37 B Corporate governance
