B2.1 Audit and Compliance Committee The Audit and Compliance Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive directors of the Company and its terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees responsibilities include: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting: reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: ensuring that the system and controls for regulatory compliance are effective: and monitoring the relationship between the Group and the external auditor.
It also provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal audit functions report to the non-executive directors.
Meetings The Committee meets at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The Committee normally invites the Chairman, the executive directors, Director of Financial Accounting and Group Company Secretary, Director of Legal Services, Head of Internal Audit and a partner and other representatives from the external auditor to attend meetings of the Committee, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
For part of each meeting the Committee will meet separately with representatives of the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit without any other persons present.
At each meeting the Committee receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, compliance functions.
Signi cant issues addressed by the Committee in relation to the financial statements The Committee considers whether the accounting policies adopted by the Group are suitable and whether signi cant estimates and judgements made by the management are appropriate.
In evaluating the Groups financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2013 the Committee considered particularly: The calculation of interest income under the Effective Interest Rate method for both internally originated and purchased loan assets: The levels of impairment provision against loan assets: The valuation of the fide cit in the Groups fide ned bene t pension scheme: and The Groups capital and funding position and the Group forecasts for future periods.
In each of these areas the Committee was provided with papers discussing the position shown in the accounts, the underlying market conditions and assumptions and the methodology adopted for any calculations.
These were reviewed in detail and discussed with the relevant Group staff and the results of this work were considered, together with the results of testing by the external auditor.
The Committee also considered whether this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was able to reach satisfactory conclusions on all of these areas and therefore resolved to commend the Annual Report to the Board for approval.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 34 B Corporate governance External auditor The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process, for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of external auditors.
The Committee is also responsible for developing and implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Committee considers the effectiveness of the external audit and the Groups relationship with the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, on an on-going basis, and have conducted a formal review of the effectiveness of the annual audit before commending this Annual Report to the Board.
This review consisted of considering a list of relevant questions, together with the senior financial management of the Group, without the external auditor present, and then discussing the evaluation with the auditors.
The Committee was able to conclude, on the basis of this exercise and its experience over the year that the external audit process remained effective.
A further review will be carried out following the completion of audit procedures on all Group companies and reported on in next years annual report.
Deloitte LLP and its predecessor rms have been the auditors of the Group since its foundation in 1985, although the lead audit partner rotates every five years, most recently following the completion of the audit for the year ended 30 September 2011.
Before recommending their re-appointment to the Board, the Committee engaged with the auditors to ensure that they are still providing the required quality of service and remained independent.
During the year the external auditor presented the Committee with their rms transparency report, which is intended to demonstrate the steps it takes to ensure audit quality with reference to the Audit Quality Framework issued by the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial Reporting Council.
More speci cally the Committee considered whether the auditors understanding of the Groups business, their access to appropriate financial services and regulatory specialists within their rm, both locally and nationally, and their understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates were appropriate to the Groups needs.
It also assessed the performance of the audit, as described above, the auditors conduct of their relationship with the Group and the requirements of the Groups financial control process.
On this basis the Committee concluded that the needs of the Group would not be best served by putting the external audit out to tender at this time.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that the reappointment of Deloitte LLP should be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee notes, however, the recent findings of the Competition Commission into the audit market, which will require all FTSE-350 companies to put their audit out to tender every ten years, and, where auditors have been in of ce since before 2005, to conduct a tender no later than two years after the end of the current lead partners five year term.
That would mean that the Group would be required to put its audit out to tender in or before its financial year ending 30 September 2018.
A recommended course of action will be proposed to the Board during the next financial year and the Committee will report on its conclusions in next years annual report.
The Committee has not identi ed any factors which might restrict its choice of external auditor.
Both the Committee and the external auditor have in place safeguards to avoid any compromise of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Committee considers the independence of the external auditor annually and the Group has a formal policy for the engagement of its external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The policy is designed to ensure that neither the nature of the service to be provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services could impact the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy precludes the appointment of the external auditor to provide any service where there is involvement in management functions or decision making, or any service on which management may place primary reliance in determining the adequacy of internal controls, financial systems or financial reporting.
The external auditor may provide corporate finance and similar services provided there is no signi cant advocacy role or tax services but, if the advice given or the position taken would be material to the Group, the prior consent of the Committee would be required.
Internal audit services will not be provided by the external auditor.
Other services may be procured by management without the prior consent of the Committee, but are reported to the Committee on an ongoing basis.
Fees paid to the external auditor are shown in note 16 to the Accounts.
Other than services required to be provided by external auditors by legislation or regulation, non-audit services relate to taxation, corporate finance activity and the advisory work in connection with the Groups application for a banking licence shown as other services in note 16.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 35 B Corporate governance
