Corporate governance The Board of directors is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 and which is publicly available on their website at www.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2013 the Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
Leadership The Board of directors is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving major agreements, transactions and other nancing matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group against budget.
All directors receive suf cient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings and there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board, which includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and the executive directors, determination and approval of the Groups objectives, strategy and annual budget, investment decisions, corporate governance policies and financial and dividend policies.
During the year the Board of directors comprised the Chairman, four executive and four independent non-executive directors.
All of the directors bring to the Company a broad and valuable range of experience.
The names of the directors in of ce at the date of this report and their biographical details are set out in section B1.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the Board, including Edward Tilly, the Senior Independent Director.
This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in the biographical details in section B1 and there have been no signi cant changes during the period to those commitments.
Prior to 1 October 2008 the Board approved a set of guiding principles on managing con icts and agreed a process to identify and authorise any con icts which might arise.
At each meeting of the Board actual or potential con icts of interest in respect of any director are reviewed.
The Board also operates through a number of committees covering certain speci c matters, these being: Board committees The Remuneration Committee, which during the year consisted of Alan Fletcher who chairs the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck, Peter Hartill, and Edward Tilly, all of whom were independent non-executive directors, and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
The Audit and Compliance Committee, which during the year consisted of Peter Hartill who chairs the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck, Alan Fletcher, and Edward Tilly, all of whom were independent non-executive directors.
The Board is satis ed that all members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets at least three times per year.
The Nomination Committee, consisting of Robert Dench, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and all of the non-executive directors, ensuring that a majority of the Committees members are independent non-executive directors.
Executive committees The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of appropriate heads of functions and chaired by Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive.
The Committee meets regularly and monitors Group liquidity risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and treasury counterparty exposures.
Further information on the Groups financial risk management procedures and the Committees part in them is given in note 6 to the accounts.
The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate heads of functions and chaired by Nicholas Keen, the Finance Director.
It meets regularly and is responsible for establishing credit policy and monitoring compliance therewith.
All Board committees operate within fide ned terms of reference and suf cient resources are made available to them to undertake their duties.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, Audit and Compliance Committee and Nomination Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 30 B Corporate governance The attendance of individual directors at the regular meetings of the Board and its committees in the year is set out below, with the number each was eligible to attend shown in brackets Audit and Compliance Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Robert G Dench 9 9 - 5 5 - Nigel S Terrington 9 9 - - - Nicholas Keen 9 9 - - - John A Heron 9 9 - - - Richard J Woodman 9 9 - - - Edward A Tilly 8 9 3 3 4 5 - Alan K Fletcher 9 9 3 3 5 5 - Peter J N Hartill 9 9 3 3 5 5 - Fiona Clutterbuck 7 9 3 3 4 5 - The work of the Board committees is described further in sections B2.1, B2.2 and B3.
Effectiveness All of the non-executive directors are independent of management and all are appointed for xed terms.
They are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
The non-executive directors meet with the Chairman, from time to time, without the presence of the executive directors.
All of the directors were re-elected at the Annual General Meeting on 7 February 2013 and all of them have submitted themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered appropriate to do so and have access to such continuing professional development opportunities as are identi ed as appropriate in the Board appraisal process.
The composition of the Board and its committees is kept under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of power and authority between executive and non-executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the skills and experience necessary to direct the Company and the Groups business activities.
There is an established process for external appointments through the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
Executive director appointments are based upon merit and business need.
Non-executive appointments are based upon the candidates pro les matching those drawn up by the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the Board approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
The Board, individual directors and Board committees are appraised annually.
During the year the Board conducted a formal and rigorous performance review, which was facilitated by Socia Limited, who have no other connection with the Group.
All Board members participated in a series of individual face to face interviews with the external facilitator, which were followed by a Board discussion at its meeting in July 2013.
The facilitators formal report stated that the review indicated that the Company met the requirements of the Code.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31 B Corporate governance B2 Corporate governance continued The non-executive directors meet to review the performance of the Chairman.
The performance of the Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
The performance of the other executive directors is appraised by the Chief Executive in conjunction with the Chairman.
The results of these appraisals are presented to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and determination of remuneration.
The Chairman appraises the performance of the non-executive directors, identifying any development opportunities or training needs.
Following her appointment to the Board in September 2012, Fiona Clutterbuck undertook a programme of activities to familiarise herself with the operations of the Group.
All of the non-executive directors have received presentations during the year on various aspects of the Groups activities.
At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will con rm to shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any non-executive director, that, following formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Accountability Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main business lines are included within the Strategic report.
The Board uses this to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described in section B5.
An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September 2013 and to the date of these financial statements.
The directors con rm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for this period and that these procedures accord with the guidance Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The directors are responsible for the system of internal control throughout the Group, including the system of internal control over financial reporting, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship between the cost and bene ts from particular aspects of the control system.
The system of internal control includes documented procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and senior management.
Internal control over financial reporting within the Group is provided by a process designed, under the supervision of the Finance Director and senior financial management of the Group, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes, including the process of preparing the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures intended to ensure that records are maintained that fairly, and in reasonable detail, re ect transactions and dispositions of assets, to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements, to ensure that receipts and expenditures are only being made in accordance with management authorisation and to provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may reduce.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 32 B Corporate governance The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk management process, from which the key risks facing the business are identi ed.
The process results in reports to the Board on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of regular presentations from senior management to enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated with their speci c areas.
The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit and Compliance Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit and Compliance Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
Further details of the role and activities of the Audit and Compliance Committee and its relationship with the internal and external auditors are set out in section B2.1.
Remuneration Information on how the Group has applied the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration is set out in the Directors remuneration report in section B3.
Relations with shareholders The Board encourages communication with the Companys institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the directors and committee chairmen are available for questions.
The Annual General Meeting is held in London during business hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report to investors on the Groups activities, to answer their questions and receive their views.
Shareholders have an opportunity to vote separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged are counted and the balances for, against and directed to be withheld in respect of each resolution is announced.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have a full programme of meetings with institutional investors during the course of the year and investors comments are communicated to all members of the Board, enabling them to develop an understanding of the major shareholders views of the Group.
During the year ended 30 September 2013 meetings were held with investors from the UK, Europe and North America.
From time to time other presentations are made to institutional investors and analysts to enable them to gain a greater understanding of important aspects of the Groups business.
The Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee hold annual meetings with leading shareholders to discuss remuneration policies and other corporate governance matters and the comments received are reported to the Board and considered by the Remuneration Committee in determining or varying the Groups approach to executive compensation.
The Companys web site at www.
co. uk provides access to information on the Company and its businesses.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 33 B Corporate governance
