Leadership Board of Directors Chris Gibson-Smith Steve Groves FIA David Richardson FIA, CFA Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Chris was appointed as Chairman Elect of Partnership Steve joined the Group in 2005 and was appointed David joined Partnership in February 2013 and was in December 2012 and as Chairman in April 2013.
Chief Executive Office of the predecessor company in appointed a Director on 12 May 2013.
He was appointed a Director of the Company on Key strengths: Key strengths: 12May 2013.
Over 40 years of business experience across a wide Financial management, investment expertise, range of industries.
This includes 30 years of FTSE100 Key strengths: broad based life insurance experience and longevity main Board experience, 20years asChairman.
Extensive experience in the insurance industry.
has substantial financial knowledge, strategic and Experience, skills and qualications: Experience, skills and qualications: executive leadership experience.
Chris has served as Chairman of London Stock David was previously Group Chief Actuary of Phoenix Exchange Group plc since 2003.
He was also Chairman Experience, skills and qualications: Group.
Prior to this, David worked in a number of of The British Land Company PLC from 2007 to 2012 Steve was previously the Admin Re Senior Actuary senior roles at Swiss Re, including Chief Actuary of and a Director of the Qatar Financial Centre Authority for Swiss Re Life and Health.
Prior to joining Swiss Re, its Life and Health business, Head of Products for UK from 2006 to 2012.
Chris was Group Managing Steve was the Head of Actuarial Services and then and South Africa and Global Head of its Longevity Director of BP from 1997 to 2001 and was awarded Executive Head of Business Development for Britannic Pricing teams.
David commenced his career at the the CBE in 2011 for services to the financial industry.
Steve is a Fellow of the Institute actuarial consultancy Tillinghast.
David is a Fellow and Faculty of Actuaries and was a founder member of of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and a CFA Committee membership: its equity release working group.
Chairman of Nomination and a member of Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Committee membership: Committee membership: None.
External appointments: Chairman of London Stock Exchange Group plc and of External appointments: External appointments: the Advisory Board of the think tank Reform.
Director of Guardian Financial Services.
Douglas Ferrans FFA Dr Ian Owen FIA Dr Richard Ward Independent non-executive Director Non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Douglas joined the Board in May 2013.
Ian chaired Partnership for nine years from its Richard joined the Board in May 2013. formation in 2005 to April 2013.
Key strengths: Key strengths: Direct and extensive experience of relevant asset Key strengths: A wealth of insurance background.
He stepped management, was CEO of Insight Investment Strategic insight, entrepreneurial business drive down as CEO of Lloyds of London in December 2013 Management and is an experienced actuary.
coupled with deep understanding of insurance and sat on the Council of Lloyds andthe Lloyds business models and nances.
Experience, skills and qualications: Douglas has been on the Board of the Investment Experience, skills and qualications: Experience, skills and qualications: Management Association since 2005 and was Ian is a Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
Richard was Chief Executive Officer of Lloyds appointed Chairman in 2010.
Prior to that, he was He has previously served as non-executive Director from April 2006 to December 2013.
He previously Chief Executive of Insight Investment Management of Resolution Life, AA Insurance and Endsleigh worked for over 10 years at International Petroleum from 2001 to 2009, having previously held senior Insurance and Group Director of Liverpool Victoria.
Exchange IPE re-branded ICE Futures as both positions at Britannia Asset Management 1997 Hisexecutive career encompassed being CEO of Eagle Chief Executive Officer and Vice-Chairman.
Prior to the 2001 and Scottish Amicable Investment Managers Star International Life, Managing Director of Eagle IPE, Richard held a range of senior positions at BP and 1977 1997.
Douglas was previously a nonStar Life and Managing Director of Zurich Personal was Head of Marketing & Business Development for executive Director, and then Chairman, of Invista Real Lines.
He had been a member of the Association of energy derivatives worldwide at Tradition Financial Estate Investment Management 2006 2012.
He is British Insurers Life Insurance Council and Chair of Services.
Between 1982 and 1988, Richard worked a Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and a theMedical Committee.
as a Senior Physicist with the Science and Engineering member of the Takeover Panel.
Research Council, leading a number of research and Committee membership: development projects.
Richard was a non-executive Committee membership: Member of Nomination and Risk and Chairman of Director of the LCH.
Clearnet Group previously London Member of Audit and Risk and PLACL Investment Committee.
Clearing House Limited from 1999 to 2006.
External appointments: Committee membership: External appointments: Chairman of A-Plan Insurance, Canopius Managing Chairman of Remuneration Committee and member of Chairman Investment Management Association Agents, Guardian Group and the Long-term Care Group Nomination Committee.
of the Association of British Insurers.
Non-executive Director of Unum Limited.
External appointments: Richard is Chairman of both Brit Insurance Holdings BV and Brit Syndicates Limited.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 42 Peter Catterall Ian Cormack Maxim Crewe Non-executive Director Senior Independent non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Peter was appointed to the Board in February 2013, Ian joined the Board in May 2013.
Maxim was appointed to the Board in February 2013, having been a director of the predecessor company having been a director of the predecessor company Key strengths: since 2008. since 2008.
Strong general business experience in senior Key strengths: leadership roles and is an experienced strategist.
Key strengths: Relevant investment experience in UK life assurance, Extensive experience in corporate finance and the Experience, skills and qualications: mergers and acquisitions and strategy.
Ian spent over 30 years at Citibank up to 2000, Experience, skills and qualications: latterly as UK Country Head and Co-Head of the Global Experience, skills and qualications: Peter joined Cinven in 1997 and is a member of the Financial Institutions Group.
From 2000 to 2002, he Maxim joined Cinven in 2006 and is a member of Executive Committee at Cinven.
Peter has been was Chief Executive Officer of AIG Europe.
He was the Financial Services sector team.
Maxim has been involved in numerous investments at Cinven, including previously a non-executive Director of Pearl Group involved in numerous financial services investments Guardian Financial Services, Avolon Aerospace and the 2005 2009 and Qatar Financial Centre Authority at Cinven, including Guardian Financial Services and Gondola Group.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: None.
Nomination and Chairman of Risk Committee and None.
interim membership of Audit Committee.
External appointments: External appointments: Director of Guardian Financial Services and Avolon External appointments: Various roles as nominee Director of Cinven Aerospace.
Member of Cinven Partners LLP.
Chairman of Maven Income & Growth VCT 4, Senior investment companies.
Independent Director of Xchanging and Bloomsbury Publishing, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Phoenix Life Holdings Limited and Phoenix Group Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Simon Waugh David Young FCA Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Appointment: Appointment: Directors who served the Company during 2013 Simon was appointed to the Board in March 2014.
David joined the Group as a non-executive Director in and up to the date of this report: September 2005 and was appointed a non-executive Date Key strengths: Director on 12 May 2013.
Date of appointment Considerable experience in retail financial services appointment ceased industry: particular expertise in distribution, Key strengths: customerservices, operations, strategy, compliance Expertise in financial accounting and audit of listed Chris Gibsonand regulation.
companies, corporate finance, distribution of annuity Smith 12 May 2013 and equity release, compliance and governance, risk, Steve Groves 12 May 2013 Experience, skills and qualications: control and assurance frameworks.
Simon was Chief Executive of AWD Group plc, from David Richardson 12 May 2013 2005, Chairman in 2007 until 2009.
Prior to this, his Experience, skills and qualications: Marisa Cassoni 12 May 2013 11 March 2014 career was spent in an executive capacity at Centrica David is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Plc, SAGA Services Ltd, Lloyds Bank PLC Lloyds Bank Accountants ICAEW.
He is also a member of the Peter Catterall 26 February 2013 Insurance Services and American Express.
Between Chartered Institute of Taxation.
He previously held Ian Cormack 12 May 2013 2003 and 2009 he was a non-executive Director of the positions of Finance Director, Chief Operating Maxim Crewe 26 February 2013 Johnston Press Plc.
Officer and Chief Executive of a Stock Exchangelisted insurance broking and financial advisory group, Douglas Ferrans 12 May 2013 Committee membership: following a career in investment banking.
Previously Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Ian Owen 12 May 2013 chairman of Annuity Direct and BVCA Insurance External appointments: Services and deputy chairman of the Institute's NED Robin Phipps 12 May 2013 7 March 2014 Non-executive chairman of CMC Markets PLC, MyDrive Special Interest Group.
Richard Ward 12 May 2013 Solutions, The Consulting Consortium and Southern Committee membership: Simon Waugh 7 March 2014 Health NHS Foundation Trust and a trustee of Age UK.
Chairman of Audit and member of Nomination David Young 12 May 2013 and RiskCommittees and interim membership of Remuneration Committee.
External appointments: Senior independent Director of British Gas Insurance and a non-executive Director of British Gas Services, Weatherbys Hamilton and the Key Group.
Consultant on external audit to Independent Audit.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43
