Leadership Senior management Andrew Chamberlain FIA Mark Dearsley ACA Ged Hosty FIA Actuarial Function Holder Managing Director, International Managing Director, Equity Release Andrew joined Partnership in August 2010, though Mark joined Partnership in February 2009 from Savills Ged joined Partnership in 2010, having gained over 20 he had already been the Actuarial Function Holder plc, the FTSE 250 property adviser, where he was years experience in financial services and specialising for over two years whilst working for Towers Watson Group Finance Director.
Prior to Savills, Mark was in the equity release sector since 1996.
He is now one the global consulting rm.
Andrew had joined the Finance Director of Aviva Europe & International, the of the most respected and experienced practitioners predecessor rm Watson Wyatt as a partner in 2000 international arm of Aviva plc, the worlds fifth largest in the market.
Other roles he has held in the sector and had led the regulatory and tax teams in the insurance group.
He had previously been Avivas Group include Chief Executive of In Retirement Services, Insurance Practice.
Andrew has previously worked for Mergers & Acquisitions Director.
After qualifying as a Finance Director for NPIs equity release business Hill Samuel Life Assurance, latterly as Director and Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse now and Head of Equity Release for BUPA.
Ged Chairs Deputy Actuary, until 1990, and then spent four years PwC, Mark joined Charterhouse Bank now part of the Actuarial Professions Equity Release Member as Chief Actuary and Director for Aetna UK before HSBC where he spent 10 years, latterly as a Board Interest Group where he has led a number of important joining the GAD in 1994 to advise the life assurance Director.
Mark was previously Partnerships Group Chief industry studies.
Ged is also a director of the Equity regulators, as Chief Actuary from 1996.
Financial Officer, and was appointed MD, International Release Council formerly SHIP the equity release in February 2013. industry body.
Jane Kennedy Andrew Megson Kathryn Purves Chief Operating Officer Managing Director, Retirement Chief Risk Officer Jane joined Partnership in 2006 from Barclays.
She Andrew joined Partnership in June 2009.
Andrew Kathryn joined Partnership as Executive, Office of the has many years experience leading high performing was previously Sales Director of Just Retirement CEO in August 2008 and was appointed Commercial best in class operational divisions across a number where he held primary responsibility for the strategic Director in February 2012 and Chief Risk Officer in of financial services companies.
Janes experience and practical aspects of Just Retirements sales November 2012.
Previously Kathryn was an Executive spans a wide range of product areas including General distribution and IFA communications.
Prior to this, and later a Consultant to Phoenix Equity Partners Insurance and Investments at SAGA and SAGA Andrew held a number of senior roles with investment for four years working on a variety of different Investment Direct, Life and Pensions at Colonial Life specialist NPI and successfully launched Britannic transactions in relation to due diligence, negotiation, and Scottish Widows and mortgage operations at Retirement Solutions into the IFA market in 2000, documentation and on-going portfolio management.
Global Home Loans in the UK and offshore.
being instrumental in positioning them as a leader in Prior to that Kathryn worked as an Investment enhanced impaired annuities.
Andrew qualied as a Manager for Deutsche Bank within the European fund Master of Business Administration in 2003. of funds team, and UBS Capital in Australia.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 44
