Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committees role is Nomination Committee meeting The Committee and the Board have to review the size and structure of attendance in the year ended sought to ensure that appointments the Board, succession planning and to 31December 2013 are of the best candidates to promote make recommendations to the Board the success of the Company and that Member No.
of meetings on potential candidates for the Board appointments are based on merit, with and for membership and chairmanship Chris Gibson-Smith 2 2 due regard for the benets of diversity on Chairman of the Boards Committees.
As part of the Board, including gender whilst also this process, and as part of its continuing meeting the requirements of the Equality Ian Cormack 2 2 duties, the Committee ensures that Act.
Subject to these requirements, the Ian Owen 2 2 Directors have sufficient time to undertake Board has an on-going commitment to Robin Phipps 2 2 their duties as Directors and members strengthening female representation on David Young 2 2 of the Companys Audit, Remuneration, the Board.
At Board level, this has included Nomination and Risk Committees.
requesting head hunters to ensure that Independent a significant proportion of the long list of The Committee is scheduled to meet twice Activity during the year candidates is female.
a year but it will meet more frequently if Prior to the Companys admission to listing, required.
The Committee normally invites The Board is satisfied that the majority a review of the composition of the Board the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief of the non-executive Directors are was undertaken, resulting in the Board on Operating Officer, who has responsibility independent from management and have listing, comprising Chris Gibson-Smith, Ian for human resources throughout the no material commercial or other connection Cormack, Peter Catterall, Maxim Crewe, Ian Company, to attend.
Peter Catterall, a with the Company and are able to exercise Owen, David Young, Robin Phipps, Marisa Director nominated by the Companys independent judgement.
Cassoni, Douglas Ferrans and Richard Ward major shareholder, also attends meetings Ian Owen, as the Companys former as non-executive Directors and Steve by invitation.
Chairman, and Peter Catterall and Maxim Groves and David Richardson as Executive The Committee has written terms Crewe, as Directors nominated by the Directors.
The balance of non-executive of reference, which are available Companys major shareholder, are not and Executive Directors was considered from the Group Company Secretary considered to be independent.
and the Committee is satisfied that it or on the Companys website continues to be appropriate.
As part of All non-executive Directors, whether www.
The terms these reviews, the Committee considers independent or not, challenge assumptions of reference are subject to continuous the independence of non-executive constructively and effectively and review by the Group Company Secretary to Directors and the balance of skills and assist executive management in the ensure they meet changing requirements knowledge required of both Executive development of strategy thus supporting in regulation, legislation and best-practice.
effective leadership of the Company.
These were formally reviewed by the Their experience, gained from varied but Committee in December 2013 when All the Directors have been appointed predominantly financial backgrounds, some minor amendments were adopted within the previous three years.
However, with considerable knowledge of the in response to revised guidance from the Committee has taken account of the insurance industry in particular, enables the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & service of Ian Owen, Robin Phipps and them to contribute constructively to the Administrators.
David Young as non-executive Directors leadership of the Company from a variety ofthe Companys predecessor company.
Membership Having undertaken this review, the During December 2013, Marisa Cassoni Committee has recommended to the The Nomination Committee comprises expressed her intention to step down Board that each of the Directors should be five non-executive Directors, the majority as a Director once the appointment of elected at the Annual General Meeting to of whom are independent.
The Group a replacement had been completed.
Company Secretary acts as secretary to Marisa Cassoni ceased to be a Director the Committee.
on 11 March 2014 and it was announced that Paul Bishop would be joining the The Committee has a schedule of matters Board as her replacement on 1 May for regular review during the year and 2014.
Simon Waugh joined the Board as a Chris Gibson-Smith formally met twice in the year.
Director on 7 March 2014 to replace Robin Chairman Nomination Committee Phipps who stepped down as a Director on 7 March 2014.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49
