Our resources and relationships Our business model functions because it is underpinned by key resources and relationships The underwriting team comprises a income securities is outsourced to Insight Key resources and skills technical underwriting function, which is Investment Management Global Limited responsible for developing and maintaining Insight Investment Management under Intellectual property the underwriting manuals and ensuring an investment management agreement A significant amount of medical compliance with those manuals, and which species strict portfolio allocation information is required to correctly an operational underwriting function and risk limits, including interest rate, credit priceaNon-Standard Annuity NSA.
which takes the day-to-day assessment and concentration limits.
of life expectancy decisions on a Our pricing engine is driven by a very high case-by-case basis.
Capital management number of rating factors, signicantly improving mortality assessment.
We have automated the process of We set our product margins with the aim The Partnership medical questionnaire performing the assessment of life of ensuring that new business written in asks approximately 250 questions, expectancy for the majority of fully a particular period is capital generative, whereas for a standard annuity provider, underwritten cases to produce annuity across the new business portfolio as none are asked.
Therefore, there are quotes directly from an annuity ona whole.
around 250 rating factors considered, line portal after input of policyholder Our business is managed on an economic almost all medical related, in setting medical information by the financial capital basis and the capital position the annuity price, compared to typically adviser.
For paper based applications, the at 31 December 2013, together with less than five non-medical factors for a automated process speeds up the initial sensitivities to various economic and standard writer.
stage of life expectancy assessment operations stresses is set out on page 83. whilst also allowing the underwriters to This proprietary Intellectual Property make manual adjustments based on the IP allows us to reserve more accurately Reputation and brand specics of each case.
for our business and the feedback loop Partnership is the longest established from existing business experience helps Investment management UK insurer specialising in the design and to rene the mortality estimates for manufacture of financial products for each applicant.
Our objective is to invest in assets that people whose health or lifestyle means provide a high risk-adjusted yield and which The IP allows us to offer better rates to that their life expectancy is likely to be are efficient from an economic capital annuity customers because of greater reduced.
Our brand and reputation are key perspective.
Our investment strategy confidence around longevity.
It also to the success of our business.
is subject to prudent risk management supports a significant new business through close matching of liabilities We cater for customers with a wide variety franchise and large distribution footprint and diversication of risk across the of health conditions, from the relatively and allows us to quote competitively on investment portfolio.
minor such as high blood pressure, to every medical or lifestyle condition.
the more serious such as heart failure, Our investment portfolio is held in xed stroke, diabetes, kidney failure and cancer.
Underwriting and pricing expertise income securities, cash and equity release By looking at every aspect of our clients assets.
During 2013, investments of In contrast to other NSA market health we aim to deliver the maximum surplus assets were also made into competitors, we own the underlying benefit we can.
Commodity Trade Finance, where we saw mortality data and have developed our an opportunity to earn an increased riskown underwriting tables and manuals.
All underwriting is undertaken within The xed income investment policy is set Partnership, with a small number by the Board and based on advice from of complex cases reviewed by its the Chief Investment Officer and the medical officers.
The day-to-day implementation of this policy for xed Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 22 In November 2013 we won a 5 Star Service Key relationships Rating at the prestigious Financial Adviser Service Award.
This is the fourth year that Customers we have won this accolade and it highlights We continue to recognise theresponsibility our continued commitment to providing we have to all our customers.
intermediaries with top quality products and service.
We have an on-going programme of customer research.
The results are positive, The Financial Adviser Service Awards are with customers scoring all aspects of our considered the benchmark for service service highly.
From our last survey in May standards within the retail financial 2013, 92% rated our service as excellent services marketplace with companies or good.
However, we have not been working hard to secure a rating between complacent with these positive scores, one and five stars.
These are compiled andhave considered the feedback received based on intermediary voting across and are planning a range of initiatives to a number of key criteria with only help us to further improve our service the providers who show outstanding proposition in 2014.
This research is key performance in all areas having a chance in helping us to continue to provide a tosecure a five star rating.
responsible, fair and helpful service.
Partnership has won a number of other awards in 2013 including: t OWFTUNFOUJGF 1FOTJPOT.
POFZGBDUT Awards Best Annuity Provider 2013 t OWFTUNFOUJGF 1FOTJPOT.
"POFZGBDUT Awards Highly Commended Best Annuity Service 2013 t. POFZGBDUT 'JWF 4UBS SBUJOH GPS &OIBODFE Lifetime Mortgage t '5 ""EWJTFS 0OMJOF 4FSWJDF ""XBSET o BXBSEFE 4UBST BU JO UIF #FTUJGF Pensions Provider category."
A 65 year old man with high blood pressure and high cholesterol could be 460 each year better off with a Partnership annuity.
Annual annuity received for a 50,000 pension fund compared to a standard OMO annuity Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Our resources and relationships continued We are a founder member of Pensions Income Choice Association, developing innovative ways for people with pension funds under 40,000 to get affordable advice We treat all customer complaints seriously In addition, we are a founder member of For retirees who do not actively exercise and aim to ensure fair and prompt PICA Pensions Income Choice Association, OMO and purchase an annuity through treatment.
Although allowed eight weeks an industry body focused on highlighting their incumbent pension provider, we have by regulation, we aim to resolve 95% of all the importance of ensuring customers put in place exclusive arrangements with complaints within four weeks.
In addition, get the best possible retirement income selected UK life assurance companies and our front-line staff resolve a significant from their pension savings.
Much of pension providers to offer NSAs where the number of customer queries at the point of this focus has been on promoting the corporate partner is unable or unwilling contact, meaning that customers receive importance of the OMO but it has also to provide a quote.
These arrangements the required response without the need developed innovative ways to enable the provide access to vesting pension to follow a formal complaints process.
74% of people with pension funds under customers who may not otherwise take Regular Root Cause Committee meetings 40,000 to get affordable advice from advantage of OMO.
provide the opportunity for us to have financial advisers.
For retirees who are part of employer constructive discussions and engender dened benefit DB schemes, we work change, where necessary, to ensure Distributors with employee benefit consultants EBCs continuous improvement.
Our distribution approach for our atto offer total pension income exchange retirement annuity products has been TPIE and buy-outs or buy-ins of small We have a good relationship with the designed to: cultivate a diverse set of and mid-sized DB schemes as fide-risking Financial Ombudsman Service, which has distribution channels: focus on expected processes for scheme participants, supported Partnership in the majority of beneciaries of the Retail Distribution trustees and corporates.
Through these our decisions and has also commended us Review RDR : and develop long-term services, we offer our annuity products to for the quality of our complaint handling relationships with our most productive retirees who would not otherwise require a and le submissions.
pension product with a guaranteed income.
We believe that up to 60% of people at retirement would qualify for an enhanced Over recent years, the large majority of We have also put in place arrangements annuity.
We have consistently championed our retirement annuities were distributed with Virgin Money in order to offer our the needs of those with even modestly via the independent financial adviser IFA annuity products to its customers.
Whilst IFAs remain a key channel We have secured long-term panel positions included working with government, we have diversied our distribution as the sole provider of NSAs with two politicians and opinion formers to raise activities in order to access new pools of leading FA networks.
awareness of the importance of shopping demand from retirees.
around to gain the best annuity rate, the We have also put in place marketing For retirees actively exercising their OMO, Open Market Option OMO.
services agreements with certain of our we operate through a network of IFAs, distribution partners which represent across specialist and general financial five of the top 10 FA networks by advisers.
Recently a new set of specialist annuity market share.
These agreements annuity IFAs has emerged with a view to provide us with improved access to taking advantage of the growth in the market our products and services to the non-standard annuity NSA market.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 24 There is a chronic lack of awareness We manage our reinsurance counterparty FCA Thematic Review among self-funders for care that they credit exposure by utilising global ofannuities have to pay for their social care.
"In addition reinsurers who are all currently rated the lack of knowledge of where to get i""w PS BCPWF 4UBOEBSE 1PPS T PS We welcome the publication appropriate financial advice led to the equivalent."
In addition, credit risk is ofthe Thematic Review in creation of PayingForCare, a not-formitigated via collateral arrangements.
profit subsidiary company of Partnership.
The uncollateralised credit exposure to February 2014 and its findings, PayingForCare is currently engaged with each reinsurer is matched by either assets that, 8 out of 10 annuity 64 local authorities to enable them to deposited back as collateral to Partnership customers could get a better extend and broaden their elderly care or deposited in trust for the benefit of services to include meeting the financial Partnership.
We become the legal owner dealon the open market.
The website of the collateral assets on default of a www.
org enables consumers reinsurer under these arrangements.
to understand how the care system works for self-funders and provides access to Government specialist care fees advice.
We seek to maintain open and positive relationships with our regulators.
Reinsurers We maintain a dialogue with government, Transferring a proportion of longevity risk both directly and indirectly through to our reinsurance partners is a strategic appropriate trade organisations to raise component of our underwriting model awareness of the opportunities for people which reduces the volatility of future to improve their income in retirement.
profits, improves pricing competitiveness and improves returns on capital.
Examples of this include our joint sponsorship of the Pensions Institutes Longevity risk transfer reduces the report A Healthier Way to fide-risk impact on our profits of any deviations in which examined the introduction of mortality experience.
As a result, the use of medical underwriting to the dened reinsurers reduces the volatility of earnings benefit market.
We have led the campaign to get financial We are able to limit the amount of advice for self-funders included in the underwriting risk retained after Care Bill, meaning that a greater number of reinsurance, allowing us to increase people who have to pay for all or some of capital efficiency.
Approximately 66% of Suppliers their care needs can get the advice they new business longevity risk is re-insured, require to make informed choices to fund Our business model is to outsource certain reducing our exposure to the risk that their long-term care.
operational and administrative functions customers live longer than expected.
This includes areas such Our contribution has also extended into These arrangements reduce the amount as: investment management, customer sponsoring work with the International of capital which we are obliged to set aside medical assessments, the administration of Longevity Centre-UK Grandparents as reserves to support future annuity annuity payments and premium collection Generosity which was launched in the payments, which results in a more efficient for protection products.
House of Lords in October.
intergenerational giving and changing The relationships with the suppliers of trends in our society.
these services are managed through a dedicated team.
Employees of Partnership are also members of the following relevant organisations which provide an opportunity to engage and shape policy: Investment and Life Assurance Group ILAG, the Association of British Insurers ABI, Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, Pensions Income Choice Association PICA and Equity Release Council ERC.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Our resources and relationships continued We want to attract and retain people of Benets Our people the highest possible calibre and recognising We value the contribution our employees and rewarding performance plays a key Employee engagement make to the business, so in return offer part in this.
Staff are rewarded nancially listening toour people a wide range of policies and benets, through competitive remuneration and designed to attract, develop and retain We conduct staff surveys periodically local incentive schemes.
the best and most talented individuals.
to gauge their level of engagement in During 2013, 25% of new roles created at Staff have access to a reward and areas of the business.
Our last survey Partnership were lled by internal moves remuneration programme, ensuring marketin 2013 focused on measuring our risk or promotions.
related pay whilst enabling exibility to culture, inuenced through changes in recognise individual contribution.
regulation, with views on behaviours and Diversity risk specically targeted.
Further, we aimed We have a exible benets scheme which to review progress on key measures of At 31 December 2013 we have a diverse allows staff, on an annual basis, to select engagement and identify opportunities employee population in that 270 are a range of benets to suit their individual for improvements.
These benets include health and management level, there are two females dental care, childcare and retail vouchers, The results showed employee and four males.
At that date the Board travel insurance, health screening, holiday engagement to be signicantly above UK comprised one female and 11 males.
buy and sell and the cycle to work scheme.
financial services norm, with other topics We do not ask for, nor record, the religion This is managed via an online benets at or above norm.
Our staff retention rate or ethnicity of our staff, therefore this portal, through which staff can also over 2013 has been 90%, 90% in 2012. information is not available to report.
manage their pension contributions and Positive changes since the previous survey fund allocations.
At the end of December, We aim to create and promote a safe were evident in career development and 87%of permanent and xed term staff and healthy environment for all of our training, retention and pay and benets.
are enrolled in the Group Personal Pension employees, where diversity is valued A number of actions were identied as a Plan.
With the introduction of the new and staff have a sense of wellbeing result of the survey, which included setting government pensions reforms, we will and feel free to question and discuss up a dedicated technical training team begin implementation of auto-enrolment existing practices.
within our operations area, increasing inearly 2014. management and leadership development We will not tolerate discrimination on A Share Save Scheme was introduced in initiatives, including the launch of an any grounds, whether it be on grounds July 2013, as a result of our listing on the online resource hub on the staff intranet.
of age, gender, culture, religion, political London Stock Exchange.
57%of staff Further initiatives are planned and are views, nationality or other personal or participated in the scheme.
It is intended currently being developed for 2014. physical attributes.
to offer share save schemes on an annual basis.
Developing our people We believe in investing in our peoples development, enhancing their skills and cultivating talent.
We already invest extensively in our people and actively encourage them to enhance their knowledge, skills and qualications by supporting them through programmes of personal and professional development, in line with a robust training and competency scheme.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 26 We believe in investing in our peoples development, enhancing their skills and cultivating talent Having surveyed staff for their views on On listing, we offered 1,000 of free community involvement, the key areas of shares to all staff who were employed on interest were overwhelmingly children the date we announced our intention to young adults, education and environment.
95% of eligible staff took up the offer.
In terms of community involvement, we We offer an employee assistance scheme spent the latter part of 2013 engaging called EmployeeCare to staff, which offers with education business partners in both information and counselling on a wide the City and Surrey areas, with a view range of personal and work related topics to establishing new, or joining existing, such as debt management, family relations, school programmes which help young health problems or career advice, with the people develop their core skills and help to end goal of helping employees lead and prepare them for the workplace.
This will be maintain a healthy lifestyle.
We support a range of exible working Charitable donations arrangements, both formal and informal, including part time and homeworking.
Whilst we selected Dogs for the Disabled as our corporate charity, we still support Community staff in any fundraising activity they do We engaged in a number of community for their own preferred charity.
We do this initiatives during 2013, designed to either through a matching commitment or help the business engage with the local making a contribution.
communities in which its offices are based.
We also support fundraising events held at our offices, either in support of the Heart of the Community is an annual corporate charity or others.
initiative by ESSN Media through the Surrey Mirror newspaper.
We offered a prize fund of 20,000 which was allocated to local projects and charity activities across three main areas of environment, education and community in the Surrey area around Redhill.
In addition to Heart of the Community, we also sponsored the 2013 ESSNM Sports Awards.
This was a legacy to our 2012 sponsorship of young Olympic hopefuls from the Surrey area, supporting sporting talent.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27
