Effectiveness The role and structure of the Board The Board is responsible for setting companies and organisations, provided Board, its Committees and its individual the Groups strategy for achieving the time commitment does not conict Directors are working effectively.
It is also ultimately with the Directors duties to the Company, of immediate development following the responsible for the management, since such appointments should broaden review was to ensure that the information governance, controls, risk management, their experience.
The appointment to such and papers provided to the Board become direction and performance of the positions is subject to the approval of more focussed.
There is a formal list of matters the Board.
the Board will take place during 2014, the specically reserved for determination results of which will be reported on fully in All Directors are advised of changes in by the Board.
relevant legislation and regulations and The skills and experience of the Board are changing risks, with the assistance of the At each meeting the Board considers highlighted in their biographical details Companys advisers where appropriate.
The experience and Executive Directors are subject to the The Companys Articles of Association knowledge of each of the Directors gives Companys performance development provide for the Board to authorise any them the ability to constructively challenge review process through which their actual or potential conicts of interest.
strategy and to scrutinise performance.
performance against predetermined Directors have access to independent objectives is reviewed and their On joining the Board, Directors undergo professional advice at the Companys personal and professional development a thorough induction programme which expense.
In addition, they have access needs considered.
was developed in accordance with the to the advice and services of the Group guidelines issued by the Institute of An annual performance appraisal of Company Secretary who is responsible for Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, non-executive Directors is undertaken by advice on corporate governance matters to and tailored to the existing knowledge and the Chairman.
As part of this the training the Board.
experience of newly appointed external and personal development requirements The Board currently consists of the Directors.
Prior to Admission to Listing of non-executive Directors are reviewed Chairman, two Executive Directors and all Directors received training from the and agreed.
Non-executive Directors eight non-executive Directors, five of Companys lawyers on their obligations are encouraged to attend seminars and whom are considered by the Board to as Directors of a listed company.
Nonbriengs, at the Companys expense, in be independent.
executive Directors meet the Chairman areas considered to be appropriate for their and the Chief Executive as part of the own professional development including The Board met regularly throughout Nomination Committees selection process governance and issues relevant to the the period.
There were five scheduled and then again on appointment for a Committees on which they sit.
A record of meetings in 2013 following the IPO and thorough brieng on all relevant aspects such training is maintained by the Group a strategy day.
Non-executive Directors of the Company.
They also meet with Company Secretary who is responsible for communicate directly with Executive the Group Company Secretary, senior induction and on-going development.
Directors and senior management management and the Companys lawyers between formal Board meetings.
The Company is committed to annual and other relevant advisers for briengs The Board holds an annual strategy day Board evaluation with external evaluation on their responsibilities as Directors and at which it considers key issues relevant at least every three years.
An informal on the Companys business, nances, risks, to the Company as part of the business Board assessment has been carried strategy, procedures and the markets in planning process.
Directors are expected out in the period since the Initial Public which the Company operates.
to attend all meetings of the Board, and Offering, conducted by the Group Company the Committees on which they sit, and to Directors are advised of the time required Secretary.
The results of the assessment devote sufficient time to the Companys to full the role prior to appointment were used to highlight areas of strength affairs to enable them to full their duties and are asked to confirm that they can and weakness, assist in consideration of as Directors.
In the event that Directors make the required commitment before the future development of the Board, its are unable to attend a meeting, their an appointment is made.
The Board is Committees and its individual directors and comments on papers to be considered at satisfied that each of the non-executive improve their performance.
The results the meeting are discussed in advance with Directors is able to devote sufficient have been discussed by the Board and the Chairman so that their contribution can time to the Companys business.
In the actions agreed where appropriate.
be included in the wider Board discussion.
"appropriate circumstances, the Board The assessment concluded that the Board may authorise Executive Directors to dynamic and its supporting processes take non-executive positions in other are embedding well post-listing and the Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Effectiveness continued The following table shows Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee Chairman meetings in 2013: t ""DUT BT BO JOEFQFOEFOU OPO FYFDVUJWF Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk Investment Director and chairs the Board of 1 the Company: Chris Gibson-Smith 5 n a 5 2 1 n a t #VJMET BO FFDUJWF BOE DPNQMFNFOUBSZ Steve Groves 5 n a n a n a n a n a Board and with the Nomination David Richardson 5 n a n a n a n a 1 Committee, plans succession in 2 Marisa Cassoni 5 4 3 n a n a n a Board appointments: Peter Catterall 5 n a n a n a n a n a t &OTVSFT JO DPMMBCPSBUJPO XJUI UIF Ian Cormack 5 n a n a 2 2 n a Chief Executive Officer, that the Board Maxim Crewe 4 n a n a n a n a n a considers the strategic issues facing 3 the Company: Douglas Ferrans 54 n a n a 2 2 t ""DUT BT B TPVOEJOH CPBSE GPS UIF $IJFG Ian Owen 5 n a n a 2 2 4 Executive Officer and provides general Robin Phipps 5 5 5 2 n a 1 advice relating to the management and David Young 5 5 n a 2 2 3 development of the Companys business: 4 Richard Ward 4 n a 3 n a n a n a and Given the timing of the appointment of the Directors part way through the year, a number t 4VQQPSUT UIF DPNNFSDJBM BDUJWJUJFT PG of meetings were rescheduled to avoid long-standing commitments of the Directors."
It was not always possible to accommodate all of their commitments.
Chief Executive Officer 1 Chris Gibson-Smith was unable to attend the Risk Committee meeting on 18 September due to an unavoidable prior commitment.
Supported by the 2 Marisa Cassoni was unable to attend the meetings of the Audit Committee on Executive Board: 14 August and the Remuneration Committees on 10 and 12 June due to longt 'PSNVMBUFT UIF TUSBUFHJD EJSFDUJPO PG UIF standing prior engagements.
Company agreed with the Board: 3 Douglas Ferrans was unable to attend the Audit Committee meeting on t 3FDPNNFOET UP UIF #PBSE BO BOOVBM 14 Augustdue to a long-standing prior commitment.
budget and three-year financial plan and 4 Richard Ward was unable to attend the meetings of the Board on 3 July ensures their achievement following and the Remuneration Committees on 10 and 12 June due to longstanding Board approval: prior commitments.
t &OTVSFT BO BQQSPQSJBUF SJTL NBOBHFNFOU There were further Board meetings called at short notice to deal with financial, risk and framework is in operation: regulatory matters.
t &OTVSFT UIF $PNQBOZ T TUSBUFHZ BOE The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
values are effectively understood and He sets the tone for the Company and ensures the links between the Board and applied by management and staff: management and between the Board and shareholders are strong.
The Chairman sets t &OTVSFT FFDUJWF DPNNVOJDBUJPO the Board agenda and ensures that sufficient time is allocated to important matters, in with shareholders: particular those relating to strategy issues.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations, for recommending the Groups t &OTVSFT JO DPOKVODUJPO XJUI UIF strategy to the Board and for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board.
He is Chairman, that the Company is supported in decision making by an Executive Board of senior managers.
The roles and represented at a business, political responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are documented and have andcommunity level: been approved by the Board.
Their key responsibilities include: t &OTVSFT UIFSF JT B DMFBS NBOBHFNFOU structure with appropriately delegated responsibilities staffed by suitably experienced and qualied staff: and t $IBJST UIF &YFDVUJWF #PBSE Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 46 Senior Independent Director Board decisions and activity Ian Cormack is the Senior Independent The Board is responsible for the Companys strategy and for its overall management.
Director in which capacity he is available to The operation of the Board is documented in a formal schedule of matters reserved shareholders should they wish to discuss for its approval, which is reviewed annually.
These matters include strategy, major governance or other issues that have not capital expenditure projects, corporate governance, major contracts, risk management, been resolved through the normal channels remuneration policy, monitoring performance, internal control, human resources and of communication with the Chairman, or reporting to shareholders.
Chief Executive Officer, or Chief Financial A schedule of regular business, financial and operational matters to be addressed Officer, or in cases when communication bythe Board and its Committees during the course of the year was prepared prior to would be more appropriate with the listing to ensure that all areas for which the Board has responsibility would be reviewed.
The Senior Directors receive Board and Committee papers one week prior to meetings.
Independent Directors role also includes deputising for the Chairman in his absence, Matters considered by the Board during 2013 since listing in June: being available to act as a sounding board Each meeting Annually Throughout the year for the Chairman and to advise and counsel all Board colleagues.
Reports from the Chief Evaluation of Board Detailed consideration Executive including an update effectiveness and approval of Biographical details of all Directors are on trading, performance in transactions including: provided on pages 42 and 43. each of the business areas, t BO BHSFFNFOU UP BDRVJSF personnel, regulatory and the beneficial interest in a strategic matters portfolio of equity release mortgages with a face value of 207m Reports from the Chief Executive and non-executive Discussion of changes to the Financial Officer on the Succession Planning Groups risk prole nancialperformance and position of the Group, investment management, capital management, pricing, financial re-engineering, research and development, reinsurance and investor relations Strategic discussion Off-site strategy day Discussion and approval of Group strategy Updates from the Budget Presentations on the annuity BoardCommittees market and distribution Review of Conicts of Interest Business Plan Shareholder interaction Review of independence Corporate Governance of Directors pursuant to UK Corporate Governance Code Senior management and advisers are invited to attend Board and Committee meetings where appropriate to contribute to discussion and advise members of the Board or its Committees on particular matters.
The involvement of senior management at Board and Committee discussions strengthens the relationship between the Board and senior management and helps to provide the Board with a greater understanding of operations and strategy.
The annual strategy day provides a forum at which all Directors are able to help develop future strategy.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Effectiveness continued commitment to strengthening female also attended two investor conferences, Diversity representation at Board and senior as well as hosting numerous face-to-face Partnership has a comprehensive Company management level.
At Board level, this has meetings with existing and potential Equality and Diversity policy that covers all included requesting that head hunters institutional shareholders.
ensure that a significant proportion of the Communication with institutional long list of candidates is female.
Our recruitment practices have long shareholders also constitutes regular included a commitment to recruit briengs and updates with the analyst Investor Relations and promote employees on the basis community.
A brieng to introduce of the suitability for the job without Partnership to financial services analysts Prior to the Initial Public Offering, discrimination on any grounds.
We offer was held shortly after IPO, and the Partnerships shareholders comprised of exible training and development and Company is now covered by eight analysts funds managed by Cinven Limited, and mentoring programmes to assist all our producing regular independent reports on a number of management and staff of employees achieve their potential, taking the Group.
Since entering the public account of their diverse development markets in June 2013, 36% of the Groups needs against the skills and competencies issued share capital has been oated on Private investors required for their existing and future the London Stock Exchange, introducing a Private investors comprise employee roles.
In addition, our reward practices are much wider shareholder base.
As a result shareholders as well as individual designed to eliminate any race, gender or of this, a dedicated Investor Relations shareholders.
All private investors have age bias.
function has been established within access to the investor website, and have the Group, and a website focussed on When searching for candidates for Board the ability to question the Company information and updates relevant to appointments, Partnership seeks to make through the investor relations function, public shareholders has been set up appointments on merit against objective or the Company Secretarial function.
criteria with due regard for the benets of Performance updates, including the diversity.
Post IPO, Cinven continues to be the presentations made to analysts and majority shareholder, and have Director institutional investors, are available on the We recognise the benefit throughout the representation on the Board.
For public website for anyone to view.
Group in having access to the diversity of shareholders, the Group has engaged in input from people with a wide range of active discussion, both on an individual backgrounds and nationalities.
Annual General Meeting basis, and through attendance at investor The Notice of Annual General Meeting The Board supports the Davies Reviews conferences and organised roadshow is given to shareholders, together conclusion that greater efforts should be events.
Our intention is to develop investor with explanatory notes, at least 20 made in improving the gender balance communication further, with, for example, working days before the meeting.
of corporate boards and that quotas for dedicated investor days, giving investors Separate resolutions are proposed on each female Board representation are not the the opportunity to question a number of substantially separate issue.
the executive management team on topics normally attend the Annual General or themes specic to the business.
The promotion of women to Board Meeting and the Chairmen of the Audit, and other senior positions within the The Board receives regular updates on Remuneration, Risk and Nomination Company is dependent on the recruitment, investor communication activity, changes Committees are available to answer development and retention of women to the shareholder register, and analysis of questions.
For each resolution, the proxy in the workforce, both within the share price performance.
appointment forms provide shareholders Company and in the wider pool of female with the option to direct their proxy executive talent in the business and Institutional investors vote either for or against the resolution professional community.
or to withhold their vote.
The proxy Institutional investors represent appointment form and any announcement The key direct reports of the Chairman and the largest proportion of public of the results of a vote make it clear that a CEO comprise 3 30% females and 7 70% shareholders, and the majority of investor vote withheld will not be counted in the males.
The female representation includes communication is focussed on that calculation of the proportion of the votes a number of key board related roles such as community.
Extensive roadshow events for and against the resolution.
All valid Chief Operating Officer, Chief Risk Officer were held as part of the IPO process in May proxy appointment forms are properly and Group Company Secretary.
and June of 2013, and a further roadshow recorded and counted.
For each resolution, The Board will continue to ensure that was carried out following the interim after the vote has been taken, information appointees are the best candidates to results announcements.
These events on the number of proxy votes for and promote the success of the Company, targeted communication to the largest against the resolution, and the number of that appointments are based on merit institutional investors, and included shares in respect of which the vote was and that they also meet the requirements meetings in London, Edinburgh, New withheld will be made available on the of the Equality Act.
Subject to these York and Boston.
The Chief Executive Companys website.
requirements, we have an ongoing Officer and Chief Financial Officer have Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 48
