CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION Personal Assets Trust is a self-managed investment trust run by its Board, which takes all major decisions collectively.
While Robin Angus has executive duties, all of the Directors regard themselves and one another as equal in the duties and responsibilities they owe to shareholders and accordingly work together as a unitary Board within which the Chairman who is elected by the Directors from among their own number acts as primus inter pares.
The Directors are elected by the shareholders and regard corporate governance and accountability to shareholders as fundamental.
They therefore place considerable emphasis on running the Company in the way they believe to be best suited to the successful management of an investment trust on behalf of its shareholders.
Arrangements appropriate to an investment trust in respect of corporate governance have been made by the Board.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations which are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
The AIC Code can be obtained from the AICs website at www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information to shareholders than if it had adopted the UK Code.
The Board has considered the amendments to the UK Code which apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The Board will report against these amendments in the year ended 30 April 2014.
COMPLIANCE The Company has complied throughout the year, and continues to comply, with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except as disclosed below.
The Board does not consider it appropriate for a Senior Independent Director to be appointed as recommended by provision A.
4.1 of the UK Code, as it operates as a unitary Board.
The Board does not consider it appropriate for Directors to be appointed for a specific term as recommended by principle 4 of the AIC Code and provision B.
The UK Code requires all Directors of FTSE 350 companies to retire annually.
This has been the Companys practice since 2007 and each Director will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and with the exception of Martin Hamilton-Sharp offer himself for re-election.
DIRECTORS All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent in character and judgement and, in the opinion of the Board, there are no relationships or conflicts of interest which are likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
Hamish Buchan, Martin Hamilton-Sharp and Gordon Neilly have served for more than nine years.
However, the Board subscribes to the view expressed within the AIC Code that longserving Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an independent majority, and does not consider that a Directors length of tenure reduces his ability to act independently.
Martin Hamilton-Sharp has indicated that he intends to retire as a non-executive Director of the Company at the Annual General Meeting in July 2013.
