CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED VOTING POLICY The Investment Adviser is to exercise all votes exercisable by the Company in relation to the Companys investments in favour of resolutions proposed by the Boards of investee companies, save where the Board instructs otherwise.
Board decisions regarding voting on corporate resolutions of companies in which the Company invests are a matter for the whole Board.
All resolutions on which the Company is entitled to vote are monitored and, although normally the Company would vote in favour of all Board resolutions, any contentious matters are referred to the Directors by e-mail for comment.
Any Director disagreeing that the Company should cast an affirmative vote informs the Company Secretary and requests that his view be considered by a sub-committee of the Board consisting of any two Directors.
The sub-committee then considers the matter and informs the Director of its conclusion.
Should the Director disagree with the sub-committees conclusion, a full Board meeting is called to consider the matter.
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board welcomes the views of shareholders and places considerable importance on communications with them.
The Investment Adviser reports back to the Board on meetings with shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company and the London Shareholder Meeting provide a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Board.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee, chaired by Stuart Paul and comprising Mr Paul, Martin Hamilton-Sharp, Gordon Neilly and Frank Rushbrook, meets at least twice yearly to coincide with the annual and interim reporting cycle.
The principal role of the Audit Committee is to review the annual and interim financial statements, the Accounting Policies applied therein and to ensure compliance with financial and regulatory reporting requirements.
The Audit Committee also reviews the system of internal controls, the terms of appointment of the Auditors including their remuneration, the objectivity of the Auditors and the terms under which they are appointed to perform non-audit services.
Fees for these services amounted to 10,000 for the year ended 30 April 2013 2012: 12,000.
The Board considers that the provision of such services at this level is cost effective and does not impair the independence of Ernst & Young LLP.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan and comprising Mr Buchan, Stuart Paul and Frank Rushbrook, considers the appointment of new Directors.
The Nomination Committee meets at least annually.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan and comprising Mr Buchan, Martin HamiltonSharp and Gordon Neilly, reviews the Directors fees, employees salaries and the remuneration paid to the Investment Adviser together with the terms and conditions of appointment of the Investment Adviser on an annual basis.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee clearly define the respective Committees responsibilities.
These terms are reviewed annually and are available for inspection on the Companys website.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the year the performance of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and individual Directors was evaluated through a discussion based assessment 20 Personal Assets Trust PLC
