The Board has determined that reporting against the Annual General Meeting AIC Code provides the most appropriate information The Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday to shareholders.
The Companys policies on corporate 2 September 2013 at 12 noon at The Royal Automobile governance can be found on its website.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM as it provides an The report on corporate governance describes how opportunity for them to hear a presentation from the the principles of the AIC Code have been applied.
Investment Manager and meet the Directors.
Application of the AIC codes principles The separate Notice of Meeting contains resolutions The Board attaches great importance to the matters to receive the financial statements, approve the contained in the AIC Code and observed the relevant Directors remuneration report, re-elect retiring requirements throughout the year under review.
Directors, re-appoint the auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
As in previous years the The Board has considered the principles and Directors are also seeking powers to allot shares for recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC cash and to buy back shares for cancellation.
Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide and the Board believes that the Companys  LLP have expressed their current practices are consistent in all material respects willingness to continue in office as the Companys with the principles of the AIC Code.
Where non compliance independent auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint occurs, an explanation has been provided.
The Board will  LLP as independent auditors to continue to observe the principles and recommendations the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
set out in the AIC Code in future.
The full text of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM Directors and Board and an explanation of each resolution is contained in the Independence and composition separate Notice of Meeting.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Companys affairs and currently Report on Corporate Governance consists of seven non-executive Directors six of whom The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the are considered independent.
Each Director has different governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Listing qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead Rules require all listed companies to disclose how where issues arise.
The Chairman is responsible for the they have applied the principles and complied with leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the all aspects of its role.
UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
uk The Directors are listed on pages 42 to 43 along with their biographical details which demonstrate the breadth The Financial Reporting Council confirmed in 2010 that of investment, commercial and professional experience by following the AIC Code of Corporate Governance relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
AIC Code and the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies produced by the AIC, boards of All the Directors, with the exception of Brian Ashfordinvestment companies should fully meet their obligations Russell, were considered independent of the Investment in relation to the UK Code and the UK Listing Rules.
Manager and had no relationship or conflicts which were The AIC code and AIC guide address the principles set likely to affect their independent judgment.
Consequently out in the UK Code as well as additional principles the majority of the Board is independent of the Investment and recommendations on issues that are specific to Manager and the Board considers that its overall investment trusts.
The AIC Code can be viewed at composition is adequate for the effective governance www.
As an investment company most of the day to day The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on responsibilities are delegated to outside parties as the pages 64 and 65.
Company has no employees and all the Directors are non-executive.
Many of the provisions of the UK Code are not directly applicable to the Company.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 55 Directors Report 3 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued Succession planning and diversity Any Director who has served over nine years and stands While the Board recognises the value of progressive for re-election due to length of service is carefully and refreshing of and succession planning for company rigorously assessed by the Nominations Committee to boards, it is conscious of the need to maintain continuity ensure that the Director continues to make a valuable and believes that retaining Directors with sufficient contribution to the Board and remains independent in experience of the Company, industry and the markets is of character and judgement.
The Board is of the opinion Notwithstanding the provisos of the Articles, the UK Code that long service does not necessarily compromise the requires all directors of FTSE350 companies to retire independence or contribution of Directors of investment annually.
Therefore all the Directors will retire at the trusts where continuity and experience can significantly forthcoming AGM and, be eligible, offer themselves for benefit a board, a view supported by the AIC.
re-election with the exception of Peter Dicks who is not seeking re-election.
The Boards policy is to ensure that a balance of skills and experience is maintained and regularly refreshed.
The Nomination Committee led by the Chairman carried out a formal review of each Directors performance, the The Nomination Committee is responsible for the performance of each Board Committee and of the whole composition of the Board and it considers not only the Board as explained in the section on the work of the existing Board but also if further appointments should be Nomination Committee.
The process involved carefully made.
The Nomination Committee seeks to balance the reviewing and rigorously assessed the contribution of each time required, the skills, knowledge and experience of Director standing for re-election and their independence.
individual Directors to form an effective and efficient The Chairman and the Committee have determined Board.
When considering new appointments the that each Director standing for re-election continued Nomination Committee seeks to have a list of candidates to offer relevant experience, effectively contributed for the whole Board to consider that will enhance the Board to the operation of the Board and had demonstrated or replace and refresh skills lost through a Director leaving independent views on a range of subjects.
As such the Board, while it has not set specific targets, it will have regard to the benefits of diversity on The Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination the Board, including gender, when further appointments Committee, supports each of the Directors standing are considered.
As announced last year Peter Dicks will be retiring Directors interests as a director at the conclusion of the AGM on Brian Ashford-Russell is a partner of Polar Capital LLP 2 September 2013. and a shareholder in Polar Capital Holdings plc, the ultimate holding company of Polar Capital LLP and as such Election and retirement of Directors at the AGM he has an interest in the investment management contract.
The Articles of Association the Articles govern the He is therefore not considered to be an independent appointment, re-election and removal of a Director.
However, the Board values the fact that Brian Ashford-Russell, although no longer actively involved in The Articles permits the Board to appoint the day to day management of the portfolio, serves as a further Directors without shareholder approval Director of the Company and gives the Directors and but subject to any such Directors standing for shareholders the benefit of his experience and knowledge.
election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director and has no conflicting relationships.
It should be noted All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three that David Gamble and Michael Moule have a common years and are subject to re-election by shareholders directorship at another investment trust but this is not at a general meeting in accordance with the Articles.
considered to affect their ability to act independently.
The Articles and the Companies Act provide for the No Director, except Brian Ashford-Russell, has any links removal of a Director.
with the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP.
There were no other contracts during or at the end of the year The Articles also states that any Director who has in which a Director of the Company is or was materially served for over nine years should stand for annual interested and which is or was significant in relation to re-election.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 56 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 The Directors interests in the ordinary and subscription Except as disclosed above in relation to Brian Ashfordshares of the Company are set out in the Share Capital Russells interest in the contract with Polar Capital LLP section of the Directors Report.
there were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a Director is or was interested and which Conflicts of interests is or was significant in relation to the Companys business Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they or to the Director.
have or could have a conflict of interest or possible conflict with the interests of the Company.
From October Directors professional development 2008 the Companies Act 2006 permitted public companies When a new Director is appointed he or she is offered to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts if the Articles an induction course provided by the Investment Manager.
of Association contain provisions to this effect.
The Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key Companys Articles contain such provisions.
information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory obligations and internal controls.
Changes The Board has always had in place policies to govern affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the situations where a potential conflict of interests may Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate arise, in particular where a Director is also a director of in professional and industry seminars and may use the a company in which the Company invests or may invest.
online training modules of the Investment Manager to Where such a situation arises, these Directors are ensure they maintain their knowledge.
excluded from any discussions or decisions relating to investments in their respective companies.
The Boards role and responsibilities The Board meets regularly and seven scheduled Board Each Director has provided the Company with a statement meetings were held to deal with the stewardship of the of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest.
There is a formal schedule of These have been approved by the Board and recorded in a matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board.
The Board may impose conditions on authorising During the course of the year the Board has consider the any conflict or potential conflict situations.
Each Director setting and monitoring of investment strategy and guidelines, has agreed to notify the Chairman and the Company portfolio performance, the preparation and review of financial Secretary of any changes to his circumstances which statements, approval of borrowing limits within which the would impact on the notified conflicts or potential conflicts Investment Manager has discretion to act, and shareholder and obtain approval before entering into any situation issues including communications and investor relations.
which might give rise to a conflict or potential conflict with The level of share price discount or premium to Net Asset the interests of the Company.
Value together with policies for re-purchase or issuance of new shares including the use of treasury shares are kept Directors are reminded at each Board meeting of their under review along with matters affecting the industry and obligations to notify any changes in their statement of the evaluation of third party service providers.
conflicts and also to declare any benefits from third parties in their capacity as a Director of the Company Through this process the Board supervises the which might give rise to a conflict or potential conflict with management of the investment portfolio, the work of the the Companys interests.
No Director has declared receipt Investment Manager, the risks to which the Company is of any benefits other than his emoluments in his capacity exposed and their mitigation, and the quality of services as a Director of the Company.
Only Directors not involved in the conflict or potential A strategy board meeting is held each year where future conflict participate in the authorisation process.
Directors in investment ideas are discussed.
Additional meetings of deciding whether to authorise a situation take into account the Board are arranged as required.
their duty to promote the Companys success.
The Board has delegated to a number of standing The Board annually reviews has considered the register of committees specific remits for consideration and conflicts, any conditions imposed on such conflicts or recommendation but the final responsibility in potential conflicts and the operation of the notification and these areas remains with the Board.
They concluded that the process has operated effectively since its introduction.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 57 Directors Report 3 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued Should it be necessary, a procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No such advice has been sought during the past year.
The number of formal meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the financial year and the attendance of individual Directors are shown below.
1 May 2012 to 30 April 2013 Board & Management Strategy Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration AGM Number of Meetings 7 3 2 1 1 1 Michael Moule 7 7 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 Brian Ashford-Russell 7 7 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 Sarah Bates 7 7 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Peter Dicks 6 7 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 David Gamble 7 7 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 Peter Hames 7 7 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 Rupert Montagu 7 7 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Not a member but attended part of the meeting by invitation All Directors attended the 2012 AGM, held on 4 September None of the members of the Audit Committee has any 2012.
A number of ad hoc special purpose Board and involvement in the preparation of the financial statements committee meetings were held during the year for the of the Company, as this has been contracted to the approval of documents, the issue of new shares and Investment Manager.
The Board is satisfied that at least approval of regulatory announcements.
one of the Committees members has recent and relevant financial experience.
Senior Independent Director The Audit Committee has direct access to the auditors and The Board has elected Rupert Montagu to succeed Peter to the key senior staff of the Investment Manager and it Dicks as the Senior Independent Director from the date of reports its findings and recommendations to the Board his retirement on 2 September 2013.
He can be contacted which retains the ultimate responsibility for the financial via the Registered Office of the Company.
Board Committees Non-audit services The Board has created four standing committees whose The Audit Committees policy on the provision of non-audit terms are described below.
The Board also creates ad hoc services by the auditors is to ensure that there is a clear committees from time to time to enact or approve policies separation of audit work and non-audit work and that or actions agreed in principle by the whole Board.
The the cost of any non-audit work is justified and not terms of reference for each of the standing committees disproportionate to the audit fees to the extent that the are available on the Companys website.
independence of the auditors would be compromised.
Audit Committee The Committee reviewed the non-audit work and David Gamble is Chairman of the Audit Committee which considered that PWC was an appropriate provider as comprises all the independent non-executive Directors.
this work related to the on-going VAT reclaim, which The Committee has written terms of reference which was launched as a class action by PWC, and withholding clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
David taxes on overseas investments.
Gamble will be present at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the financial statements.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 58 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 The fees paid to  LLP in respect The Audit Committee annually reviews the performance of the audit of the annual financial statements amounted of  LLP, the Companys external to 29,000 2012: 30,000.
The Company has also used auditor.
In doing so the Audit Committee considers a  LLP to give advice on taxation range of factors including the quality of service, the matters in particular VAT recoverability and recovery of auditors specialist expertise and the level of audit fee.
These taxation services are The independence and effectiveness of the auditors and provided by the London and Newcastle offices while the the nature of the services provided have been assessed audit work is carried out by the Edinburgh office.
The fees throughout the year.
paid for the taxation advice services amounted to 7,000 There are no contractual obligations restricting the 2012: 6,000.
The Directors do not consider the provision choice of external auditor.
Under Company Law the of this non-audit work to the Company affects the reappointment of the external auditor is subject to independence of the auditors.
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Work of the Audit Committee One of the new provisions in the 2012 edition of the UK Code The Audit Committee usually meets three times a year.
states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The scope of the annual audit, the annual report and audited Financial Reporting Council, which publishes the UK Code, financial statements, and the half year report and suggest that the timing of tenders might be aligned with financial statements.
The terms of appointment of the both the cycle for rotating the audit engagement partner auditors and their remuneration are also considered and the length of time since the audit contract was as well as approval and review of any non-audit previously put out to tender.
The Audit Committee will services provided by the auditors.
consider the process during the course of 2013 2014.
Representatives of the Investment Manager report to In the meanwhile the Audit Committee remains satisfied the Committee and it receives reports on the quality with their effectiveness and therefore has not considered and effectiveness of the accounting records and it necessary, to date, to require the external auditors to management information maintained on behalf of the tender for the audit work.
The Audit Committee has Company.
The Committee also considers the internal recommended the reappointment of the auditors at controls and risk management systems applicable to the AGM.
the Company and its key suppliers.
Management Engagement Committee The Committee communicates with the auditors each Michael Moule, as Chairman of the Board, chairs the April to review the scope of the annual audit work and Management Engagement Committee.
All independent meets again each June to review the findings of the non-executive Directors are members of the Management auditors and review the annual report and financial Engagement Committee.
statements prior to recommending approval by the Board.
The auditors are given the opportunity to speak The Committee considers any matter to do with the to the Committee without the representatives of the relationship with the Investment Manager, including the Investment Manager being present.
The Committee also terms of the investment management agreement.
The meets in December each year to consider the half-year committee also has responsibility to conduct the annual report without the auditors present.
review of the services provided by the Investment Manager prior to making its recommendation to the Board, on the There has been nothing brought to the Audit Committees retention of the Investment Manager being in the interests attention in respect of the 2013 audit which was material of shareholders.
This committee meets at least annually or significant or that they felt should be brought to and at such other times as may be necessary.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 59 Directors Report 3 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued Work of the Management Engagement Committee Work of the Nomination Committee In the year to 30 April 2013 it has met twice to consider As referred to in the Chairmans statement the Committee the services provided by the Investment Manager and commissioned an externally facilitated Board evaluation.
terms of the investment management agreement The previous evaluation was conducted in 2009 by Trust with a view to the continued appointment of the Associates and after a selection process the Committee investment manager.
retained BoardAlpha Limited for the current evaluation as they offered a cost effective service which included The recommendation of the Board to continue with Polar interviews with each Director, review of information Capital LLP on the terms agreed is set out on page 52. provided to the Board and Committees, comments from shareholders and observation of the Board and Nomination Committee Committees in action.
The Committee received a written Michael Moule, as Chairman of the Board, chairs the report with recommendations and the Senior Independent Nomination Committee.
All the independent nonDirector received a separate report on the Chairman.
executive Directors are members of the Nomination Committee.
The Committee meets at least annually and is The Committee considered the report and, without the responsible to the Board for the size and structure of the chairman present, considered the separate report from Board as well as for succession planning and the tenure the SID on the Chairman performance.
While there were policy for Directors.
a number of specific recommendations dealing with administrative matters the overall conclusion was Succession planning will be conducted bearing the that the Board has the necessary skills, knowledge, and Boards views on diversity and to achieve a balance of commitment to be effective in the overseeing of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
The the business of the Company.
Committee will make recommendations to the Board when the further recruitment of non-executive Directors T he Nomination Committee has overseen the is required.
The Chairman does not participate in any performance evaluation process and the succession discussion or decision on his role or replacement.
planning designed to replace gradually the longest serving Directors.
Once a decision has been made that additional Directors are to be recruited then candidates will be drawn from Remuneration Committee suggestions put forward by the other Directors and by Peter Dicks, as the Senior Independent Director, is the use of external agencies.
The final selection will be chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The other made by the Board following recommendations by members of the Remuneration Committee are Sarah the Committee.
Rupert Montagu when assuming the role of Senior Independent Director in The Committee also reviews the performance of the September 2013 will take over as Chairman.
Board as a whole and each individual Director.
Reappointment as a Director is not automatic and will follow The Committee meets at least annually and is responsible a process of evaluation of each Directors performance.
for recommending the framework for the remuneration The Board acknowledges the rationale of the UK Code for of Directors.
The Committee reviews the ongoing the rigorous review of Directors serving over six years appropriateness of the remuneration policy and the and annual re-appointment after nine years.
Nevertheless individual remuneration of Directors based on their the Board shares the view of the AIC that length of service contributions.
The fees paid to Directors are detailed will not necessarily compromise the independence or in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 65. contribution of directors of investment trusts where continuity and experience can significantly strengthen a board.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 60 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 The Board has directly appointed the custodian and Performance evaluation the registrars, both of which the Investment Manager The Board monitors and the Investment Manager provides The evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual accountancy services, company secretarial and Directors is carried out annually by the Chairman of the administrative services.
The Investment Manager also Nomination Committee and in accordance with the UK ensures that all Directors receive in a timely manner Code every three years an externally facilitated review is all relevant management, regulatory and financial performed.
In between the external reviews the Chairman information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager undertakes an appraisal using a system that seeks the attend Board meetings enabling the Directors to probe views of each Director by a questionnaire and interviews.
further on matters of concern or seek clarification on The Chairmans review is conducted by the Senior certain issues.
These reviews are reported to the Nomination Committee.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate company secretary through its appointed In evaluating each Director, they are assessed on their representative who is responsible to the Board for relevant experience, their strengths and weaknesses in ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that relation to the overall requirements of the Board and their applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The commitment to the Company in terms of time by regular Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, attendance of Board meetings.
The process is constructed co-operative and open environment.
to assess the contribution of individual Directors to the overall operation of the Board and its Committees as well Accountability and audit as to indentify areas of improvement in the operation of The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Board and its committees.
the financial statements is set out on pages 66 and 67 and The Investment Manager the Independent Auditors Report is on pages 68 and 69.
The Board reviews the performance of the Investment Internal controls Manager at each Board meeting and the Companys The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys performance against the market and a peer group of system of internal control and for reviewing its funds with similar investment objectives.
The Company has no employees as its team provided by the Investment Manager, led by Mr operational functions are carried out by third parties and Rogoff, has long experience of investment in technology.
the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for In addition, the Investment Manager has other investment the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
resources which support the investment team and Contracts with each of these parties were entered into experience in managing and administering other after full and proper consideration by the Board of the investment trust companies.
quality and cost of the services offered, including the The Management Engagement Committee control systems in operation in so far as they relate to regularly reviews the terms of the contract with the affairs of the Company.
The Investment Manager is responsible for the day to day The Board also monitors through the Investment Manager investment management decisions on behalf of the Group the performance of its other service providers including and for the provision of accounting and administrative the custodian and registrar.
services including company secretarial and accounting.
The Investment Manager has an internal control Investment Manager framework to provide reasonable but not absolute The Board has contractually delegated the management assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls of the portfolio to the Investment Manager, Polar Capital operated on behalf of its clients.
The Investment Manager LLP the Investment Manager.
It is the Investment is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Managers sole responsibility to take decisions as to the Authority and its compliance department monitors purchase and sale of individual investments other than compliance with the FCA rules.
unquoted investments where the Board is consulted.
The Investment Manager has responsibility for tactical gearing, asset allocation and sector selection within the limits established and regularly reviewed by the Board.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 61 Directors Report 3 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued The Board has established a process for identifying, The annual review of the risk map and the effectiveness evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the of the system of internal controls taking into account any Company.
The process has been in place since 2000 and is issues was conducted by the Audit Committee assisted by documented through the use of a Risk Map which is subject the Investment Manager.
There were no issue which arose to regular review by the Board and accords with the Revised during the course of the year ended 30 April 2013 and up to Guidance for Directors on the UK Corporate Governance the date of this report which were considered significant.
Code by the Financial Reporting Council.
The controls are The Board reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act embedded within the business and aim to ensure that 2010 and has discussed with the Investment Manager identified risks are managed and systems are in place to their Policy and the controls and monitoring operated by report on such risks.
The internal controls seek to ensure the Investment Manager not only the internal controls but the assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper the steps taken to implement their policy across the main accounting records are maintained and the financial contractors which supply goods and services to the information used in the Group and for publication is reliable.
Investment Manager and the Company.
Controls covering the risks identified, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management are Relations with shareholders monitored by a series of regular reports covering investment The Board and the Investment Manager consider performance, attribution analysis, reports from various third maintaining good communications with shareholders parties and from the Investment Manager including risks not and engaging with larger shareholders through directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
meetings and presentations a key priority.
Shareholders are kept informed by the publication of annual and Operation interim reports which include financial statements.
The process was active throughout the year and up to the These reports are supplemented by interim management date of approval of this annual report.
However, such a statements, the daily release of the net asset value per system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks share to the London Stock Exchange and the publication of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and by the Investment Manager of a monthly factsheet.
All can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance this information together with the Investment Managers against material misstatement or loss.
presentations is available from the Companys website The Board has received formal reports from the at www.
co. uk Investment Manager with details of any known internal The Board is also keen that the AGM be a participative control failures.
The Board considers reports on the event for all shareholders who attend.
The Investment Investment Managers internal controls and systems Managers make a presentation and shareholders are operated by other third party suppliers.
The Board also encouraged to attend.
The Chairmen of the Board and of receives and considers ad hoc reports from the the Committees attend the AGM and are available to Investment Manager and information is supplied to the respond to queries and concerns from shareholders.
The Board also examined the risks Twenty working days notice of the AGM has been given to and controls operated by the Investment Manager shareholders and separate resolutions are proposed in when placing investment trades with third parties.
relation to each substantive issue.
Shareholders may The Investment Manager has delegated the provision of submit questions for the AGM in advance of the meeting or accounting, portfolio valuation and trade processing to make general enquiries of the Company via the company HSBC Securities Services UK Limited but remains secretary at the registered office of the Company.
The responsible to the Company for these functions and Directors make themselves available after the AGM to provided the Board with information on these services.
The Board, through the Audit Committee which is assisted Where the vote is decided on a show of hands, the by the Investment Manager, undertakes an annual review proxy votes received are relayed to the meeting and of the Companys system of internal control where the subsequently published on the Companys website.
Proxy Risk Map is reviewed and control processes considered.
forms have a vote withheld option.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the AGM together with the full The Board will continue to monitor the system of internal text of any special resolutions.
controls in order to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 62 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013
