Directors Report 3 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance The Directors present their Directors Report including Investment Manager to pursue the investment objective, the Business Review and the Report on Corporate given the dynamic and rapid changes in the field of Governance together with the Audited Financial technology, while maintaining a spread of investments.
Statements for the Company and Group prepared under The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones World International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted against by the European Union IFRS for the year ended which net asset value performance of the Company is 30 April 2013. measured for the purpose of assessing performance fees the Benchmark.
From 1 May 2013 the Benchmark Investment Objective, Policy and Strategy will be calculated using a net basis which adjusts the Objective Benchmark income element to reflect withholding taxes The Companys investment objective has since formation which would be suffered by a UK based investor.
been, and will continue to be, to maximise long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of However, the Benchmark is neither a target nor an ideal technology companies around the world.
The purpose of the Benchmark is to set a reasonable return for shareholders of the Policy Company above which the Investment Manager is entitled At the Annual General Meeting in 2012 shareholder to a share of the extra performance it has delivered.
approval was obtained to a simplified investment policy.
This did not change the investment objective but provides Risk Diversification a clear and appropriate set of up to date investment The Company will at all times invest and manage its restrictions in line with the Financial Conduct Authority assets in a manner that is consistent with spreading and HM Revenue and Customs current requirements.
investment risk and invests in a Portfolio comprised primarily of international quoted equities which is The portfolio was managed under and in accordance with diversified across both regions and sectors.
the old policy and restrictions in the year to 30 April 2012 and up to 4 September 2012 when the change was The Company will satisfy the following approved by shareholders.
investment restrictions: Asset Allocation The Companys interest in any one company will Technology may be defined as the application of scientific not exceed 10 per cent.
of the gross assets of the knowledge for practical purposes and technology Company from time to time, save where the Benchmark companies are defined accordingly.
While this offers a weighting of any investee company in the Companys very broad and dynamic investing universe and covers portfolio exceeds this level, in which case the Company many different companies, the portfolio of the Company will be permitted to increase its exposure to such the Portfolio is focused on technology companies investee company up to the Benchmark neutral which use technology or which develop and supply weighting of that company or, if lower, 20 per cent.
technological solutions as a core part of their business of the Companys gross assets.
This includes areas as diverse as information, The Company will have a maximum exposure to media, communications, environmental, healthcare and companies listed on emerging markets as defined renewable energy, as well as the more obvious by the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 25 per cent.
applications such as computing and associated industries.
of its gross assets from time to time.
The Portfolio is constructed without specific reference to The Company may invest in unquoted companies any individual market, index or benchmark and the from time to time, subject to prior Board approval.
Directors regularly discusses asset allocation.
The Board Investments in unquoted companies in aggregate has agreed a set of parameters which are based upon will not exceed 10 per cent.
of the gross assets of current market conditions and provides a range which the Company measured at the time of acquisition guides the Investment Manager depending on market of the relevant investment and whenever the conditions and future expectations.
The Board believes Company increases the relevant holding.
that this provides the necessary flexibility for the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 46 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013
