Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Audit committee and auditor Annual statement by the Chairman of the audit committee This is my first full year as Chairman of the audit committee having taken over the Chair on 1 October 2012.
On appointment I was and continue to be considered as having the recent and relevant financial experience required by the provisions of the Code.
In light of the Financial Reporting Council Stuart Sinclair FRC Guidance on Audit Committees issued Chairman of the audit committee in September 2012 and the Financial Reporting Laboratorys Reporting on Audit Committees issued in October 2013 I have taken the opportunity to personalise the report of the audit committee this year and am presenting the audit committee report as a separate report.
Judgement is applied as to the Update on 2013 activities Audit committee appropriate point at which receivables During the year the committee are impaired and whether past Members: continued to monitor the integrity of payment performance provides Stuart Sinclair Chairman the financial statements of the group a reasonable guide as to the including in particular the annual Rob Anderson collectability of the current receivables and half year reports and the interim book.
Accordingly, this is a primary 1 management statements.
Robert Hough source of audit effort for the groups external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
Manjit Wolstenholme Significant issues and areas of judgement considered by In order to assess the appropriateness 2 Malcolm Le May of the judgements applied, the audit committee 2 Alison Halsey management produce a detailed The following significant issues and report for both the audit committee areas of judgement were considered Attendees by invitation: and the external auditor setting out: by the committee in relation Ken Mullen Company Secretary i the assumptions underpinning to the 2013 Annual Report and and General Counsel the receivables valuation: and ii Financial Statements: a scenario analysis comparing the Peter Crook receivables valuation with alternative Impairment of receivables withinthe valuations based upon various Consumer Credit Division CCD Andrew Fisher forecasts of future cash collections, Receivables are impaired in CCD David Mortlock Head of Audit including prior year performance, when the cumulative amount of two or more contractual weekly payments current performance and Gary Thompson have been missed in the previous budget performance.
Impairment is calculated In assessing the adequacy of CCDs using models which use historical Deloitte LLP External auditor impairment provisions, the committee: payment performance to generate the 1 Retired from the board on 31 January 2013.
Reviewed managements reports estimated amount and timing of future 2 Appointed on 1 January 2014. and challenged management on cash flows from each arrears stage.
the results and judgements used in the test: 94 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Considered the work performed by collections, credit management and not fully meet the strict requirements Deloitte LLP on validating the data arrears management: and of the guidance in relation to used in the testing performed by reporting lines and responsibilities.
Considered the review performed management and their challenge of Accordingly, the following actions were by the Vanquis Bank audit the assumptions used: implemented bythe committee: committee on the Vanquis Bank Considered the findings within the impairment provisions.
The responsibility for the groups report in light of current trading risk management framework, risk Retirement benefit asset performance, expected future management oversight and reporting The valuation of the retirement benefit performance and the potential was transferred from the group Head asset is dependent upon a series of benefit of operational initiatives in the of Audit to the Director of Corporate assumptions.
The key assumptions are business: and Strategy who assumed the additional the discount rate, inflation rates and Considered the work performed role of Head of Risk: mortality rates used to calculate the by the internal audit function on present value of future liabilities.
The dotted reporting line of the information technology controls and group Head of Audit was changed Judgement is applied in formulating operational controls such as cash from the Finance Director to the each of the assumptions used in collections, credit management and Chief Executive: and calculating the retirement benefit arrears management.
It approved a charter for the internal asset.
The committee reviewed the Impairment of receivables at audit function, in accordance advice of the companys external Vanquis Bank with the requirements of the actuary, Towers Watson, who Receivables are impaired in Vanquis guidance.
A copy of the charter is propose the appropriate assumptions Bank when one or more contractual available on the company's website and calculate the valuation of the monthly payment has been missed.
In addition, The impairment provision is calculated the committee considered the However, the committee determined using models which use historical work performed by Deloitte LLP that the Vanquis Bank Head of Internal payment performance to generate and their views on the suitable Audit should continue to report to the estimated amount and timing of ranges of assumptions based on the Vanquis Bank Audit Committee future cash flows from each arrears their experience.
and the Managing Director of Vanquis stage.
Management update the Bank in light of the regulated nature of Taxation methodology monthly to ensure the Vanquis Bank, the unique nature of the The group provides for tax liabilities assumptions accurately take account groups structure and the importance based on an assessment of the of the current economic environment, of maintaining the independence, probability of such liabilities falling product mix and recent customer accountability and governance due.
Judgement is applied to payment performance.
determine the quantum of such Judgement is applied on whether The group internal audit function liabilities and the probability of them past payment performance is a good continues to validate and oversee the occurring.
The committee considers indication of how a customer may work of the Vanquis Bank internal audit managements assessment of the pay in the future.
Accordingly, this is function and this includes a formalised likelihood and quantum of any a primary source of focus for Deloitte escalation procedure.
The committee potential liability and the views and LLP during the audit process.
was satisfied with the quality and work performed by Deloitte LLP in depth of the group internal audit considering the reasonableness of In assessing the adequacy of Vanquis function which it believes mitigates theassessment carried out.
Banks impairment provisions, any risks that might arise from the the committee: Other matters considered by the retention of the Vanquis Bank internal committee in 2013 Reviewed the work performed by audit reporting lines.
In addition, during the year the Deloitte LLP on validating the data The committee also reviewed the committee also considered the used and their challenge of the content of the 2013 Annual Report and guidance: Effective Internal Audit in assumptions used by management: Financial Statements and advised the the Financial Services Sector issued Considered the findings in light of board that, taken as a whole, it was by the Chartered Institute of Internal current trading performance and fair, balanced and understandable and Auditors in July 2013.
Whilst it was expected future performance: provided the necessary information satisfied that overall the group internal Considered the work performed for shareholders to assess the audit function was in line with the by the internal audit function on group's performance, business model guidance, particularly regarding overall information technology controls and and strategy.
objectives, direction, risk appetite, operational controls such as cash resources and skills, itnoted that it did 95 Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Audit committee and auditor continued The committee will continue to assess General role of Composition of the performance of the external thecommittee thecommittee auditor on an ongoing basis to ensure General The other members of the committee that they are satisfied with the quality The primary function of the committee during 2013, Rob Anderson and of the services provided.
In accordance is to assist the board in fulfilling its Manjit Wolstenholme, both have a with the Code the external audit oversight responsibilities by reviewing wide range of business and financial contract will be put out to tender at the financial statements of the group experience which is evidenced by least every 10 years.
and other financial information before their biographical summaries on In accordance with best practice and publication.
In addition, the committee pages 76 and 77.
The capability of guidance from the Financial Reporting also reviews: the committee has been significantly Council, the committee will continue strengthened by the appointment of The systems of internal financial, to review the qualification, expertise, Malcolm Le May and Alison Halsey who operational and compliance controls resources and independence of the joined the committee on 1 January on a continuing basis, and the external auditor and the effectiveness 2014.
They also have considerable arrangements and procedures in of the audit process during the next recent and relevant business and place to deal with whistleblowing, financial year.
financial experience as evidenced by fraud and bribery: and their biographical details set out on The committee has adopted a policy page 76 and 77.
The accounting and financial on the appointment of staff from the reporting processes, along with external auditor to positions within the Internal audit the roles and effectiveness of both various group finance departments.
the internal audit function and the The group operates an in-house It grades appointments into four external auditor.
internal audit function also managed categories and sets out the approvals by the group Head of Audit with required.
Neither a partner of the audit The ultimate responsibility for specialist services provided by thirdfirm who has acted as engagement reviewing and approving the Annual party consultants where necessary.
partner, the quality review partner, Report and Financial Statements The internal audit function also reports other key audit partners or partners remains with the board.
to the committee which helps to in the chain of command, nor Specific ensure the functions independence a senior member of the audit The committee is also specifically from group management, and the engagement team, may be employed responsible for: committee reviews regular reports on as Group Finance Director, Group the activity of this function.
Financial Controller or a divisional All matters relating to the Finance Director.
appointment and reappointment External auditor of the external auditor, the auditors At its February and July meetings, The committee considers the remuneration and the policy on the the committee had a separate session reappointment of the external auditor, supply of non-audit services to the with the external auditor without any company by the external auditor: including the rotation of the audit executive director or employee of partner, annually.
This also includes an Approving the internal audit the company or group being present.
assessment of the external auditors plan annually: This gives members of the committee independence and an assessment of Keeping under review the the opportunity to raise any issues, the performance in the previous year, effectiveness of the groups system including any issues on the final taking into account detailed feedback of internal controls by considering results of the group directly with the from directors and senior management internal audit activity reports at each external auditor.
meeting and reporting to the board I also meet separately with the Head of on a regular basis.
The committee The external auditor is required to Audit on a quarterly basis.
also reviewed and approved the rotate the audit partner responsible statement set out on page 87 for the group audit every five years.
Non-audit work concerning internal controls and risk The current lead audit partner has The company has a formal policy on management: and been in place for one year.
The group the use of auditors for non-audit work.
carried out a rigorous audit tender Reviewing and approving the This policy is reviewed annually.
This was five years register of benefits offered to following the demerger of the directors in accordance with The award of non-audit work to the groups international division in 2007. the companys code of practice auditor is managed in order to ensure As a result of the tender, Deloitte LLP on benefits.
that the auditor is able to conduct an replaced  LLP independent audit and is perceived as the groups external auditor.
96 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued to be independent by the groups approve in advance any single Fees paid to Deloitte LLP for non-audit shareholders and other stakeholders.
award of non-audit work with an work during the year amounted to aggregate cost of 250,000 or more.
93,000 2012 : 107,000 comprising The performance of non-audit work by The auditor may not perform internal 50,000 for the group interim review, the external auditor is minimised and audit work.
Accordingly, following the 25,000 for comfort letters in respect work is awarded only when, by virtue appointment of Deloitte LLP as the of the 2013 retail bond, 10,000 for of their knowledge, skills or experience, groups auditor, they ceased to provide the review of profits for regulatory the auditor is clearly to be preferred supporting external resource to the reporting purposes and 8,000 over alternative suppliers.
internal audit function, although they for agreed upon procedures work did complete a review which was in throughout the year.
The group maintains an active progress.
External specialist resource relationship with at least two other Effectiveness for the internal audit function is now professional accounting advisors.
The nature and cost of all nonThe committee formally considered audit work awarded to the groups its effectiveness in 2013.
On the basis During the year, the committee external auditor for the period since of the external board and committee regularly considered a schedule of the last meeting and for the year to evaluation undertaken, the overall audit and non-audit work carried date is reported to each meeting view was that the committee was out by Deloitte LLP.
This fell broadly of the committee, together with an operating efficiently and effectively.
into four categories: fees payable for explanation as to why the auditor was It was, however, agreed that the audit of the parent company and the preferred supplier.
consideration should be given to the consolidated financial statements: timing of the committee meetings to No information technology, audit of the companys subsidiaries ensure that adequate time was made remuneration, recruitment, valuation pursuant to legislation: other available to discuss all of the issues in or general consultancy work may services pursuant to legislation: and sufficient detail.
be awarded to the auditor without tax services.
my prior written approval and such approval is only given in exceptional Stuart Sinclair circumstances.
I am required to Chairman of the audit committee 25 February 2014 Audit committee calendar in 2013 At specific meetings: February 2 meetings July 2 meetings December Review of full-year results including: Review of interim results, including: Proposed internal audit plan for 2014 External auditors report for the year External auditors report for the six Annual report on external whistleblowing ended 31 December months ended 30 June activity Draft preliminary announcement for the Draft interim results announcement Review of register of benefits received year ended 31 December bydirectors Discussion with the external auditor Draft Annual Report and Financial without any executive director or Review of performance and effectiveness Statements for the year ended employeepresent of the committee 31December Review of effectiveness of external auditor Board statement on internal controls within the Annual Report and Financial At each main meeting Statements October Discussion with the external auditor Review of minutes of previous meetings without any executive director or Review of implementation of actions from employee present External Auditors planning report for previous meetings forthcoming year-end Recommendation to the board regarding Review of Vanquis Bank audit Review of the new Audit Committee reappointment of auditor committeeminutes Reporting Requirements Internal audit activity reports Review of the requirements of the Schedule of fees paid to the external guidance: Effective Internal Audit in the auditor, including for any non-audit work Financial Services Sector issued by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors Fraud report 97
