Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Leadership The board has recently updated its and soundness objectives.
The boards to report on compliance with the terms of reference in accordance five committees have also updated corporate policies manual on a with the Institute of Chartered their terms of reference in light of the biannual basis.
Secretaries and Administrators ICSA guidance and full details can Following the reduction in the number ICSA guidance notes issued in July be found on the companys website of executive directors, the opportunity 2013.
The terms of reference include at www.
was taken to realign the terms of a schedule of matters specifically In particular, the audit committee reference of the executive committee reserved to the board for decision, terms of reference have been updated with those of the group management including responsibility for leadership to address the new financial and committee.
At the same time, the and setting the groups values and narrative reporting requirements group management committee standards: corporate strategy: imposed on audit committees which was renamed the group executive approval of budgets and financial include, inter alia, the role of the audit committee and now comprises the two results, new board appointments, committee to report to the board executive directors together with the dividend payment proposals, all that the Annual Report and Financial managing directors of the Consumer major transactions, extension of the Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, Credit Division and Vanquis Bank, groups activities into new markets or balanced and understandable and the General Counsel and Company geographies, appointment or removal provide the necessary information for Secretary, the Director of Corporate of the Company Secretary: litigation shareholders to assess the groups Strategy and Risk and the Director which is material to the groups performance, business model and of Corporate Affairs.
The executive interests: authorisation of directors strategy.
In addition, the group has committee deals with matters relating interests that conflict, or may conflict, a detailed corporate policies manual to the running of the group, other with the interests of the company: which sets out authority levels within than those reserved to the board and approval of the Vanquis Bank the group, which was last reviewed and those specifically assigned to the other controls required by the Prudential updated in July 2012.
The additional matters Regulation Authoritys PRA safety and the corporate office are required Chairman Chief Executive Responsible for the operational performance Chairs the board, the nomination committee of the group and leads the executive committee, and the AGM.
the group executive committee, and the rest of the senior Responsible for carrying out the annual evaluation of the board.
Ensures all directors are able to maximise their Monitors the performance of the other executive director.
contribution as members of the board.
Responsible for overseeing the corporate social responsibilities Makes sure, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, ofthe group.
that the board is kept properly informed With the Finance Director, monitors the risk appetite framework, andconsulted on all matters reserved to it.
the key group risks, the divisional risk registers and the With the Chief Executive makes sure the views of various internal management systems in place.
shareholders are known to the board through the Investor Relations report tabled at each board meeting.
Develops the groups strategy with the Director of Corporate Strategy and Risk for review Works closely with the Chief Executive on at the annual Corporate Planning Conference.
key business decisions and challenges With the Finance Director, maintains an effective dialogue proposals where appropriate.
With the Director of Corporate Affairs, maintains key relationships with the Government, relevant regulators and opinion formers.
DELIVERING Chairs the boards of Vanquis Bank and the CCD.
DECISIONS FOR EFFECTIVE KNOWLEDGE ExPERIENCE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GROUP Non-executive directors Company Secretary Provide independent and Secretary to the board and each of constructive challenge.
its committees, reporting directly to their Chairmen.
Represent a broad range of experience Facilitates the induction of new directors to the board and independent judgement.
Make a significant contribution to the direction Assists the Chairman and Senior Independent Director and strategy of the group through participation in in the evaluation of the board.
the annual Corporate Planning Conference.
Keeps the board and its committees fully informed on Evaluate and offer multiple, independent and governance policies and practices.
informed views on the risks, consequences and Manages the provision of timely and accurate information possible implications inherent in any board decision.
to the board and its committees for their meetings.
78 EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued reserved to it, which were previously Advisory l a review of the overall performance reserved to the board, include All directors are able to consult of the group and identification of changes to the groups management with the Company Secretary, who those areas of the business which is secretary to all of the board and control structure, management could be developed further or which committees.
The appointment and development and succession planning, required repositioning: removal of the Company Secretary appointments to the finance forum isamatter for the board.
l a discussion on the general and treasury committee, and approval macro-economic environment of the appointment and removal of There is also a formal procedure financial advisers and city solicitors.
inwhich the group operates: by which any director may take There is a formal schedule of matters independent professional advice l a review of the UK non-standard reserved to it for decision which can relating to the performance of lending market including an analysis be found on the companys website.
any aspect of their duties at the of the main competitors of CCD The terms of reference of the group companys expense.
in the unsecured lending part of executive committee include certain Risk management matters which were previously the market: Identification and management of risk reserved to the executive committee is central to the creation of long-term l a review of the CCD business including the review and approval of shareholder value and is overseen by model including an update on budgets, approval and monitoring the risk advisory committee on behalf the modernisation programme of the corporate responsibility of the board.
The board receives and a presentation from the programme and its budget, review regular updates on the key group risks Commercial Director on the and approval of the corporate policies and ensures that the risk management growth opportunities: manual, approval of the treasury framework and the risk profile for policies, approval of any political the group support its strategic goals.
l a presentation by the Managing donations, review of the group risks In light of the change in the regulatory Director on the trading performance and controls, and the development environment in which the group will of Vanquis Bank and a review of the and implementation of arange of operate from 1 April 2014, conduct risk strengths, weaknesses opportunities group policies.
and particularly customer outcomes and threats to the current model in has been added to the risk dashboard an ever changing competitive and The right team of CCD which together with the regulatory environment: Chairman conduct risk dashboard established by In addition to the responsibilities set Vanquis Bank whilst regulated by the l a progress update from the Vanquis out in the diagram on page 78, John FSA, are considered key risks for the Bank Commercial Director on the Van Kuffeler chaired the boards of group.
The risk advisory committee is Polish pilot and a review of the Hyperion Insurance Group Limited responsible on behalf of the board for outline business plan: and Marlin Financial Group Limited.
monitoring the key metrics identified These appointments did not involve by both divisions in the management l a restatement of the groups more than two and a half days work of conduct risk and ensures in business model, mission, vision and per week.
particular that customer outcomes strategy and a decision to explore remain central to the groups risk identified opportunities to develop In addition to the responsibilities management programme.
set out in the diagram on page 78, Strategy Manjit Wolstenholme is also a The board is responsible for the non-executive director of Future plc, As part of the output from the 2013 development of, and changes to, The Unite Group plc and Aviva external board evaluation and in light the group strategy.
In addition to Investors Holding Limited.
These of the new composition of the board the regular discussion and review at appointments involve no more than it has been decided to adopt a new board meetings of progress against one and a half days work per week approach for the 2014 CPC which will this strategy, an annual two-day and there have been no material Corporate Planning Conference provide a clearer focus on strategy and changes in her other commitments CPC is held which is dedicated to longer-term strategic issues including since her appointment as Chairman reviewing and developing the groups strategic choices to enhance the on 1 January 2014. strategy.
The CPC is attended by all groups competitive advantage.
This is Senior Independent Director SID board members, the General Counsel likely to involve a different approach Following the appointment of Manjit and Company Secretary and the to the process and content and will Wolstenholme as Chairman, Malcolm Director of Corporate Strategy and involve facilitated discussions, working Le May assumed the role of SID on Risk.
In addition, in 2013 the Managing sessions, case studies and a significant 1 January 2014.
He will be available Director and Commercial Director degree of emphasis on customer to shareholders, and will act as a ofVanquis Bank and the Commercial outcomes and conduct risk.
sounding board for the other directors Director of CCD attended the CPC and asaconfidante for the Chairman.
andthe agenda included: 79 Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Leadership continued Attendance at board and committee meetings Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk advisory Board committee committee committee committee Total number of meetings in 2013 9 6 5 7 3 1 John van Kuffeler 9 4 Peter Crook 9 6 5 Andrew Fisher 9 6 3 2 Chris Gillespie 6 4 Rob Anderson 9 6 5 7 3 Manjit Wolstenholme 9 6 5 7 3 Stuart Sinclair 9 6 5 6 3 1 Retired on 1 January 2014.
Board composition At each main meeting Review anddiscuss: Strategic matters Acquisition opportunities Trading results and KPIs Management accounts and financial commentary Operational reports from each division Treasury matters Legal, company secretarial and regulatory matters Board committee matters Investor relations and shareholder feedback Corporate affairs Review of: Minutes of previous meetings Executive director Minutes of the meetings of the executive committee Review of implementation of actions agreed at Non-executive director previous meetings Company Secretary Live version Live version Live version Ungroup Ungroup Ungroup Sector experience Board composition Tenure Copy lines dividing segments Copy lines dividing segments Copy lines dividing segments Paste on top Paste on top Paste on top Correct stack order Correct stack order Correct stack order 1.
Non- 14% Executive 70% 80 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Key board discussions Board calendar in 2013 and actions During 2013, the board discussed and January July implemented the following key actions: Review of the growth opportunities for CCD Review and approval of the interim results including: It identified the need to address Approval of new counterparty limits under the Report of the audit committee treasury policy certain operational issues within CCD Interim results announcement and developed a revised strategy to Results presentation reposition the business as a broader Recommendation regarding the interim dividend lending business which involved the Review of divisional and corporate office February compliance with the corporate policies manual repositioning of home credit and Approval of updated counterparty limits the introduction of a new online Review of CCD advertising campaign Approval of external board appointment for a instalment loan product.
non-executive director Accepted the audit committee recommendation to reappoint the auditor It commissioned Independent Board Review and approval of the annual results, including: Evaluation to carry out an evaluation September Report of the audit committee of its performance and that of its Review of international expansion plans for Preliminary announcement committees and individual directors.
Vanquis Bank Results presentation Approval of the Vanquis Bank recovery and The composition of the board was Annual Report and Financial Statements resolution plan for submission to the FCA reviewed which resulted in: a the Report of the remuneration committee Received a PRA update appointment of Manjit Wolstenholme Consider a recommendation regarding the Acceptance of the resignation of an final dividend as Chairman following the retirement executive director Review of divisional health and safety ofJohn van Kuffeler: b the Acceptance of a recommendation from annual reports the nomination committee that the board recruitment of two new independent be restructured to include only two Approval of proposals to be submitted non-executive directors: c the executive directors to the AGM reduction in the number of executive Review of divisional and corporate office compliance with the corporate policies manual directors to two following the Consideration of a benchmark report on resignation of Chris Gillespie: and d October non-executive director fees the appointment of Malcolm Le May Approval of the update to the groups EMTN Review of CCD revised strategy as the SID.
programme and the issue of a fourth retail Review and approval of interim bondunder the programme management statement It changed the composition Receive an update of board and and chairmanship of the board committee terms of reference committees following the change in board composition which will also May address the new requirements arising November from regulation by the FCA.
Review and approval of the CCD revised Review of corporate governance reports on strategy and presentation for the Investor AGM resolutions andAnalyst Event It proposed the establishment of a Review and approval of interim management Share Incentive Plan for all employees statement and renewal of the Performance Two-day CPC December Share Plan and the Save As You Earn Scheme, all of which were approved Update on CPC 2013 actions June by the shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Review and approval of 2014 budget Review of results of board evaluation Review of the Pension Scheme for It approved the renewal of the Republic of Ireland employees Agreement of actions from board evaluation groups 382.5m syndicated bank Review of the CPC conclusions and actions Review of independence of facility through to May 2017. non-executive directors Review and approval of the 2013 budget update Review of group tax strategy Review of the proposed CCD It realigned the roles and responsibilities redundancy programme Acceptance of a recommendation from the of risk management and internal nomination committee to appoint two new non-executive directors audit following publication of the Review of proposed CCD guidance: Effective Internal Audit redundancy programme in the Financial Services Sector Review of results of annual health issued by the Chartered Institute of and safety audit Internal Auditors.
