Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Nomination committee The committee keeps under review a detailed succession plan for the executive directors, the Chairman and the persons discharging managerial responsibility.
Below board level, succession planning safeguards the pipeline of talented individuals within the group who are capable and have potential to succeed the executive directors Manjit Wolstenholme and other members of the senior management Chairman of the nomination committee team in the short, medium and long term.
As a consequence, a series of bespoke training anddevelopment plans have been prepared andarebeing implemented as appropriate.
General duties Nomination committee Role and responsibilities The committee ensures that the Members: Regularly reviews the balance of directors on the board 1 structure, size and composition Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman remains appropriate as the group of the board, and makes develops.
Succession planning allows 2 John van Kuffeler recommendations for change to the board to analyse the balance the board to ensure it remains 3 Robert Hough of skills, experience and knowledge constantly refreshed.
in the boardroom and identify and Rob Anderson address any gaps as part of the Consideration of the succession natural refreshment of the board.
planning for directors and Stuart Sinclair It has a formal schedule of matters the senior management team 4 Malcolm Le May reserved to it for decision which can to ensure the succession of be found on the company's website at candidates is managed smoothly 4 Alison Halsey www.
Attendees by Invitation: The committee keeps under review Identification and nomination of Ken Mullen Company Secretary a detailed succession plan for the candidates for approval by the and General Counsel executive directors, the Chairman and board to fill board vacancies.
the persons discharging managerial 5 Peter Crook Evaluation of the balance of responsibility.
Below board level, 1 skills, knowledge, experience and Appointed Chairman 1 January 2014 succession planning safeguards the following the retirement of John van diversity on the board before any pipeline of talented individuals within Kuffeler.
appointments and preparation the group who are capable and have 2 Retired from the board on 1 January 2014. of a description of the role 3 potential to succeed the executive Retired from the board on 31 January 2013.
4 and the capabilities required Appointed on 1 January 2014. directors and other members of the 5 Ceased to be member from 1 January 2014. for a particular appointment.
senior management team in the short, The committee is required to medium and long term.
consider candidates on merit and The boards policy on diversity is set against objective criteria with due out in the Chairmans letter in the regard to the benefits of diversity corporate governance report on on the board, including gender.
98 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Nomination committee calendar in 2013 At specific meetings: February March May Review of the performance and Identification of potential internal Review of the report on internal candidates effectiveness of the committee to succeed the Chairman candidates to succeed the Chairman Establish a process to identify a successor Recommendation to the board to appoint Manjit Wolstenholme as Chairman Chairman with external assistance Appointment of a sub-committee September November At each main meeting Consideration of a status report on the Consideration of a short list of candidates Review of minutes of previous meetings recruitment of two non-executive directors for the two non-executive director positions Review of implementation of actions arising Succession planning update on the most Recommendation to the board to appoint from previous meetings senior positions in the group Malcolm Le May and Alison Halsey as non-executive directors with effect from 1 January 2014 The sub-committee interviewed the Replacement of Chairman Appointment of two internal candidates who had With the assistance of Egon Zehnder non-executive directors expressed an interest in the role of who have signed up to the voluntary With the assistance of Ridgeway Chairman and used Egon Zehnder to code of conduct on gender diversity Partners, a recruitment consultancy assist in benchmarking them against best practice, a sub-committee of the firm who have signed up to the the marketplace.
Following a rigorous nomination committee, comprising voluntary code of conduct on interview process using detailed Rob Anderson as Chairman and Peter gender diversity best practice, the candidate reports prepared by Egon Crook, updated the job specification committee recommended to the Zehnder which included external for the Chairman role and conducted board the appointment of Malcolm references, the sub-committee interviews with two potential internal Le May and Alison Halsey as nonrecommended to the board the candidates.
Neither of the internal executive directors with effect from appointment of Manjit Wolstenholme candidates nor the retiring Chairman 1 January 2014. as Chairman.
She was appointed on were involved in the process.
As part of the process to replace the Egon Zehnder had previously advised retiring Chairman the sub-committee the committee on the recruitment initially considered two internal of Stuart Sinclair as an independent candidates as opposed to initiating an non-executive director in 2012 and external search as the committee had had assisted in the development only recently carried out a recruitment of succession plans for the Chief search for an independent nonExecutive, executive directors executive director with potential to and other members of the senior succeed the Chairman and so the data management team.
on potential candidates was still valid.
99 Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Nomination committee continued Succession planning Effectiveness As part of the senior management At its meeting in February 2014 the succession programme, the Chief committee formally considered its Executive engaged Ridgeway Partners effectiveness in 2013, and on the to carry out an assessment of certain basis of the external board and members of the senior management committee evaluation undertaken, the team and assist in the creation overall view was that the committee of development plans for those was working effectively.
The report participants who were identified as recommended however that the Chief having potential in relation to certain Executive should not, in line with key executive positions.
The process best practice, be a member of the involved psychometric tests and committee and that there should be feedback interviews with selected an even greater focus on succession line managers, peers and direct planning in order to mitigate against reports.
The project focused on future the risk of significant key person loss.
senior leadership potential, identified During 2014 the committee therefore development priorities for each intends to: i develop the succession participant and provided an analysis of planning work commenced by the each participant's potential relative to Chief Executive, with the assistance the positions of group Chief Executive, of Ridgeway Partners: and ii divisional Managing Director and group carry out further work in order to Finance Director.
prioritise the skills and experience ofboard members.
The board has considered the report in detail and although no general The board requested that Peter themes or topics for development Crook step down as a member of were identified as being applicable the committee which he did with to the whole group, it has requested effect from 1 January 2014.
He agreed the committee to work with the however to attend future meetings Chief Executive to develop individual by invitation.
development plans for each of the Further details of the committee's participants which are personal and work during the year are set out specific.
The development plans will be inthetable on page 99. monitored by the committee as part of its regular review of the group wide succession plan.
Manjit Wolstenholme The report also confirmed that all the Chairman of the nomination committee participants were performing strongly 25 February 2014 in their current roles.
Ridgeway Partners do not provide anyother services to the group.
