Risk Committee report Governance Corporate governance codes Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 83 Reporting position against risk limits are reviewed business units to the various Group-level regularly by the Group Executive Risk risk committees and, where appropriate, The Committee is provided with regular reports on the activities of the risk function Committee, the Committee and the Board.
Each business unit reviews the Key economic capital metrics, as well as risks inherent in their business operations and, where it affects the results of the assurances under the Turnbull compliance risk-adjusted profitability information, are as part of the annual preparation of their included in the business plans which are business plan, and subsequently, these statement, the Audit Committee also receives appropriate reporting from the reviewed by the Group Executive Risk opportunities and risks are regularly Committee, the Committee and the Board.
reviewed against business objectives with same function.
Reports to the Committee include information on the activities of Routine internal reporting by the Group Risk.
The impact of large business units varies according to the transactions or divergences from the the Group Executive Risk Committee, the Group Operational Risk Committee, nature of the business, with each business agreed business plan are also reviewed unit responsible for ensuring that its risk and reported by Group Risk.
the Group Credit Risk Committee, the Solvency II Technical Oversight reporting framework meets both the needs of the respective business unit Remuneration Committee Committee, the Technical Actuarial Committee and the Group Compliance and the standards set by the Group Risk The report on the responsibilities and function.
Clear escalation criteria and activities of the Remuneration Committee Committee, as well as reports from Group-wide Internal Audit.
processes are in place for the timely can be found in the directors remuneration reporting of risks and incidents by report, which is set out on pages 89 to 123.
The Groups capital position and overall Corporate governance codes In line with its listings on the London and B.
1.2 d of the HK Code, the responsibilities have been applied as set out earlier in the Hong Kong stock exchanges, Prudential of the Remuneration Committee do not corporate governance report and also in the applies the principles of the UK and include making recommendations to the directors remuneration report, which can HK codes.
Board on the remuneration of non-executive be found on pages 89 to 123.
The UK Code The Board confirms that it has complied directors.
In line with the principles of the UK can be viewed on the Financial Reporting with all relevant provisions set out in the UK Code, fees for non-executive directors are Councils website, with the HK Code and HK Codes throughout the accounting determined by the Board.
available on the website of the Hong Kong period.
With respect to Code Provision The principles of the UK and HK Codes Stock Exchange.
