Governance Corporate governance report Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 69 Corporate governance report Strong and appropriate governance supporting business growth Board has authority for the management of that Role of the Board respective business unit and each has The Board is accountable for the long-term established a management board comprised success of the Group and for providing of its most senior executives.
leadership within a framework of effective In performing its duties, the Board has controls.
The control environment enables access to the services of the Group Company the Board to identify significant risks and Secretary who advises on corporate apply appropriate measures to manage and governance matters, Board procedures and mitigate them.
The Board is responsible for compliance with the applicable rules and setting strategic targets and for ensuring regulations.
Directors have the right to seek that the Group is suitably resourced to independent professional advice at the achieve those targets.
In doing so, the Groups expense and copies of such advice The composition of the Board Board takes account of its responsibilities are circulated to other directors where remains key to achieving the to the Groups stakeholders, including applicable and appropriate.
the Groups employees, shareholders, suppliers and the communities in which Roles and responsibilities Dear shareholder Prudential operates.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Good governance is central to how The Board has terms of reference which Executive are separate and clearly defined.
we do business at Prudential.
The specifically set out matters reserved for The scope of these roles is approved and Board ensures that our governance its decision.
These include matters such kept under regular review by the Board policies, structures and processes so that no individual has unfettered are strong and appropriate, and play as setting the Groups strategy and monitoring its implementation, the decision-making powers.
a key part in supporting the growth of the business.
approval of annual budgets and business plans, as well as the risk appetite of the In a world of ever-increasing Roles complexity and connectedness, Group and its capital and liquidity positions.
The Board has approved a Chairman governance requirements are The Chairman is responsible for the continually developing.
As well governance framework, and under these procedures all business units are required leadership and governance of the Board, as complying with relevant codes, and ensuring that sufficient time is available we are always well prepared for to seek approval from the Board for matters exceeding pre-determined authority limits.
for discussion of all agenda items.
The new developments, keeping Chairman facilitates the contribution of abreast of upcoming changes and The Board has delegated authority to a number of board committees which assist the non-executive directors and fosters ensuring that our governance is constructive relationships between the adjusted accordingly.
the Board in delivering its responsibilities and ensuring that there is appropriate non-executive and executive directors A vital part of good governance is by promoting a culture of openness transparency, and we are committed independent oversight of internal control and risk management.
Each of these committees and debate.
to reporting on our governance as clearly as possible, ensuring has established terms of reference and is comprised of independent non-executive Group Chief Executive that it remains the best available, The Group Chief Executive is responsible and continues to make a strong directors, with the exception of the Nomination Committee which, in keeping for the management of the Group and the contribution to the long-term implementation of the strategy and policy success of the Group.
with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, is chaired by approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for the Board and its committees are regularly Senior Independent Director Chairman The principal responsibilities of the Senior reviewed to ensure that they remain in line with best practice and the committees Independent Director are to act as a conduit to the Board for the communication of continue to have appropriate authority to fulfil their responsibilities, without creating shareholder concerns when other channels may be inappropriate and to lead the unnecessary duplication of work.
The Board has also delegated authority non-executive directors in carrying out the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
for the operational management of the Groups businesses to the Group Chief Non-executive directors Executive for execution or further delegation by him in respect of matters which are The non-executive directors are independent of management, bringing necessary for the effective day-to-day running and management of the business.
effective and constructive challenge to the deliberations of the Board.
The chief executive of each business unit 70 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate governance report continued The full biographical details of the directors, directors and the Group Chief Executive Diversity including the skills and experience they bring is evaluated by the Chairman in individual Board composition to the Board, can be found on pages 64 to 68. meetings.
Philip Remnant, the Senior Independent Director, led the nonSuccession planning executive directors in a performance The Board is actively engaged in succession evaluation of the Chairman.
Chairman 6% planning for both executive and non-executive Executive directors are subject to Executive 44% roles to ensure that Board composition is regular review and the Group Chief regularly refreshed and that the Board retains Executive individually appraises the Non-executive 50% its effectiveness at all times.
This is delivered performance of each of the executive through an established review process applied directors as part of the annual Group-wide across all businesses which covers both performance evaluation of all staff.
executive director and senior management succession and development, and also Diversity through the work of the Nomination The Group seeks, through its diversity policy, Committee as described more fully on page 78. to encourage the recruitment and retention Regional experience The Board considers annually the outcome of talented individuals from a diverse range of the review and any actions arising from of backgrounds.
Furthermore, the Board the review are implemented as part of the remains committed to inclusion in all its forms United Kingdom 44% management development agenda.
and believes that leading companies seek Global 31% out, and not simply tolerate, diversity.
Board performance evaluation The inclusion of women in the recruitment The 2013 performance evaluation of the Board process extends to the Board and is an and its principal committees was internally important diversity consideration during Asia 13% facilitated through the use of a questionnaire searches for new Board members.
Prudential United States 12% and carried out by the Chairman and Group embraces the proposition that more women Company Secretary.
The findings were on boards would be advantageous to presented to the Board in February 2014 and companies, as well as to society at large.
The an action plan is being agreed to address any Group remains duty bound to recruit the best Sector areas identified by the review.
In accordance available talent, and although the Board does with the UK Code, it is intended that the 2014 not endorse quotas, it does commit to having review will be carried out by external facilitators.
an increasing representation of women in Government regulatory The performance of the non-executive senior positions in the Group and on the Board.
12% Other financial services 19% 2012 Board performance evaluation Finance 38% A summary of the Boards progress against a number of actions arising from its 2012 Insurance 31% effectiveness review can be found below: Theme Action taken Information flows to the Board Improvements to Board papers continued with a view Tenure of non-executive directors and principal committees to streamlining and enhancing the flow of information to the Board and its committees facilitating effective decision making 0 3 years 62% Senior leadership Further opportunities for the Board to meet senior 4 6 years 13% leadership across the Group were included in the programme of business for the Board and will continue to be included going forward 7 9 years 25% Delegation of authority The Board reviewed the delegations of its authority, confirming that these continued to be appropriate for the business carried out by the Group Board gender composition Review of terms of reference A review of the terms of reference was carried out in order to ensure that these remained in line with best Male 81% practice and that the committees continued to have appropriate authority to fulfil their responsibilities Female 19% without creating duplication of activities Committee membership Philip Remnant and Alice Schroeder were appointed to the Audit Committee following the regular review of membership for the principal committees Governance Corporate governance report Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 71 Group governance policies and processes in an online manual, results, the role of the Board and its key The Board is responsible for establishing a including the Groups risk framework, committees and the ambit of the internal system of internal control and for reviewing Code of Business Conduct and detailed audit and risk management functions.
To achieve this, the Board policies on key operational and financial addition, they receive detailed briefings on has established frameworks for internal risks.
Business units are also required to the Groups principal businesses, its product governance, risk and corporate follow any additional processes necessary range, the markets in which it operates and responsibility.
The system is designed to to comply with local statutory and the overall competitive environment.
These manage rather than eliminate the risk of regulatory requirements.
sessions are facilitated through meetings failure to achieve business objectives and with executive management and other can only provide reasonable and not Group risk framework: Describes the senior members of the management team.
absolute assurance against material Groups approach to risk management and Other areas addressed include the directors misstatement or loss.
the key risk arrangements and standards obligations under the different listing The governance framework principally for risk management and internal control regimes, legal issues affecting directors of relates to the operational management of which support compliance with the financial services companies, the Groups the Groups businesses and includes Groups internal, statutory and regulatory governance arrangements and its investor pre-determined authority limits, delegated requirements.
The strategic report relations programme as well as its by the Board, in respect of matters which provides further detail on Prudentials risk remuneration policies.
are necessary for the effective day-to-day appetite and exposures on pages 46 to 53 Throughout their period in office, running and management of the business.
and corporate responsibility activities directors are regularly updated on the The system is regularly reviewed and on pages 54 to 61.
Further details on the Groups businesses and the regulatory and complies with the UK Code and Corporate procedures for the management of risk and industry-specific environments in which it Governance Code issued by the Hong the systems of internal control operated by operates, as well as on their legal and other Kong Stock Exchange the HK Code, the Group are given in the section on risk duties and obligations as directors, where as well as the relevant provisions of the governance on page 81. appropriate.
The scope of these updates Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In complying with is reviewed in line with the requirements the UK Code, the Group follows the 2005 Corporate responsibility framework: of the business and can be in the form Turnbull Guidance relating to the sections Provides an overview of the Group-wide of written reports to the Board or of the UK Code dealing with risk philosophy and approach to corporate presentations by senior executives or management and internal control.
responsibility, supports the Groups external advisers where appropriate.
In The Chief Executive and Chief Financial commercial focus and the increasing order to enhance their knowledge and Officer of each business unit, as well as the challenges faced including changes in effectiveness throughout their term in senior management in Group Head Office, stakeholder expectations.
A key element office, non-executive directors serving on annually certify compliance with the is the Group Code of Business Conduct key committees are updated regularly on Groups governance, internal control and which sets out the ethical standards the matters specific to the relevant committee risk management requirements.
The risk Board requires of itself, employees, and receive presentations from senior management function reviewed any agents and others working on behalf of the executives on topics of interest to them.
matters identified by the certification Group, in their dealings with employees, Ongoing professional development was process, and also assessed the risk and customers, shareholders, suppliers and undertaken by all directors during 2013. control issues that arose and were reported competitors in the wider community and This included a number of sector-specific during the year.
This included routine and in respect of the environment.
and business issues, as well as legal, exception-based risk reporting, matters accounting and regulatory changes and identified and reported by other Group Internal control developments.
A number of business unit Head Office oversight functions, and the The Board reviewed the effectiveness of chief executive officers, together with findings from the work of the internal audit the system of internal control in February relevant senior executives, gave function, which executes risk-based audit 2014, covering all material controls, presentations to the Board during the plans throughout the Group.
The results including financial, operational and course of the year on the challenges and were reviewed by the Audit Committee compliance controls, risk management opportunities currently faced by their as described on page 75. systems and the adequacy of the business unit.
In addition, senior managers In line with the Turnbull Guidance, resources, qualifications and experience of within certain head office functions the certification provided above does not staff of the Groups accounting and presented to the Board key issues currently apply to certain material joint ventures financial reporting function.
The Board facing their function.
Members of the Audit where the Group does not exercise full confirms that there is an ongoing process Committee have the option to attend management control.
In these cases, for identifying, evaluating and managing meetings of the business unit audit the Group satisfies itself that suitable the significant risks faced by the Group, committees to aid their understanding of governance and risk management which has been in place throughout the topical matters of interest to them and arrangements are in place to protect period and up to the date of this report, and how they are handled by the Group.
However, the confirms that the system remains effective.
Non-executive directors also received relevant Group company which is party updates and briefings relevant to their to the joint venture must, in respect Induction and development duties as directors of a company listed of any services it provides in support The Group Company Secretary supports on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
of the joint venture, comply with the the Chairman in providing tailored induction requirements of the Groups internal programmes for new directors and ongoing Terms of appointment for governance framework.
On non-executive directors appointment, all directors embark upon Non-executive directors are appointed on Governance framework a wide-ranging induction programme the understanding that they serve an initial Group governance framework: covering, amongst other things, the term of three years.
Subject to review by Documents the Groups internal control principal bases of accounting for the Groups the Nomination Committee, it would be 72 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate governance report continued expected that they would serve a directors who are on the boards of nor the chairmanship, of a FTSE 100 second term of three years.
In both companies in which the Group has a company.
Some of our executive directors instances, non-executive directors remain shareholding.
The Board also believes hold directorships or trustee positions subject to annual election at the Annual that such shareholdings should not of unquoted companies or institutions.
After six years of service, preclude the Company from having the Details of any fees retained are included non-executive directors may be appointed most appropriate and highest calibre on page 118. for a further year, up to a maximum of non-executive directors.
three years, subject to rigorous annual Directors indemnities review by the Nomination Committee and Conflicts of interest and protections annual election at the Annual General Directors have a statutory duty to avoid Suitable insurance cover is in place in Meeting.
Good governance does not conflicts of interest with the Company.
respect of legal action against directors and support the practice of serving longer The Companys Articles of Association senior managers of companies within the than nine years on the Board as a allow its directors to authorise conflicts of Prudential Group.
Protection for directors, non-executive director.
interest and the Board has adopted a policy and certain senior managers, of companies The terms and conditions of all and effective procedures to manage and, within the Group, against personal financial directors appointments are available for where appropriate, approve conflicts or exposure which may be incurred in their inspection at the Companys registered potential conflicts of interest.
Under these capacity as such, is also provided.
These office during normal business hours and procedures, directors are required to include qualifying third-party indemnity at the Annual General Meeting.
declare all directorships or other provisions as defined by the Companies appointments to companies which are Act 2006 for the benefit of directors of Re-election not part of the Group, along with other Prudential plc and other such persons Jackie Hunt, Anthony Nightingale and appointments which could result including, where applicable, in their Alice Schroeder will stand for election for in conflicts or could give rise to a capacity as directors of other companies the first time at the 2014 Annual General potential conflict.
In keeping with the provisions of The Nomination Committee, or the in force during 2013 and remain in force.
the UK Code, all other directors will stand Board where appropriate, evaluates and In addition, the Companys Articles for re-election.
approves each such situation individually, of Association permit the directors and The Board believes that the nonwhere applicable, and the Nomination officers of the Company to be indemnified executive directors bring a wide range Committee annually reviews such in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of business, financial and international declarations prior to the publication of the of their office.
experience to the Board and its committees.
Meetings Independence Directors interests The Board met on 10 occasions during The independence of the non-executive Individual directors interests are the year, which included one meeting directors is determined with reference set out on page 116 of the directors held at the Groups overseas operations to the UK and HK Codes.
These meetings enable the is required to affirm annually the directors to develop a fuller understanding independence of all non-executive External appointments of the Groups operations and to meet with directors under the Hong Kong Listing Directors may hold directorships or other the senior management.
Rules and also the independence of its significant interests in companies outside One overseas strategy event was held Audit Committee members under the the Group which may have business in the US and the Board also met on one Sarbanes-Oxley legislation.
The Board has relationships with the Group.
additional occasion to address business appropriate processes in place to manage Non-executive directors may serve on a outside of the usual scheduled meetings.
any potential conflicts of interest.
number of other boards, review or advisory Where a director was unable to attend Throughout the year, the non-executive groups and charitable trusts, provided that Board meetings, their views were directors were considered by the Board they are able to demonstrate satisfactory canvassed by the Chairman prior to to be independent in character and time commitment to their role at Prudential the meeting.
judgement and met the criteria for and that they discuss any new appointment Table 1 overleaf details the number of independence as set out in the UK and with the Chairman prior to accepting.
This Board and Committee meetings attended HK Codes.
The Company has received ensures that they do not compromise their by each director during the year.
confirmation of independence from independence and that any potential During the year, the Chairman met with each of the independent non-executive conflicts of interest and any possible issues the non-executive directors without the directors as required by the Hong Kong arising out of the time commitments executive directors being present on Listing Rules.
required by the new role can be identified seven occasions.
Alistair Johnston was a partner in the and addressed appropriately.
The major The Board, or the members in a general Groups auditor, KPMG, from 1986 to commitments of our non-executive meeting, may appoint directors up to a 2010.
However, he did not audit the directors are detailed in their biographies maximum total number of 20 as set out in Prudential Group and he no longer has any on pages 66 to 68. the Companys Articles of Association.
financial or other interest in KPMG.
The Executive directors may accept external The removal and resignation of the Board does not consider that this former directorships and retain any fees earned directors is governed by the relevant relationship with KPMG affects Alistairs from those directorships subject to prior provisions of the Companies Act 2006, status as an independent director discussion with the Group Chief Executive the UK and HK Codes and the Companys of Prudential.
and always provided that they do not lead Articles of Association.
Prudential is one of the UKs largest to any conflicts of interest.
In the ordinary course of business, institutional investors and the Board does In line with the UK Code, executive Board and committee papers are provided not believe that this compromises the directors would not be expected to hold approximately one week in advance of independence of those non-executive more than one non-executive directorship, each meeting.
