Governance Nomination committee report Nomination committee chairmans Regarding non-executive directors, Kate Avery annual statement and Caroline Burton both retired from the board at the AGM in May.
The nomination committee has long The nomination committee had a busy year with a particular anticipated the need to recruit a suitably qualified accountant focus on succession.
to provide support for the current chairman of the audit committee and to potentially succeed him in future.
Accordingly, the executive search firm Blackwood Group, Committee members were appointed following a tender process involving five firms.
Following an extensive search and interview process, Our current members are Mark Nicholls chairman, we were delighted to be able to recommend the appointment Oliver Corbett, James Dean, David Harrel, Kathryn of James Dean to the board on 1 November 2013.
James Matthews and Andy Pomfret.
Kate Avery and Caroline is a former Ernst and Young partner with a wealth of Burton served on the committee until their retirement from financial services experience which will be of great benefit the board at the AGM on 14 May 2014.
We met on four to the business in the years ahead.
Details of attendance by Regarding diversity, we aspire to achieve a members are set out on page 50. minimum of 25% female representation on the board by 2015.
Female candidates with the knowledge and experience to be a director of a financial services business are in great Role and responsibilities of the committee demand but we intend to progress towards achieving this target during this year.
The remit of the committee is to consider and make Reference is made in the corporate governance report recommendations to the board for the appointment of to the board effectiveness review and to the appraisal process directors: the board as a whole then decides upon any such for individual directors.
The committee also considers issues such as appraisals, training and director development.
The terms Mark Nicholls of reference of the committee are reviewed annually and Chairman of the nomination committee approved by the board.
An external search consultancy is generally used 19 February 2014 when recruiting new non-executive directors and may be used when recruiting executive directors.
When considering possible candidates, the committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
The committee is mindful of the benefits of a diverse board with a broad range of skills and experience.
What we have done in 2013 2013 was a year of considerable change.
Early in the year an opportunity arose to strengthen the management team with the appointment of Philip Howell, who had considerable experience in the investment management industry.
Following a number of interviews, meetings with senior management, discussions with our regulators and approval by the board, he joined us in March 2013 as deputy chief executive.
Andy Pomfret had earlier informed the board of his wish to retire once a successor had been identified.
As anticipated Philip performed well from the outset and, following discussions at the nomination committee, we informed the regulators of the intention to appoint him as chief executive.
Philip was appointed to the board on 1 December 2013 and will become chief executive on 1 March 2014.
This process has both given Philip time to get to know the business and has ensured a smooth hand-over of responsibility from Andy Pomfret.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 69
