Governance Audit committee report Audit committee chairmans The significant judgment issues considered in annual statement 2013 included: As anticipated in last years report, over the past year we Client relationship intangibles have focused on a number of key issues including data The group assesses whether payments made to newly security, the accounting treatment of acquisitions, group recruited investment managers under contractual agreements capital planning and new guidance on internal audit in represent payments for the acquisition of client relationship the financial services sector.
We also asked management intangibles or remuneration for ongoing services provided to undertake an organisational review of the finance to the group.
Payments made for the acquisition of client department.
relationship intangibles are capitalised whereas those that are I was delighted to welcome James Dean as a judged to be in relation to the provision of ongoing services committee member in November 2013.
His appointment are expensed in the period in which they are incurred see is important for succession planning purposes and his note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements.
extensive audit and accounting experience will prove During the year the audit committee reviewed invaluable to us in the years ahead.
evidence to ensure that the period during which awards accruing to new investment managers are capitalised is suitable.
Typically, this will be for 12 months after the Committee members cessation of any non-compete period with any payments made after this point charged to profit or loss.
The audit Our current members are the independent non-executive committee agree that this approach continues to be directors Oliver Corbett chairman, James Dean, appropriate.
David Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
Kate Avery and Caroline Burton were members of the committee until The carrying value of assets their retirement from the board on 14 May 2013.
We reviewed the methodology for valuing assets where The board is satisfied that at least one member of a significant amount of judgment is required, including the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
intangible assets particularly goodwill and client Both James Dean and I are chartered accountants whilst relationships and the Jersey loan notes.
the other committee members have extensive experience The Jersey loan notes were received on the sale of financial matters and of the financial services industry.
of the groups Jersey trust operation in 2008 and have a We met on six occasions in 2013 2012: seven.
They are unsecured, have Details of attendance by members are set out on page 50. no fixed maturity and are repayable on the occurrence of The chief executive, finance director, heads of internal certain events, principally the refinancing of the Jersey trust audit and compliance and the audit partner attend meetings operations by its existing owner.
The estimated present by invitation.
value of future cash flows arising from the loan notes was discussed and a carrying value of 2.8 million agreed.
Full details are shown in notes 2.2 and 15 to the consolidated Role and responsibilities of the committee financial statements.
These are set out in the terms of reference of the committee, The valuation of defined benefit pension obligations which are reviewed annually and approved by the board.
We reviewed the key assumptions made, particularly salary increases, inflation and the discount rate when valuing the companys pension scheme liabilities, which are disclosed What we have done in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
We reviewed the professional advice taken and considered Financial reporting feedback provided by the auditors on the assumptions used by us and by other companies.
We satisfied ourselves that During the year, we considered the significant financial the assumptions used were reasonable.
and regulatory reporting issues and judgments made in connection with the financial statements and the Provisions and contingent liabilities appropriateness of accounting policies.
We reviewed the We discussed and reviewed provisions totalling narrative statements in the report and accounts and 9.9 million summarised in note 25 to the consolidated interim statement to ensure that they were reasonable and financial statements.
These primarily include provisions consistent with the reported results.
made in respect of future property dilapidation liabilities and future payments to be made following the acquisition of businesses or amounts payable to new investment managers as outlined above.
66 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Governance Audit committee report What we have done Financial reporting We discussed the legal action and related legal quality assurance team is not considered practical given the advice relating to the management of a Jersey trust which relatively small size of the internal audit team.
has been filed against a former subsidiary, Rathbone Trust Company Jersey Limited, and a former employee and External audit director of that company, amongst others and the related legal proceedings against excess civil liability insurers, We reviewed the external audit process, including the details of which are disclosed in note 32 to the consolidated performance of the external auditors, by gathering feedback financial statements.
The audit committee considers these from committee members and from management.
We also disclosures to be appropriate.
reviewed the annual Financial Reporting Council Audit Quality Inspection report prepared on our external auditor Internal controls and risk management systems and discussed this report with the audit partner.
We are responsible for reviewing external audit Our review of the effectiveness of the groups internal arrangements and for any recommendation to the board financial controls is achieved primarily by the assessment regarding change of audit firm.
This includes consideration of of the work of the group internal audit department, reports the external auditors period in office, their compensation and produced by the compliance function, the findings of the the scope, quality and cost-effectiveness of their work.
The annual external audit and periodic reviews of identified risks last audit services contract tender process was undertaken in and mitigating controls undertaken by senior management.
June 2009, which led to the appointment of KPMG.
We plan A separate group risk committee report considers risk to undertake an audit services contract tender process again management issues see page 53. before the tenth anniversary of their appointment.
During the year we considered an independent data We reviewed reports from the external auditor on security report on access to our core investment management their audit plans including their proposed materiality level systems and approved new procedures for the transfer of for the performance of the annual audit, the status of their distributable reserves from subsidiaries to the company to audit work and issues arising from it.
Particular focus was ensure that reserves in this company are always sufficient to given to their testing of internal controls, their work on the cover dividend payments.
We received updates from internal key judgment areas and possible audit adjustments.
We can audit on attempted frauds affecting our business and our confirm that there are no such material items remaining industry.
We also had regular updates from the head of unadjusted in the financial statements.
We also reviewed a compliance on the work of the compliance team and on any benchmarking of our IT controls against a peer group of areas of particular focus or concern.
We also commissioned other investment managers.
a review of the finance department by the auditor and the We reviewed the independence and the nature of recommendations arising from this work will be taken non-audit services supplied by the external auditor and nonforward in 2014. audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
Our prior approval is required where the fee for an individual non-audit service Internal audit is expected to exceed 25,000.
Fees for non-audit services paid to the auditor should not, in aggregate, exceed 50% of We approved the 2013 internal audit plan in late 2012. the audit fee in any year without our prior written approval.
The frequency of internal audit reviews is determined by a Non-audit fees payable to the auditor in 2013 were 71,000. risk-based approach.
This ensures that whilst the focus is This represents 14.2% of the fees for assurance services of on higher-risk areas, all parts of the business are covered 499,000, which includes the assurance reports required by over a three year cycle.
Regular updates are given to us on our regulators and the review of the interim statement 2012: the findings of completed internal audit reviews, the status 65,000, 13.1% of 497,000.
We recognise that, given of scheduled work and on the follow up of reviews by their knowledge of the business, there are often advantages management to ensure that the agreed recommendations are in using the external auditor to provide certain non-audit acted upon promptly.
We saw all reviews containing high services and we are satisfied that their independence has not risk-related recommendations and a sample of other reviews.
been impaired by providing these services.
Some spare capacity is allowed in the plan so that ad We agreed the external auditors fees which are hoc reviews at the request of management or the committee shown in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements and can be undertaken.
For example, an additional review was reviewed the audit engagement letter.
We also had discussions undertaken in 2013 on payroll and the processing of nonwith the external auditor with no management present routine payments.
to provide an opportunity for any concerns to be raised We also reviewed internal audit resources, approved and discussed.
the internal audit charter and considered the implications of new Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors guidance on effective internal audit in the financial services sector.
Internal audit has worked towards full adherence to the guidance with one main exception.
The establishment of a dedicated Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 67 Governance Audit committee report What we have done Confidential reporting policy We annually review the groups Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 confidential reporting policy, approve any changes to the document and receive details of any reports made.
Other We also discussed compliance matters including an update on any client complaints and attempted frauds.
Sadly, client identity theft is an increasingly common problem affecting the financial services industry.
Regular meetings are held on a one-to-one basis with the head of internal audit, head of compliance or the audit partner before audit committee meetings to ensure that any concerns can be raised in confidence.
I also have regular one-to-one meetings between audit committee meetings.
We can access independent professional advice if we consider it necessary.
Oliver Corbett Chairman of the audit committee 19 February 2014 68 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013
