Governance Corporate governance report The board and committee structure Introduction from the chairman You will find in this annual report commentaries from me and other committee chairmen on important aspects of our governance.
The boards primary focus is on ensuring that the business prospers for the benefit of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Governance provides a framework for ensuring this, but is not an end in itself.
I believe that the most important element of a sound corporate governance framework is a healthy board culture.
I believe we have this at Rathbones where, through open and constructive dialogue, our non-executive directors hold our executive directors accountable for their stewardship.
Although there are further improvements we can make I believe that this year the smaller board has contributed to more focused and rigorous discussions in a positive atmosphere.
Regarding board changes, as foreshadowed in my chairmans statement last year, we appointed a new non-executive director, James Dean, on 1 November 2013 following the retirement of Kate Avery and Caroline Burton at the AGM.
On 1 December 2013 we appointed Philip Howell to the board with the intention that he becomes chief executive on 1 March 2014 in succession to Andy Pomfret.
We take the recommendations of the UK Corporate The board Governance Code seriously and we have been compliant with it throughout the year.
The biographies of the directors and their details are set out Finally, we are mindful of the recommendations of on pages 44 to 46.
The board currently consists of a nonLord Davies review in February 2011 and his follow up executive chairman, four executive directors and four other report in April 2013.
Our aspiration is to comply with his non-executive directors.
The board considers that all of the recommendations and to have a 25% female representation non-executive directors are independent.
The roles of the on the board by the end of 2015.
That said, we must bear in chairman, Mark Nicholls, and the chief executive, Andy mind the importance of only appointing the highest quality Pomfret, are separated and are clearly defined in writing and candidates to our board, who have the right skills and who agreed by the board.
thereby ensure the continuing confidence of our regulators.
Kate Avery and Caroline Burton retired from the board on 14 May 2013.
James Dean and Philip Howell Mark Nicholls were appointed to the board on 1 November 2013 and Chairman 1 December 2013 respectively.
Andy Pomfret is to retire from the board on 28 February 2014 with Philip Howell succeeding him as chief executive from 1 March 2014.
Governance of the company In relation to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Attendance at board meetings Code, this report together with the directors report states the position at 19 February 2014.
The company was in The meeting attendance record of directors who served compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the during the year is set out in table 1 overleaf.
Code issued in June 2010 and in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC throughout the year.
The UK Listing Authority Listing Rules still refer to the June Role of the board 2010 version of the Code.
We meet as a full board at least seven times a year with one meeting devoted entirely to strategic issues.
Most board meetings are preceded by a board dinner which allows for broader discussions and an opportunity for the board to meet other members of the management team.
In months where no formal board meeting is scheduled, an informal meeting Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 49 Governance Corporate governance report Role of the board of the non-executive directors and the chairman and Role of the chief executive chief executive is generally held.
The non-executive directors also have informal meetings without the chairman or chief The chief executive is the most senior executive director on executive present.
the board, with responsibility for proposing strategy to the board, and for delivering the strategy as agreed.
Role of the chairman Role of the non-executive directors The chairmans main responsibilities include: The non-executive directors: ensuring that the composition of the board is appropriate with the right balance of skills, bring independent judgment to the board table gained experience and background at a senior level in other organisations ensuring that an appropriate governance framework constructively challenge strategy and management is in place performance.
setting the board agenda, which is primarily focused on The senior independent director is David Harrel, who is strategy, value creation and accountability available to shareholders if they have concerns that they would rather not address to the chairman or executive ensuring that the board is kept properly informed directors or which remain unresolved after an approach chairing board meetings through the normal channels.
ensuring that the formal schedule of matters reserved for the boards attention is adhered to.
This covers key Role of the company secretary areas of the groups business including: determination of the groups aims and the strategy The company secretary: to be adopted in achieving those aims maintenance of a sound system of internal control manages board and committee meetings, providing and risk management suitable papers and taking minutes major organisational change ensures that the board and particularly the reviews of budgets and financial statements non-executive directors are receiving appropriate and significant transactions and contracts balanced information remuneration principles governance facilitates induction and assists with professional significant regulatory matters development as required major capital expenditure.
advises the board on corporate governance matters and on the rules and regulations that affect a UK listed company.
The appointment or removal of the company secretary is a matter for the board.
Attendance at board meetings Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Risk 1 2 Plc Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee C R R Avery 1 2 2 3 3 4 C M Burton 2 2 3 3 3 4 P D G Chavasse 6 7 12 12 O R P Corbett 6 7 6 6 7 8 4 4 4 4 J W Dean 1 2 1 1 2 3 1 1 1 1 D T D Harrel 7 7 6 6 8 8 4 4 1 1 P L Howell 1 1 1 1 K A Matthews 7 7 6 6 8 8 4 4 4 4 M P Nicholls 7 7 8 8 4 4 A D Pomfret 7 7 11 12 R P Stockton 7 7 12 12 1 Scheduled bi-monthly meeting 2 Scheduled monthly meeting 50 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Governance Corporate governance report Board performance These will be addressed in 2014 and reported on in the 2014 report.
Board review The board undertakes an annual review of its operation Director appraisal and performance towards the end of each year.
In 2012 this was carried out based on an internal questionnaire, Individual appraisal of each directors performance is developed and executed with assistance from Lintstock undertaken by the chief executive in respect of the executive Limited, a London-based corporate advisory firm.
A number directors executive roles and the chairman for all directors of the key points raised and the action taken in 2013 are in respect of their contribution to the board.
meeting with each director on a one-to-one basis.
The nonexecutive directors, led by the senior independent director, Key issues Action taken in 2013 carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
More financial expertise James Dean, a former Ernst & on the board.
Young partner with extensive financial services experience, Training was appointed to the board on 1 November 2013.
Rathbones is committed to the training and development Greater summarisation and Greater use of exception of all staff to ensure professional standards are maintained highlighting of information.
reporting has been encouraged and enhanced.
All directors are required to dedicate a using red, amber and green certain number of hours to their own development.
Training ranking of issues where and development include activities to keep up-to-date appropriate.
Meeting with Rathbones specific issues and industry, market and contributors are asked to only regulatory changes.
raise key issues where guidance New directors are involved in a thorough induction or a decision is required.
process designed to enable them to become quickly familiar Greater use could be made of There has been more with the business.
This includes meeting staff in a number of the non-executive directors consultation with the nonkey business areas, attendance at important internal meetings skills and experience.
executive directors this year and demonstrations of systems and key business processes.
outside meetings, and a greater recognition that their role is to contribute constructively and not just challenge.
Board committees A need to spend less time on Regulatory and governance day-to-day issues and more time demands cannot be avoided but The principal board committees are the executive, audit, on the long term shape of the greater use of board dinners remuneration, nomination and group risk committees.
and lunches and of the annual details of their work are set out in the separate reports for strategy day have helped move each committee which follow this report.
the board focus towards strategic matters.
Mark Nicholls Focus on risk acceptance rather A risk appetite statement was Chairman than risk avoidance.
approved by the board during the year and will be used to 19 February 2014 assess future business change.
Subjects raised in the 2013 review included: a need to review the board agenda and the time allocated to agenda items suggested improvements to board papers oversight of the business by the non-executive directors requests for more market and competitor analysis the possible skill set of any new non-executive directors potential threats and opportunities to the business training needs for all directors.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 51
