Governance Group risk committee report Risk committee chairmans annual statement What we have done Risk management process enhancements continued to be Full details of our risk management processes are included in made in 2013.
The governance framework was revised with the strategic report on pages 14 to 16. the committee now consisting of the independent nonBusiness unit representatives are members of a risk executive directors.
The chairman, group finance director, management committee who look at risks from a bottom head of internal audit, senior risk officer and senior risk up basis.
The group executive committee takes a top analyst will normally attend all meetings but whether the down view of risks.
These lists are discussed by the group chief executive should be present will be a decision between risk committee, which takes a more holistic view of risk.
Its the chairman of the committee and the chief executive, responsibilities include: recognising that there may be situations where it would not producing a consolidated top 10 list of risks be appropriate for the chief executive to be in attendance.
As highlighted in the strategic report on page 14, considering a watch list of emerging risks and issues we approved a risk appetite document and discussed work advising the board on the groups overall risk appetite done on the quantification of operational risk.
This involved and risk tolerance the modelling of a number of operational risk event-driven scenarios as part of our annual regulatory Internal Capital identifying trends and correlations Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
Reassuringly, these reviewing the risk assessment process and the calculations provided assurance that the 15% of three year metrics used average net operational income figure used to calculate an operational risk charge was within a comfortable range.
providing guidance to other committees and to 2014 is likely to see further changes and refinements the board to our risk management processes, in particular, further supporting the boards assessment of any proposed strengthening of our governance structure with a more strategic business change dedicated focus on the second line of defence and enhancements to our risk appetite with particular regard to assessing reports on any material breaches of future strategic developments.
risk tolerances and the adequacy of proposed management action.
Additionally, the committee reviewed the risk-related aspects Committee members of key regulatory documents including those relating to the ICAAP and the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Our current members are the independent non-executive ILAA process.
directors Kathryn Matthews chairman, Oliver Corbett, James Dean and David Harrel.
We met on four occasions in Kathryn Matthews 2013 2012: four.
Details of attendance by members are set Chairman of the group risk committee out on page 50.
19 February 2014 Role and responsibilities of the committee These are set out in the terms of reference of the committee, which are reviewed annually and approved by the board.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 53
