Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 67 Audit and Risk Committee report I am pleased to present the report on the activities of the Audit Role and responsibilities and Risk Committee for the year to 31 December 2013.
Set out The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its below is a summary of the work carried out by the Committee.
oversight responsibilities in respect of the Company and the Group.
The Committees key responsibilities are: Audit and Risk Committee to review the reporting of financial and other information to Throughout 2013, the members of the Audit and Risk Committee the shareholders of the Company and monitor the integrity of were Paul Bowtell Chairman, Martina King, Gillian Sheldon the financial statements and Tim Brooke.
Paul, Martina and Gillian are all Independent to review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit Non-Executive Directors and Tim Brooke is also independent to process, assess the independence of the Auditor and ensure Capita and brings his expertise in the Financial Services sector appropriate policies and procedures are in place to protect such to support the Committee.
Tim Brooke is an independent independence non-executive chair of Capitas Financial Services Risk Committee and is not an independent Non-Executive Director of Capita plc.
to review and assess the adequacy of the systems of internal Paul Bowtell is a Chartered Accountant and has recent and control and risk management which includes monitoring the Companys Internal Audit function and monitor the risk profile relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and of the business the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees.
to report to the Board on how it has discharged its The Board has reviewed the performance of the Committee responsibilities.
and is satisfied that the combined knowledge and experience of its members is such that the Committee discharges its The Audit and Risk Committee terms of reference set out in full responsibilities in an effective, informed and challenging manner.
the role, responsibilities and authority of the Committee and can be found on the Companys website at www.
Audit and Risk Committee meetings are by invitation and These were reviewed and updated during the year.
generally attended by: the Non-Executive Chairman: Group Finance Director: Group Risk & Compliance Director: the Committee activities during 2013 Group Internal Audit Director and by representatives of the The Committee met six times during the year.
planned around the financial calendar of the Company and the The Chairman of the Committee is directly available to and holds meeting held in May is specifically to focus on the risk, internal regular meetings with the Group Finance Director, Group Risk & control and compliance agendas.
Reports are received at all Compliance Director, Deputy Company Secretary who acts as meetings from the Group Risk & Compliance and Group Internal Secretary to the Committee, the Group Internal Audit Director Audit departments and new contract terms are also reviewed and external Auditor.
