Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 63 Board composition Compliance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Capita plc and its subsidiaries the Group continue to be January 2013 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland committed to maintaining high standards of corporate Gordon Hurst Gillian Sheldon governance.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or after Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell 1 October 2012.
A copy of the Code is available from the Vic Gysin Martina King Financial Reporting Councils website www.
In addition, Andy Parker the Company complied with the provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, as required by the Listing Rules 9.8.
January 2014 to Throughout the accounting period to which this report relates, 28 February 2014 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland the Company complied with all relevant provisions set out in Andy Parker Gillian Sheldon Sections A to E of the Codes except as detailed below: Gordon Hurst Paul Bowtell Code provision Area of non-compliance Position at 31 December 2013 Maggi Bell Martina King B.
1.2 Composition During the period the The balance was five of the Board Board had an imbalance Executive Directors Vic Gysin of Executive Directors and three Independent Dawn Marriott-Sims to Independent NonNon-Executive Executive Directors.
Directors and a Non- 1 March 2014 onwards Andy Parker Martin Bolland Executive Chairman.
Gordon Hurst Gillian Sheldon As noted above, the balance of independent Non-Executives to Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell Executives is not equal.
However, in accordance with the Codes B.
1 Supporting Principles, the Board needs to be appropriate Vic Gysin Martina King in size and experience to manage the complexities it faces.
Dawn Marriott-Sims We believe that the number of our Board Directors and their range of skills are appropriate for the scale and scope of the Independent in accordance with the Code.
business and to ensure effective Board processes.
The Board Retiring at AGM in May 2014 has the broad range of experience that is essential to ensure Board leadership effective execution of strategy and management of risk, whilst also ensuring that the balance of skills is appropriate for the Consistent with previous years, the Board continues to support the need to segregate the responsibility for operating the Board committees.
Our Executives recognise all of their responsibilities and do not solely represent the activities they have within the and managing the underlying business.
Martin Bollands role as Non-Executive Chairman and the role of Andy Parker as Chief Group which adds to open and constructive debate, as well as demonstrating the overall strength of the Board.
Executive Paul Pindar until 28 February 2014 are separate.
This area of non-compliance is expected to remain Martin Bolland as Chairman and Gillian Sheldon as Senior Independent Director also held meetings solely comprising the throughout 2014.
Both Martin and Gillian are Board changes in the year also available to meet with shareholders when requested.
There were no new appointments to the Board during 2013.
Role of the Board There were a number of changes to roles and responsibilities as noted on page 62.
From 1 January 2014, Dawn Marriott-Sims The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote was appointed to the Board.
Further information on the changes to the Board is set out in the Nomination Committee report on the success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
In doing so, the Directors must have regard amongst page 66. other matters to: the likely consequences of any decision in the long term the interests of the Companys employees the need to foster business relationships with suppliers, customers and others the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct the need to act fairly towards all shareholders of the Company.
64 | Capita plc Corporate governance statement In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure Following Andy Parkers appointment as Deputy Chief Executive that the Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
in June 2013, specific training was undertaken in respect of governance and stakeholder relationships.
The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to best support the delivery of long term value, providing On the announcement of Dawn Marriott-Sims to the Board, the overall strategic direction within an appropriate framework Deputy Company Secretary and the Group Risk & Compliance of rewards, incentives and controls.
The Board is collectively Director held specific training sessions which included her responsible for the success of the Company: the Executive responsibilities as a Director of a Listed Company, and risk and Directors are directly responsible for running the business governance areas.
A full induction was not required given that operations and the Non-Executive Directors are responsible Dawn had worked within Capita for a number of years.
for bringing independent judgement and scrutiny to decisions Ongoing training and briefings are also given to all Directors, taken by the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors must satisfy including external courses as required.
themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust.
Company Secretary Following presentations by executive and divisional management All Board members have access to independent advice on and a disciplined process of review and challenge by the Board, any matters relating to their responsibilities as Directors and clear decisions on policy or strategy are adopted, and the as members of the various committees of the Board at the executive management are fully empowered to implement Groups expense.
The Company Secretary, Gordon Hurst, who is also the Group Board independence Finance Director, is available to all Directors and he is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are complied with.
As with Non-Executive Directors are required to be independent in the Board composition and ongoing requirements, this is character and judgement.
All relationships that may materially regularly reviewed.
interfere with this judgement are disclosed as required under the conflicts of interest policy.
The Board has determined that all The duties of the Company Secretary continue to grow with the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year were the increase in size and diversity of the Groups activities and independent and before and upon appointment as Chairman, legislative changes.
To assist in this area, the Deputy Company Martin Bolland met the criteria of independence as outlined in Secretary coordinates and manages the provision of share the Codes.
registration, company secretarial services and share plans to the Group on behalf of Gordon Hurst.
The Deputy Company The Board does not believe that a Non-Executives tenure Secretary has direct access and responsibility to the Chairs of materially interferes with their ability to act in the best the standing committees and open access to all the Directors.
The Board also believes that each of the The Deputy Company Secretary has been appointed as Non-Executives has retained independence of character and Secretary to the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination judgement and has not formed associations with management Committees to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest.
or others that may compromise their ability to exercise The Deputy Company Secretary meets regularly with the independent judgement or act in the best interests of the Group.
Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and The Board is satisfied that no conflict of interest exists for any the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and briefs them on Director.
This matter is a standing agenda item.
areas of governance and committee requirements.
Board Directors inductions and training The Board continues to keep the Company Secretary role under review, but feels that the combination of the roles continues to Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive work well for the business as a whole.
an induction tailored to their individual requirements.
They are encouraged to meet and be briefed on the roles of key people across the Group and have open access to all business areas and employees to build up an appropriate level of knowledge of the business that extends beyond formal papers and presentations to the Board.
All Directors have received an appropriate induction for their roles within Capita.
These have included familiarisation with: terms of reference for all committees and matters reserved for the Board overviews of the business via Management Operations Business MOB review reports the Group approach to risk management.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 65 Committees terms of reference Board and Committee members, frequency of meetings and attendance The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and During 2013 the Board met nine times, excluding ad hoc meetings, Audit and Risk Committees were reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference are summarised in the table below and, solely to deal with procedural matters.
The Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee met three and along with the matters reserved for the Board, are displayed in full in the investor centre at www.
five times during the year, respectively.
The Audit and Risk Committee met six times during the year.
Attendance is recorded Terms of reference Brief description of responsibilities in the table below: Nomination Reviews composition of the Board.
Recommends Audit Committee appointment of new Directors.
Considers Nomination Remuneration and Risk succession plans for Chairman and Executive Board Committee Committee Committee positions.
meetings meetings meetings meetings The Group diversity statement is reviewed and Scheduled Meetings 9 3 56 recommended by this committee.
Martin Bolland 9 3 Audit and Risk Reviews accounting policies and the contents Committee of financial reports.
Monitors the internal Paul Pindar 8 control environment.
Considers the adequacy and scope of the external and internal audit Andy Parker 9 programme.
Oversees the relationship with our external Auditor.
Monitors risk profile and obtains Gordon Hurst 8 assurance that principal risks have been properly identified and appropriately managed.
Maggi Bell 9 Remuneration Sets the policy for Executive Directors and senior Vic Gysin 7 Committee executives remuneration.
Approves individual Gillian Sheldon 9 3 56 remuneration awards.
Agrees changes to senior executive incentive plans.
Approves the policy on Paul Bowtell 9 3 56 remuneration for FCA regulated firms and also reviews and approves the Remuneration Policy Martina King 9 3 56 Statement in respect of the FCA Remuneration Code.
Tim Brooke 4 Tim Brooke is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee only and is not a NonMatters reserved for the Board Executive Director of Capita plc.
Tim Brooke is an independent non-executive chair of Capitas Financial Services Risk Committee.
A formal schedule of matters reserved by the Board has been Dawn Marriott-Sims was not appointed to the Board until 1 January 2014. adopted and these include, but are not limited to: strategy and management including responsibility for the Due to the nature of the acquisition and bid strategy, overall leadership of the Company and setting the Companys consideration of meeting times has to include flexibility to hold values and standards and overview of the Groups operational meetings outside of this timetable and meetings of this nature management tend to be held by telephone.
structure and capital including changes relating to the Groups Any Directors absence from Board meetings or meetings of the capital structure and major changes to the Groups corporate Audit and Risk, Remuneration or Nomination Committees was structure including acquisitions and disposals and changes to previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief the Groups management and control structure Executive or the Chair of the relevant committee.
financial reporting including the approval of the half yearly report, interim management statements and preliminary announcement for the final results.
Also the approval of the dividend policy, the setting and approval of treasury policies and establishing and maintaining accounting policies.
Membership of the committees Membership of the Companys standing committees at the end of the year is shown below: Martin Bolland Gillian Sheldon Martina King Paul Bowtell Nomination C x x x x Audit and Risk x x C x Remuneration x C x x C Chair 66 | Capita plc Corporate governance statement Nomination Committee Committee activities during 2013 The Nomination Committee in 2013 comprised Martin Bolland During the year, the Committee considered the succession Committee Chairman, Gillian Sheldon, Martina King and Paul planning to the Board.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary In May 2013, the Committee recommended to the Board to the Committee and is available to assist the members of that Andy Parker be appointed to support Paul Pindar with his the Committee as required, ensuring that timely and accurate duties as Chief Executive.
When considering this appointment information is distributed accordingly.
It met three times during the Committee considered the size and structure of the the year.
Board and the balance and range of its Directors knowledge The Committee is also authorised under its terms of reference to and experience.
obtain the advice of independent search consultants.
The terms In November 2013, the Committee met to discuss the retirement of reference for the Nomination Committee can be found on from the Board of Paul Pindar and recommended to the Board the Groups website at www.
These were that Andy Parker be promoted to the post of Chief Executive.
reviewed and updated during the year.
A formal interview process took place with Andy and it was The Committee reports and makes recommendations unanimously decided to recommend Andy for the role of to the Board in relation to its activities and deliberations.
The Committees key responsibilities are: The Committee also considered the appointment of Dawn to identify and nominate appropriate candidates for Marriott-Sims to the Board as Joint Chief Operating Officer.
appointment to the Board, having due regard to the Paul Pindar and Andy Parker were both consulted on this provisions of the Code and, in particular, the balance of skills, appointment and their recommendations were taken into knowledge and experience on the Board and the diversity consideration.
Following a formal interview process, it was of its composition agreed to recommend the appointment of Dawn to the Board to this position.
to keep the structure and size of the Board and the leadership needs of the organisation under review and ensure In all instances neither an external search agency nor open that plans are in place for orderly succession and appointment advertising were used.
to the Board Martin Bolland continues to review opportunities for the Board to review the time commitment required from Non-Executive on an ongoing basis.
Directors, the performance of Directors and all declarations of During the year, the Nomination Committee also considered interest made by Board members succession planning for the Board more generally.
to consider the Group diversity position.
Given that all Directors apart from Paul Pindar and Martina Board diversity King will stand for re-election or election at the Annual General Meeting, the performance of all Directors, their interests and In 2013, 14% of our senior management team and 33% of our Board were women.
From 1 January 2014, 40% of our Board any potential conflicts of interest declared to the Company were reviewed.
Capita sees significant business benefit in having access to the diversity of thinking that comes from people with a The Committee considered many issues, such as length of wide range of backgrounds at all levels in the Company.
Only by service and potential conflicts of interest, and how these may encouraging this diversity and by fostering talent throughout the have an impact on the independence of the Non-Executives.
business can the Company expect to achieve further diversity The Committee also considered diversity on the Board.
Capita has a network of diversity The time committed by the Non-Executives was also considered champions across the Group and the Companys training and and this remained appropriate to ensure that each discharged mentoring initiatives actively support the fostering of talent at their duties and responsibilities effectively.
all levels in the business across the Companys diverse workforce.
The Board and senior management teams across Capita are fully committed to continuing to foster talent and support those people from all backgrounds who wish to progress.
However, the Company will also continue to appoint and promote people on merit and in line with the skills and attributes identified for each post, including those identified by the Nominations Committee for the Board.
Further information is shown on page 48 of the strategic report.
