Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 61 Corporate governance statement In May 2013 we announced that Andy Parker would additionally Chairmans report take on the role of Deputy Chief Executive to directly support I am pleased to present to you this report on the work of the Paul Pindar as we continued to grow.
In November we Capita Board during 2013.
This section of the report pages 61 announced that Paul Pindar would be retiring on 28 February to 66 and the section headed Other Statutory and Regulatory 2014 and Andy Parker would be promoted to Chief Executive Information pages 73 to 77 together form the Directors report.
We also announced the promotion of Dawn I continue to be impressed by the Boards commitment to the Marriott-Sims to Joint Chief Operating Officer effective from highest standard of corporate governance and, most importantly, 1 January 2014.
Martina King is also retiring from the Board after how this works within the structure of the whole organisation 10 years as a Non-Executive Director from the AGM 2014.
I wish without being overly cumbersome.
Andy and Dawn every success in their new roles.
I believe that we have a talented and strong team in place on the Group Board It is vital that a Board balances its time between strategy and across our divisional management team to support our and oversight, as this responsibility is given to them by the continued growth as a Group.
shareholders, but consideration of all its stakeholders is also important.
I believe that this balance is managed well within Approximate allocation of agenda time in 2013 Capita at Board, divisional and business unit level.
During the year the Boards discussions have been wide-ranging, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Paul Pindar for his including: strategy, acquisitions, finance, corporate reporting, enormous contribution to Capita over the past 27 years.
He has operational performance and risk and internal audit.
The time been instrumental in smoothly guiding the Company through allocated to these areas of the Board is shown in the diagram its exceptional growth and performance, delivering an unbroken below.
track record of year-on-year earnings growth.
He has inspired the best in his team with his indomitable leadership and unwavering sense of fun and good humour.
Our robust succession planning Corporate reporting 5% Strategy 15% has ensured that there is a strong team in place to continue delivering success.
Bids 15% On behalf of the Board we wish him every success for the future.
Risk 15% Results for 2013 Acquisitions 2013 was an excellent year for Capita, with underlying revenue and disposals 20% on an ongoing basis up by 15%, underlying operating profit up by Finance 10% 11% and underlying earnings per share up 14%.
During the year, Operations 20% we secured Capitas largest ever contract by annual value with Telefnica UK O2 valued at 1.2bn over 10 years.
The majority of our divisions traded well in 2013, with particularly good performance across our Customer Management & International, Strategy Workplace Services and Professional Services divisions.
Our A specific session to review the Groups strategy in detail Insurance & Benefits division continues to bear higher costs than is held each year.
Strategy items are also discussed at each anticipated of IT legacy systems.
The diverse nature of the business means that Additionally, as announced in November 2013, we completed we must continue to be adaptable to the opportunities and the disposal of some of our Insurance Distribution operations challenges that face us, our clients and our stakeholders.
Risk is and closed our SIP Self Invested Pensions administration considered side-by-side with strategy and is included in our business based in Salisbury.
This followed a detailed review which operational reporting.
concluded that the route to recovery for these businesses would take a long time and we therefore acted swiftly to resolve this.
Board members reporting In 2013, these operations generated 45m of Group revenue All Executive Directors prepare and present a report at each and made a combined operating loss of 14.4m.
These include the key issues including risk and non-trading cash cost, net of tax, from the sale and closure is opportunity, operational and financial performance and bid 38.5m.
The loss on disposal was 82.1m including 62.4m from and acquisition activity.
These reports are then complemented impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.
with verbal updates at the meeting.
This allows the Directors to focus on specific issues and also for the other Directors to debate Board activities in 2013 and challenge as required.
See management and governance The Group has undertaken a large number of acquisitions structure on page 35. and has had an excellent year of securing new and renewed major contracts.
The Board and committee meetings are structured, and agendas drawn up accordingly, to cover the wide range of matters that are brought to our attention and the meetings are aligned with the financial calendar of the Company.
This ensures that appropriate focus can be given to the items brought to our attention.
