Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 67 Audit and Risk Committee report I am pleased to present the report on the activities of the Audit Role and responsibilities and Risk Committee for the year to 31 December 2013.
Set out The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its below is a summary of the work carried out by the Committee.
oversight responsibilities in respect of the Company and the Group.
The Committees key responsibilities are: Audit and Risk Committee to review the reporting of financial and other information to Throughout 2013, the members of the Audit and Risk Committee the shareholders of the Company and monitor the integrity of were Paul Bowtell Chairman, Martina King, Gillian Sheldon the financial statements and Tim Brooke.
Paul, Martina and Gillian are all Independent to review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit Non-Executive Directors and Tim Brooke is also independent to process, assess the independence of the Auditor and ensure Capita and brings his expertise in the Financial Services sector appropriate policies and procedures are in place to protect such to support the Committee.
Tim Brooke is an independent independence non-executive chair of Capitas Financial Services Risk Committee and is not an independent Non-Executive Director of Capita plc.
to review and assess the adequacy of the systems of internal Paul Bowtell is a Chartered Accountant and has recent and control and risk management which includes monitoring the Companys Internal Audit function and monitor the risk profile relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and of the business the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees.
to report to the Board on how it has discharged its The Board has reviewed the performance of the Committee responsibilities.
and is satisfied that the combined knowledge and experience of its members is such that the Committee discharges its The Audit and Risk Committee terms of reference set out in full responsibilities in an effective, informed and challenging manner.
the role, responsibilities and authority of the Committee and can be found on the Companys website at www.
Audit and Risk Committee meetings are by invitation and These were reviewed and updated during the year.
generally attended by: the Non-Executive Chairman: Group Finance Director: Group Risk & Compliance Director: the Committee activities during 2013 Group Internal Audit Director and by representatives of the The Committee met six times during the year.
planned around the financial calendar of the Company and the The Chairman of the Committee is directly available to and holds meeting held in May is specifically to focus on the risk, internal regular meetings with the Group Finance Director, Group Risk & control and compliance agendas.
Reports are received at all Compliance Director, Deputy Company Secretary who acts as meetings from the Group Risk & Compliance and Group Internal Secretary to the Committee, the Group Internal Audit Director Audit departments and new contract terms are also reviewed and external Auditor.
68 | Capita plc Audit and Risk Committee report During the year the Committee undertook the following activities: Ongoing: Reviewed a wide range of financial reporting and related matters during the year, in addition to the review of Internal Controls Received and considered reports from the Group the half year and annual accounts prior to their submission and Risk Internal Audit Director on the audits undertaken to the Board.
The Committee focused in particular on critical and results and actions of audits accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and Review of foreign operations risk assessment any significant areas of judgement that materially impact on results reported results.
Review of training by all staff in control areas At each meeting an update was also received from Group Risk Met with the Group Risk & Compliance Director, Deputy Company Secretary and Group Internal & Compliance and Group Internal Audit.
The Committee is Audit Director independently of Executive also responsible for the policies on whistleblowing speak up Directors and the provision of the non-audit services by the external Monitoring on an ongoing basis the internal Auditor.
Both policies are published on the Companys intranet controls that are operated by management to and internet www.
The Committee also receives ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders feedback from the Group Financial Services Risk Committee that brings together all the regulated areas within the Group.
Review of major contract wins Review the internal audits undertaken and the During 2013, we commenced a programme to refresh our overall schedule of the audits for the remainder of the risk management framework to better support the ongoing year development of the business.
2014 will see the continuation Review of the business plan for Risk & Compliance of this development and roll out to the wider business.
and Internal Audit Further detail is shown on page 37 of the strategic report.
Ongoing reporting on Group safety, health and environment Significant issues in relation to the financial Received presentations from each Divisional statements considered by the Audit and Risk Committee Director on the risks within their business and the approach towards this area Accounting for major contracts The Group is successful in signing new and renewed contracts.
Commenced a programme to refresh our overall risk management framework to better support Due to the size and complexity of some of these contracts, there the ongoing development of the business are judgements to be applied, including the measurement and Reviewed the activities and minutes of the Group timing of revenue recognition and the recognition of assets and Financial Services Risk Committee.
liabilities that result from the performance of the contract.
External Auditor Considered and approved the audit approach The Audit and Risk Committee receives a summary presentation and scope of audit to be undertaken by KPMG for all new major contracts as they are won.
These reports Met with KPMG independently of Executive include an overall summary of the contract, the financial Directors projections, and key risks and assumptions.
The proposed Received reporting from KPMG on the audit accounting for major contracts is considered by the Group findings Finance Director to ensure compliance with the Groups Considered the level of non-audit services accounting policies and to understand their impact on the being provided by KPMG to satisfy itself that the objectivity and independence of KPMG was financial statements.
Technical advice is taken where necessary safeguarded from the Groups technical accounting team and also from the Review and approval of the representation letter external Auditor.
Major contracts continue to be monitored required by KPMG through the monthly operating boards and any serious issues Received a report from KPMG on the audit identified in respect of these contracts are referred back to the planning for the year-end process.
Accounting, tax Review and recommendation of the annual The Committee has also reviewed the external Auditors findings and financial report and accounts and the half yearly and where necessary sought further confirmation or explanation reporting accounts including the financial and nonfrom the Group Finance Director and the Board to concur that financial aspects, including a review of the significant accounting policies and to ensure the correct accounting treatments of major contracts has been these accounts give a fair, balanced and clear applied and that disclosure is sufficient.
presentation of the performance of the Group Corporate governance updates in relation to matters pertaining to the scope of the Committee Review of the disclosures of internal controls, risk management and principal risks and uncertainties within the report and accounts.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 69 Acquisition activity and accounting Divestment and planned closure of businesses in year Significant acquisitions are reviewed by the Board and the Audit The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the financial statements and Risk Committee to ensure that the acquisition is in line with in conjunction with the external Auditors report to satisfy itself Group strategy and sufficient due diligence is undertaken in order that a reader of the accounts is able to make a fair judgement of to understand the business being acquired and any identified those results including the quality of earnings.
The main area of consideration this year was the recognition As part of the on-boarding of acquisitions into the business, of the loss resulting from the disposal of some of our insurance the accounting policies of each acquisition are examined and, distribution businesses and the announcement of the planned where they are non-compliant with Group policy, they are closure of our self-invested pensions administration business.
adjusted in the opening balance sheet to ensure consistency.
Judgements were required to establish the loss on disposal, The assets and liabilities are reviewed to ensure that they are including the identification of assets disposed, any liabilities fairly stated and that there is sufficient evidence to support any remaining post disposal and the estimated cost of running off adjustments to carrying values including the recognition of any the closed businesses.
The Board, including the Audit and Risk previously unrecognised balances.
The Group Finance Director Committee, has reviewed the documentation related to these and Group Financial Controller review the resulting acquired two transactions including their financial impact.
In order to fully opening balance sheet for each acquisition.
The profitability of understand the impact of the disposal and closure on the Group acquisitions is monitored through the monthly operating boards and to best understand the financials of the ongoing business, and any serious issues identified in respect of these acquisitions this loss has been presented as a non-underlying transaction in are referred back to the Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the acquisition disclosure in the The Committee is satisfied that the quantitative and qualitative financial statements in conjunction with the external auditors information provided in the financial statements is sufficient and findings and where necessary sought further confirmation provides a good understanding of the transactions that were or explanation from the Board in order to conclude that the undertaken in the year and determined that there was no single disclosures are appropriate and that acquisition accounting has transaction other than the disposal and closure referred to above been appropriately applied.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangibles Other issues in relation to the financial statements The Group has a significant goodwill balance representing considered by the Audit and Risk Committee consideration paid in excess of the fair value of the identified net Defined benefit pension liabilities assets acquired.
The net assets acquired include intangible assets The measurement of the defined benefit liability in respect of which are determined at the date of acquisition.
The Committee defined benefit pension schemes is a complex area, relying on recognises that there is a risk that businesses can become assumptions on inflation, mortality, returns on corporate bonds, impaired, for example, due to market changes or product expectations of returns on assets and a number of other inputs.
As a result, the Group monitors carrying values of There is risk in any one of these areas of misstatement of the goodwill and intangibles to ensure that they are recoverable and Groups liability in respect of these obligations and the pension any specific indicators of goodwill or intangible impairment are charge that is recognised in the income statement.
discussed in the monthly operating boards.
The Committee reviews the disclosures in the financial This carrying value of goodwill is subject to impairment testing, statements, along with the external Auditors report and receives on an annual basis.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible representations from the Group Finance Director and external assets are reviewed on the identification of a possible indicator Auditor with regard to the assumptions included in the valuation of impairment, to ensure that carrying amounts are recoverable.
This testing, including the key assumptions and sensitivity analysis, is reviewed by the Group Finance Director and Group Having made these enquiries, the Committee determined that the valuation of the pension obligation and the accompanying Financial Controller.
disclosure is in line with expectations.
The Committee has reviewed the external Auditors report and, where necessary, sought further confirmation or explanation Provisions from the Board and specifically the Group Finance Director and There is judgement applied in the level of provisioning across Group Financial Controller, to ensure that the value of goodwill the Group.
This involves making an assessment of the size and and the disclosures included in these financial statements are timing of probable economic outflows due to the occurrence appropriate.
The Audit and Risk Committee, having made these of a past event.
The Committee has reviewed the disclosure in enquiries, agrees with management that no impairment need the financial statements and, where necessary, made enquiries be recognised.
of the Group Finance Director and management to gain an understanding of the amounts recorded.
The Committee is satisfied that the disclosure in the accounts is sufficient to gain an understanding of the nature of these provisions and their impact on the financial statements.
70 | Capita plc Audit and Risk Committee report Underlying and non-underlying presentation the Audit and Risk Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the Group audit fee against other comparable companies, The Committee remains of the view that the presentation of both within and outside of the Groups sector, to ensure the underlying and non-underlying information provides useful ongoing objectivity in the audit process disclosure to aid the understanding of the performance of the Group.
the Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of non-audit fees accruing to the Auditor, and specific Materiality assignments are discussed in advance with the Auditor and Materiality is important in determining the risk attached to flagged for the approval of the Audit and Risk Committee, as any judgement.
Materiality is set with the external Auditor appropriate, and in accordance with the Companys policy on to ensure that the Audit and Risk Committee is informed of the provision of non-audit services by the Auditor.
The Audit individual items above a certain threshold that are most likely and Risk Committee reviews, in aggregate, non-audit fees of to have an impact on the financial statements.
The Audit and this nature on a six monthly basis and considers implications Risk Committee reviews the external Auditors report and the for the objectivity and independence of the relationship with individual items that breach the materiality thresholds and the Auditor.
assess their relative impact on the reported statements: income Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental statement, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and criterion in the selection of any third party auditor for cash flow as well as the notes to the accounts.
assignments with which the Group is involved.
Such conflicts The Committee requests further clarification from both the may arise across public or private sector clients and key supplier external Auditor, the Group Finance Director and Group Financial relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in the Controller as to the nature of these items and also their relative award process for external audit assignments.
importance in the financial statements.
Non-audit fees After having made such enquiries, the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee has established a policy on the provision are satisfied that materiality has been applied correctly in the of services by the Groups Auditor.
The policy describes the accounts and that material items brought to their attention circumstances in which the Auditor may be permitted to remain unadjusted where their inclusion would not cause undertake non-audit work for the Group.
The Committee detriment to the overall reading of the financial statements.
oversees compliance with the policy and considers and approves requests to use the Auditor for non-audit work.
Any assignment Disclosure of information to Auditor where the expected fee is above 150,000 requires specific The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this approval from the Committee or a member of the Committee.
Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, The Deputy Company Secretary deals with day-to-day there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys administration of the policy, facilitating requests for approval by Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that the Committee.
The Auditor undertook various non-audit work they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves such as assistance on acquisitions and bids across our business aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the in 2013.
Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
The policy is reviewed by the Committee annually.
Details of Statutory Auditor audit and non-audit fees are given in note 7 on page 108.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups Auditor KPMG, and it advises the Board on the appointment, External Auditor performance independence and objectivity of the Auditor and on the The Committee discussed the performance of KPMG during remuneration for both statutory audit and non-audit work.
the period and was satisfied that the level of communication It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of the statutory and reporting was in line with requirements.
The evaluation audit with the Auditor.
The Audit and Risk Committee annually of KPMG also included the planning of the audit and a post performs an independent assessment of the suitability and audit evaluation.
performance of the Auditor in making its recommendation to the External Auditor re-appointment Board for their re-appointment.
The Companys audit services were last subject to a tender Auditor independence process in 2010 at which time KPMG Audit Plc replaced The Committee takes seriously its responsibility to put in Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups Auditor.
The lead audit partner place safeguards to Auditor objectivity and independence.
at Group level changed with effect from the beginning of the The Company is committed to ensuring appropriate current financial year.
His predecessor who had been lead independence in its relationship with the Auditor and the key audit partner on KPMGs appointment in 2010 retired from the safeguards are: firm in 2013.
The lead audit partner is rotated on a five-yearly basis.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the the Group Finance Director monitors the independence of Committees choice of auditor.
The Code states that FTSE 350 the Auditor as part of the Groups assessment of Auditor companies should tender the provision of audit services at least effectiveness and reports to the Audit and Risk Committee every 10 years or explain their approach, if different.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 71 KPMG Audit Plc has notified the Company that they are not Internal audit seeking reappointment.
This is to facilitate the orderly wind The Groups finance department includes a separate internal down of the business of KPMG Audit Plc.
It is proposed that audit function which is managed by a qualified auditor.
A full KPMG LLP be put forward as the Auditor of the Company at the programme of internal audit visits has been completed during forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will hold office from the year.
The scope of audit work generally focuses on internal the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next management control and risk procedures that are operating with general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, each of the Groups businesses.
and that their remuneration be fixed by the Directors.
Written reports are prepared on the results of internal audit A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as the Auditor of the Company work during the year and submitted alongside verbal updates will be put forward at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
of in-progress activity to the Audit and Risk Committee by the Group Internal Audit Director.
The representations given would Risk management and internal control set out strengths and weaknesses identified during the work, The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness together with any recommendations for remedial action or of the Groups system of internal control.
The system of further review.
internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate The reports are reviewed and discussed with Executive Directors.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Throughout the year the Group Internal Audit Director reports only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against on the work carried out.
The Board has established a clear organisational structure with defined authority levels.
The Committee reviews managements response to the matters The day-to-day running of the Groups business is delegated to raised and ensures that any action is commensurate with the the Executive Directors of the Company.
The Executive Directors level of risk, whether real or perceived.
meet with both operational and finance management on a There were no significant weaknesses identified in the year, monthly basis through the Groups programme of monthly but a number of recommendations were acted upon within operating board meetings.
the Group to strengthen in-place controls or risk awareness.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a The Committee remains satisfied that the Groups systems of monthly basis and are measured against both business plan internal controls work well and that the resources required to budget and monthly re-forecasts in these meetings.
complete a full and targeted programme of internal audit work, within a group of Capitas size, are in place.
The Committee have implemented a programme of agenda items that give them the opportunity to hear on a more regular Anti-bribery and whistleblowing speak up basis from the Managing Directors of the Groups nine divisions Capita has a Group wide anti-bribery and corruption policy to to determine the risks inherent in those businesses and to comply with the Bribery Act 2010 and it periodically reviews understand how risk and control processes work in their areas.
its procedures to ensure continued effective compliance in its On an annual basis, through the business planning process, each businesses around the world.
business unit is required to prepare a risk assessment process on The policy provides the framework to encourage and give the key strategic, operational, financial and accounting risks to employees confidence to blow the whistle and report identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to the Groups irregularities.
Employees are encouraged to raise concerns business.
They include common definitions of risk and ensure, as with designated individuals, including the Executive Directors far as practicable, that the policies and procedures established or the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
All such by the Board are appropriate to manage the perceived risks to reports will be investigated and reported to the Committee, the Group.
together with details of corrective action taken.
The Groups These assessments are supplemented by a detailed evaluation whistleblowing policy is monitored by the Committee and of the key financial controls of the business units which are incidences are reported on in each meeting by the Group Risk critically reviewed by the Groups Director of Compliance and and Compliance Director.
During the year, the risk assessment process revealed no significant risks of which the Board was not previously aware.
Paul Bowtell The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to Chairman have the most significant impact on the Groups long term Audit and Risk Committee performance are set out on pages 38 to 39.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management 26 February 2014 and internal control systems.
Taking into account the existing 2013 policies and the refresh of the overall risk management framework commenced in 2013 and to be continued in 2014, the Board, with the advice of the Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems and is satisfied that the Group has in place effective risk management and internal control systems.
72 | Capita plc Audit and Risk Committee report Remuneration Committee Group Financial Services Risk Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are The Group Financial Services Risk Committee was established given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 78 to 92. at the beginning of 2012 and meets at least quarterly to assess the risks across Capitas financial services businesses.
Dialogue with shareholders The Forum is chaired by Tim Brooke, independent non-executive.
The Board encourages and seeks to build a mutual understanding Membership includes Martin Bolland, Vic Gysin and Gordon of objectives between the Group and its shareholders.
As part of Hurst with the Group Risk & Compliance Director and the Group this process the Executive Directors make regular presentations Internal Audit Director.
Other key divisional staff are invited to and meet with institutional shareholders to discuss the Groups attend and report to this forum.
All Non-Executive Directors business model and growth strategy, address any issues of have open invitations to attend any of these meetings.
concern, obtain feedback and consider corporate governance The terms of reference for this forum include: issues.
The Board welcomes the revised UK Stewardship reviewing and commenting upon Group control function Code 2012 and the steps it has made to improve engagement oversight plans and monitoring their progress and purposeful dialogue between companies and investors.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General reviewing material findings arising from oversight activities and Meeting and information for shareholders is available on the issues identified by management Companys website www.
All the Non-Executive tracking key regulatory changes impacting on the Groups Directors are available to meet with shareholders to understand regulated firms their views more fully.
The Chairman is personally available to the tracking key business developments, including bids, significant shareholders of the Group.
acquisitions and offshoring developments The Corporate Communications team has effective day-to-day receiving updates on regulatory capital issues e. g. ICAAP responsibility for managing shareholder communications and reviewing and adopting policies applicable to the financial always acts in close consultation with the Board.
A Disclosure services businesses Committee consisting of the Corporate Communications Director, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director ensures identifying items for the attention of the Board or Audit all appropriate communications are made to the London Committee.
Shareholders can also The scope of the Committee includes the FCA in the UK and the access up-to-date information through the Groups website equivalent financial services regulator in other jurisdictions where at www.
A telephone helpline, 0871 664 0300, the Group operates regulated financial services firms.
provides a contact point directly to the Groups registrars.
The Group Financial Services Risk Committee met five times in All members of the Board, including the Non-Executive 2013 and attendance was as follows: Directors, receive a report on any significant discussions with shareholders and feedback that follows the annual and halfName of member Number of meetings attended yearly presentations to investment analysts and shareholders.
Tim Brooke 5 All analyst reports concerning Capita are circulated to Martin Bolland 1 the Directors.
Directors, including the Chair of the various committees, are Vic Gysin 4 present at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
Gordon Hurst 5 The Board particularly encourages communication with and the Chris Terry Group Risk & participation of private investors at the Annual General Meeting.
Compliance Director 4 Internal control Martin Bolland was appointed in September 2013 following a change to the terms of reference.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Groups key internal control procedures are fully documented within the During 2013 we formed the Non-Financial Services Risk strategic report on pages 1 to 57.
This will be formalised in the same way as the Financial Services Risk Committee and will be reported on in 2014.
