Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Directors present the Companys Corporate The Board is responsible for setting the Companys Governance Report.
The biographies of the Directors strategic aims for its long-term success and ensuring and executive management on the pages immediately that the necessary resources are in place to these preceding this Report demonstrate a strength of ends, delegating as appropriate to the executive experience in the areas required to oversee and management of JRCM.
In general terms, they are implement the Companys strategic, investment and responsible for the implementation and execution of operational aims.
Many of the Directors hold or have the Boards strategic directives relating to investment held senior director positions at prominent investment management, governance and administration.
banks, asset management companies or audit firms The Board met formally five times in the year ended specialising in the asset management industry.
The attendance of the Directors addition, there are Directors with considerable was as follows: experience beyond these areas, including Government and general commercial organisations.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended This report describes the Companys principal Lord Rothschild 5 5 governance bodies, their composition, purpose and Michael Marks 5 5 operation.
It also covers the other aspects of the John Cornish 5 5 Companys governance prescribed under the UK Lord Douro 5 5 Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code to Jean Laurent-Bellue 5 4 which the Company is subject and which may be 1 James Leigh-Pemberton 4 4 viewed at www.
The Directors believe that Lord Myners 5 5 the Company has complied with the provisions of the Sandra Robertson 5 4 Code throughout the year, except as described on 2 page 26.
Hannah Rothschild 1 1 3 Mike Wilson 0 0 The Board of Directors 1 Retired 1 October 2013 2 The Company is an investment trust managed by its Appointed 15 August 2013 3 Appointed 1 October 2013 Board of Directors the Board comprising ten Directors currently.
The Chairman is executive, Jean The non-executive Directors also meet once a year Laurent-Bellue and Hannah Rothschild are nonwithout executive management present to consider independent and non-executive and the remaining the conclusions of the annual Board evaluation seven are independent non-executive Directors.
exercise and the performance of the Chairman.
The Board has a formal Schedule of Reserved In addition, there are five permanent Board Matters, which may be viewed on the Companys committees a majority of whose membership is website www.
This is designed to comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
prescribe the responsibilities of the Board in The composition of these committees is set out managing the Companys business within a below.
Each committee has its own Terms of framework of prudent and effective controls to Reference which may be viewed on the Companys facilitate assessment and management of risk.
24 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report Committee Membership as at 5 March 2014 Audit and Risk Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee John Cornish Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman Lord Douro Chairman Lord Douro Lord Douro John Cornish Lord Myners Michael Marks Michael Marks Mike Power Mike Wilson Valuation Committee Conflicts Committee John Cornish Chairman Lord Douro Chairman Lord Myners John Cornish Mike Power Michael Marks Sandra Robertson The Audit and Risk Committee The Nominations Committee The Audit and Risk Committee Report may be found The Nominations Committee comprises three on pages 30 and 31.
Directors, two of whom are independent nonexecutive and the third is Lord Rothschild, the The Committee met formally on four occasions in the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets at year ended 31 December 2013 with attendance as least once a year on a formal basis, and additional follows: occasions as required.
It is responsible for the process of the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended During the year, the Committee discharged its John Cornish 4 4 responsibilities as set out in its Terms of Reference.
1 Michael Marks 1 1 These included the consideration and recommendation 2 James Leigh-Pemberton 3 2 of the two Director appointments made and changes 1 Lord Douro 1 1 in the membership of Board Committees.
Lord Myners 4 4 The Committee is mindful of succession planning and 1 Appointed 5 December 2013 board balance and diversity, including on grounds of 2 Retired 1 October 2013 gender, when recommending appointments to the The Conflicts Committee Board.
Neither open advertising nor external search The Conflicts Committee meets at least once a year on consultancies have been used for non-executive a formal, scheduled basis and on other occasions as Director appointments, as the Board and Nominations and when required.
The Committee is chaired by Lord Committee utilise their broad range of business Douro and comprised of independent directors.
The contacts to identify candidates on the basis of their Committees principal responsibilities cover proposed potential contribution to the Company.
co-investment or related party transactions and the The attendance record of the members of the approval of cost sharing arrangements with parties Committee in the year to 31 December 2013 was as related to Lord Rothschild or any other Director as follows: described in note 30.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and pre-approving any arrangements No.
of meetings entered into between the Group and any of its Member invited to attend attended Directors, or their connected interests, to ensure that Lord Rothschild 11 any conflicts of interest are avoided or pre-approved Lord Douro 11 and managed appropriately.
1 James Leigh-Pemberton 00 The attendance record of the members in the year to Michael Marks 11 1 Retired 1 October 2013 31 December 2013 was as follows: No.
of meetings The Valuation Committee Member invited to attend attended The Valuation Committee comprises four Directors, all of Lord Douro 11 whom are independent.
Mike Power was appointed to John Cornish 11 the Committee subsequent to the year-end.
The 1 James Leigh-Pemberton 00 Committee, which is chaired by John Cornish, meets at Michael Marks 11 least twice each year and additionally as may be required.
1 Retired 1 October 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 25 Corporate Governance Report Its principal responsibility is to review the Companys The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee direct private investments to ensure they are presented presents the Directors Remuneration Report on in the annual and half-yearly accounts at fair value.
The Committee met formally on two occasions in the UK Corporate Governance Code year ended 31 December 2013 with attendance as The Company has not complied with the following follows: provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, as explained below.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended A.
2.1 Chairman has executive responsibilities John Cornish 22 B.
2.3 Non-executive directors are not appointed for Sandra Robertson 22 specified terms Lord Myners 22 Chairman with Executive Responsibilities The Remuneration Committee Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an The Remuneration Committee comprises four nonExecutive Director.
The Board recognises that this is at executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
The variance with the recommendations of the Code, Committee, which is chaired by Lord Douro, meets at which are concerned with the potential problems of least once each year on a formal basis and additionally combining the running of the Board with the executive as may be required.
Its primary responsibility is the responsibility for the running of the Company.
The creation and maintenance of remuneration policies Board believes that the current arrangements are designed to attract, retain and motivate Directors and appropriate for a self-managed investment trust and executive management appropriately.
are in the best interests of the Company and its The Committee reviews the total remuneration shareholders on an ongoing basis.
The Company has packages including pension arrangements, of the in place a structure of permanent committees, Chairman and executive management, ensuring an described on the preceding pages, which are designed appropriate balance between fixed and performanceto devolve responsibility and control of certain key related elements.
This exercise is conducted in part by areas of Board responsibility away from the Chairman.
reference to other companies of similar size and The Audit and Risk Committee, the Conflicts business objectives.
Executive management provides Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the information to the Committee, although individuals are Valuation Committee are comprised entirely of not present when their own remuneration is independent non-executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee receives the Nominations Committee is chaired by Lord Rothschild, advice of New Bridge Street NBS, the remuneration independent non-executive Directors represent a consultancy.
The Group has no other relationships with majority of its members.
The Board is therefore of the NBS, which is therefore independent.
view that the Company is not at risk from a The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the concentration of power caused by the Chairman fees paid to the non-executive Directors, by reference having executive responsibilities and believes that to the roles and time commitment of each individual Lord Rothschild is well qualified for both roles.
concerned, although the final determination of the fees payable to non-executive Directors is a matter for As Chairman, Lord Rothschild is responsible for the the Board of Directors as a whole.
leadership of the Board and its effectiveness in dealing with the matters reserved for its decision with The attendance of the members at the meetings of adequate time for discussion.
This includes ensuring the Committee held in the year to 31 December 2013 a culture of openness and debate and that Directors was as follows: are properly briefed on issues arising at Board No.
He is also responsible for ensuring Member invited to attend attended effective communication with shareholders, making Lord Douro 33 Directors aware of any concerns raised by John Cornish 33 1 shareholders and for facilitating the full and effective James Leigh-Pemberton 22 contribution of the non-executive Directors.
Michael Marks 32 2 Mike Wilson 11 Board Balance and Independence 1 Retired 1 October 2013 The Board is comprised of 10 Directors of whom one 2 Appointed 1 October 2013 is executive, two are non-independent and nonexecutive and seven are non-executive and independent.
This balance is intended to limit the 26 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report scope for an individual, or a small group of individuals, In accordance with the Code, the Board considered to dominate the Boards decision making.
More than the proposed re-election of Mr Marks after a half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, therefore particularly rigorous review, as he has served as a comprises non-executive Directors determined by the Director beyond six years.
He remains independent Board to be independent.
and eligible for re-election for the following reasons: The size and composition of the Board is considered He is a senior, full-time executive at a financial to be suitable for the Companys size and business, services organisation unconnected to RIT whilst not being so large as to be unwieldy.
He does not receive any other remuneration from Information and Professional Development the Group other than his Directors fees Appropriate training on listed company governance There are no relationships or circumstances likely and on the Company is provided to new Directors on to affect his judgement their initial appointment.
He continues to challenge objectively and robustly JRCM provides information on financial and question management regulatory developments in the papers provided for Board and Committee meetings.
Following the performance evaluation of the Board described above, it is confirmed that the performance All Directors are entitled to take independent of each Director standing for re-election continues to professional advice, including legal advice, at the be satisfactory.
The re-election of each of the Companys expense where they judge it necessary to Directors standing at the forthcoming AGM is discharge their responsibilities as Directors, up to a therefore recommended by the Board.
Relations with Shareholders The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring The Board and JRCMs executive management that Board procedures and applicable rules and maintain a dialogue with both institutional shareholders regulations are complied with and for advising the and analysts and also respond promptly to other Board, through the Chairman, on corporate shareholders enquiries.
Shareholders are invited to ask governance matters.
questions at the AGM and, as far as is practicable, the Performance Evaluation Chairmen of the Boards committees and the other The Code requires the Company to report on the Directors will be available to answer any questions means by which performance evaluation of the from shareholders.
Board, its committees and its individual Directors has Status of Company been conducted.
Following the external review by The Company is registered as a public company and Armstrong Bonham Carter in 2012, the annual is incorporated in England and Wales, Company performance evaluation was carried out between Registration Number 2129188.
December 2013 and January 2014 by means of an internally prepared questionnaire.
The summarised The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify for responses were evaluated and considered by the approval as an investment trust for tax purposes.
Board and separately by the non-executive Directors The Company has been accepted as an approved in a meeting without the Chairman or executive investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs, subject management present.
to continuing to meet eligibility conditions.
Re-Election of Directors The Directors are of the opinion that the Company Non-executive Directors are not appointed for has conducted its affairs in a manner which will specified terms.
As all Directors stand for re-election satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an annually, neither the Nominations Committee nor the investment trust under Section 1158 of the Board consider that such contractual limitations Corporation Tax Act 2010. would be in the best interests of the Company.
The Company is not a close company within the The UK Corporate Governance Code incorporates a meaning of Section 439 of the Corporation Tax Act requirement that all directors of FTSE 350 companies 2010. should be put forward for re-election every year.
All Directors will stand for election or re-election at the The Companys subsidiaries are mainly engaged in Companys 2014 AGM.
The Notice of AGM is investment activities and the activities of the Group contained in a separate document circulated to are principally undertaken in the UK.
registered shareholders, which may be viewed on the Companys website: www.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 27 Corporate Governance Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report Each of the Directors, whose names and responsibilities and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report are listed in the Corporate Governance Report and the financial statements in accordance with confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been Company law requires the Directors to prepare prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by financial statements for each financial year.
Under the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, that law the Directors have prepared the Group and liabilities, financial position and profit of the Parent Company financial statements in accordance Group: and with International Financial Reporting Standards the Directors Report contains a fair review of the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under development and performance of the business and company law the Directors must not approve the the position of the Group, together with a financial statements unless they are satisfied that description of the principal risks and uncertainties they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of that it faces.
the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss Principal Risks and their Management of the Group for that period.
In preparing these The principal risks facing RIT include both financial risks financial statements, the Directors are required to: and operational risks.
The ongoing process for select suitable accounting policies and then apply identifying, evaluating and managing these risks is the them consistently: ultimate responsibility of the Board and the Audit and make judgements and accounting estimates that Risk Committee.
Day-to-day management is undertaken are reasonable and prudent: by JRCM within parameters set by the Board.
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the As an investment company, RIT is exposed to financial European Union have been followed, subject to risks inherent in its portfolio which are primarily marketany material departures disclosed and explained in related and common to any portfolio predominantly the financial statements: invested in equities.
These financial risks include market risk price risk, interest rate risk and currency prepare the financial statements on the going risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These are monitored concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume and managed by the Investment Committee and the that the company will continue in business.
Investment Risk Committee of JRCM.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate In relation to the financial risk management, detailed accounting records that are sufficient to show and portfolio valuations are prepared each week which explain the Company's transactions and disclose with form the basis for the ongoing risk control decisions reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position regarding asset allocation and exposure to market of the Company and the Group and enable them to risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Detailed scenario ensure that the financial statements and the modelling is undertaken to assess likely downside Directors' Remuneration Report comply with the risks as well as assessing the underlying correlations Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group amongst the separate asset classes.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets In addition, the Board is responsible for monitoring of the Company and the Group and hence for taking the Companys strategy to ensure it is appropriate to reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of meet the Companys Corporate Objective by fraud and other irregularities.
following the Companys Investment Policy.
Operational risks include those related to legal, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance regulatory, taxation and other areas where internal or and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in external factors could result in financial or reputational the United Kingdom governing the preparation and loss.
These are monitored and managed by the dissemination of financial statements may differ from Operational Risk Committee of JRCM.
In common with other similar businesses, investment The Directors consider that the Report and Accounts decisions are made by a small number of key taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable individuals.
If for any reason the services of these and provides the information necessary for individuals were to become unavailable, there could be a shareholders to assess the Companys performance, significant impact on our business.
This 'key man' risk is business model and strategy.
monitored and managed by the Board, which has 28 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report established procedures in place for the mitigation of As part of the review of the control environment, an these risks.
As an investment trust, RITs operations are internal audit of selected areas is undertaken.
This is subject to wide ranging regulations including listed performed on an annual basis and follows a rolling company rules, specific and general tax legislation and program targeting key areas.
The precise scope and statute.
The Report and Accounts are prepared in depth of the remit will continue to be reviewed and, accordance with IFRS and, where consistent, the as appropriate, expanded.
Where required Statement of Recommended Practice of the Association improvements are identified, timetables are agreed of Investment Companies.
RIT, or its relevant for implementing these and progress is monitored subsidiaries, are subject to both domestic and against these timetables.
Clear and direct reporting international regulation, including by the Financial lines between those conducting the reviews and the Conduct Authority and the European Union.
Failure to Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee have been act in accordance with these regulations could cause established to maximise the independence of the fines, censure or otherwise losses.
The executive function from JRCMs executive management.
management of JRCM, under the supervision of the The Group also monitors the compliance of external Board and the Audit and Risk Committee, is responsible managers with the terms of their investment for the day-to-day compliance with the relevant rules.
It management agreements as well as reviewing their is also tasked with identifying emerging risks in this area internal control procedures.
and ensuring an appropriate response is in place.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key The Group has established procedures to ensure its systems of internal control in operation during the ability to continue operating following a disruption financial year and up to the date of this report through caused by an event such as a fire, act of terrorism or the Audit and Risk Committee.
During the course of similar at its St Jamess Place offices.
The Groups its two reviews of the system of internal controls Business Continuity Plan ensures that all data is during the year, the Audit and Risk Committee has not stored at remote locations and also provides identified or been appraised of any failings or alternative accommodation to key staff to minimise weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
any disruption to the business.
The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key The Audit and Risk Committee, working with the controls exercised over its financial and operating Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for ensuring that an affairs.
Duties are segregated to an extent appropriate system of risk management and internal commensurate with the size of the Groups controls is in place.
As part of this approach, an organisation and business environment.
internal audit of selected areas is undertaken on an annual basis.
Further information is set out below.
Statement on Going Concern The Directors have assessed the ability of the Internal Control Company and the Group to continue as a going The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups concern with reference to guidance issued by the system of internal control although it has delegated the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
The supervision of the system to the Audit and Risk Company and the Groups business activities, Committee.
Such systems are designed to manage, together with the factors likely to affect its future rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve development, performance and position are set out in business objectives and, as such, can provide only the Chairmans Statement and the Strategic Report.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated As at the year-end the Group had cash at bank of to JRCMs executive management the implementation 51.6 million, money market funds of 35.4 million of the system of internal control within an established and government bonds of 48.6 million.
In addition to framework applicable throughout the Group.
The these liquidity balances the Group held quoted system of internal control is reviewed twice each year.
The Groups borrowings The Board considers that the necessary procedures totalled 197.4 million under a facility that expires in have been implemented to satisfy the requirements of December 2016. the Financial Conduct Authority with respect to the The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Company and the Group have adequate resources, an Directors on the Combined Code last revised in 2005. appropriate financial structure and suitable The Executive Committee of JRCM allocates defined management arrangements in place to continue to levels of authority and reporting responsibility in respect adopt the going concern basis in preparing the of the operational, compliance, financial and taxation financial statements.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 29
