Audit and Risk Committee Report The Audit and Risk Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the The Committee considers that the most significant Audit and Risk Committee Report for the year ended issues faced by the Group with respect to its 31 December 2013.
Financial Statements are: Valuation of Direct Private Investments The Audit and Risk Committee comprises four non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent Related Party Disclosures of the Company with myself as Committee Chairman.
I am an Fellow of the Institute of Chartered These issues have been addressed by the Committee Accountants, and was a partner at Deloitte LLP.
chairman of the audit committees of three other public companies, and am considered by the Board to Valuation of Direct Private Investments have appropriate financial experience.
Lord Myners is Direct Private Investments make up over 12% of net a member of the Committee.
By their very nature such investments merit Pemberton retired on 1 October 2013.
Lord Douro individual attention when considering their fair value.
and Michael Marks were appointed on 5 December The estimation of their fair value requires the exercise 2013.
Michael Marks stepped down as a member of of considerable judgement and most likely the use of the Committee on 14 February 2014 following the a range of valuation techniques.
This subjectivity appointment of Mike Power on 23 January 2014.
The means that there is a higher degree of uncertainty in biographies of the Committee members are set out such valuations compared with other assets.
The Audit and Risk Committee has considered the The remit of the Audit and Risk Committee work overseen by the Valuation Committee and the incorporates its focus on the identification and results of the discussions of that Committee with management of risk covering principally financial, both executive management and the external operational, reputational and regulatory matters auditors.
We consider the work to be detailed, across the Group.
comprehensive and also consider that the persons preparing the reports have sufficient and appropriate As part of this role the Committee monitors the risk expertise through their experience and qualifications.
profile and tolerance acceptable to the Company and Furthermore we believe that the process is planned set by the Board in delivering the business strategy, and managed so as to devote adequate time and and ensures this is communicated appropriately resource to preparation and review by both executive within the Company.
Members of the Committee management and members of the Valuation receive monthly reports detailing investment Committee.
exposure as well as currency and liquidity positioning compared to the Board approved limits.
Related Party Disclosures Related party transactions are a common feature of The Committee also meets on two separate and commerce and business.
The Company often takes dedicated occasions to review the effectiveness of advantage of opportunities offered to it, or services the Groups system of internal controls by reference provided to it via the many relationships it and its to reports prepared and compiled by management Board of Directors has built up over time.
Disclosure and the Groups internal audit function.
The remaining of such transactions is a legal requirement in order to matters in the Audit and Risk Committees Terms of allow shareholders and other users of the Financial Reference are considered as and when necessary.
Statements to assess the risks and opportunities facing the Company.
Any failure to properly address The Committee monitors the adequacy of the Groups this requirement could expose the Company to and Parent Companys accounting policies and reputational damage.
financial reporting, which are discussed with the external auditors,  LLP, at We consider the work of the Conflicts Committee in least twice yearly.
reviewing cost sharing arrangements, co-investment transactions and any other similar arrangements with The Committee meets twice each year to review the parties related to any Director, and have discussed Groups interim and annual financial statements, to with executive management the systems and consider reports thereon from the external auditor processes in place to identify, record and disclose and to review any issues arising with JRCMs such transactions.
We note the importance the executive management.
30 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Audit and Risk Committee Report Chairman and executive management place upon  LLP or its antecedent this.
We have reviewed the disclosures made in the firms have been the Groups auditors since inception Financial Statements regarding such transactions and and there has not been an audit tender process.
consider them to be the result of a process designed Recent regulatory developments mean that it is likely to ensure that not only are the transactions the Company will be required to put its audit out to themselves on appropriate terms but that the tender within at least the next ten years and perhaps necessary disclosures have been made.
within the next six years.
Until this situation is resolved, the Committee believes that should periodic The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the rotation of the Lead Audit Partner fail to provide Groups whistleblowing procedures for staff to follow sufficient objectivity, or should the audit no longer in the event that they might have any concerns about prove cost effective, a tender process would be possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting considered.
Further information on fees paid to or other matters.
The procedures in place provide for  LLP is contained in note 4 staff to have direct recourse to the Audit and Risk of the Financial Statements.
The Companys external auditors attended the Independent Auditors meeting of the Audit and Risk Committee at which The Committee considers the external auditors the Report and Accounts was reviewed and reported independence, objectivity and the cost effectiveness on their audit approach and work undertaken, the of the audit process through a process of formal and quality and effectiveness of the Companys informal feedback from executive management.
The accounting records and their findings in relation to the level of non-audit services provided to the Group by Companys statutory audit.
the auditors is monitored as is the auditors objectivity in providing such services, to ensure that the The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the independence of the audit team from the Group is not performance of the auditors at this meeting and compromised.
Non-audit services provided by recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
 LLP in the year ended Going Concern 31 December 2013 totalled 0.2 million and were The Audit and Risk Committee is also responsible for primarily in relation to corporate advisory and taxation considering those matters that have informed the services.
That they were selected for this work was Boards assessment of whether the Company is a due to their expertise in the specific industry required.
going concern and which are referred to in the statement on going concern on page 29.
John Cornish 5 March 2014 Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 31
