Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Directors recognise the importance of sound corporate The Company does not have a chief executive or any governance, particularly the requirements of the AIC Code.
The Company has not established a separate remuneration committee as the Company has no The Company became a member of the AIC executive officers and the Board is satisfied that any relevant effective 15 January 2014 and in preparation has put in issues that arise can be properly considered by the Board.
place arrangements to comply with the AIC Code and, in accordance with the AIC Code, voluntarily complies The Company has no employees or internal operations with the Corporate Governance Code.
The Company and has therefore not reported further in respect of these is subject to the GFSC Code, which applies to all provisions.
The need for an internal audit function is companies that hold a licence from the GFSC under the discussed in the Audit Committee report.
regulatory laws or which are registered or authorised as Except for Principle 6 of the AIC Code, the Company collective investment schemes in Guernsey.
has complied throughout the period with the provisions The Board monitors the developments in corporate of the AIC Code.
Principle 6 of the AIC Code states governance to ensure the Board remains aligned with best Directors should consider the diversity of the Board, practice especially with respect to the increased focus on including gender.
Currently, the Companys Board is diversity.
The Board acknowledges the importance of comprised of male members.
The Board intends to diversity, including gender, for the effective functioning address this when a vacancy arises.
of the Board and commits to supporting diversity in the boardroom.
It is the Boards ongoing aspiration to have a well diversified representation.
The Board also values The Board diversity of business skills and experience because Directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained The Directors details are listed on pages 13 to 15 which from different geographical backgrounds enhance the Board set out their range of investment, financial and business by bringing a wide range of perspectives to the Company.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, Sir Robert Wilson, Mr Lapeyre and Mr Leuschen addresses all the principles set out in the Corporate were appointed on 23 May 2013 and the remaining Governance Code, as well as setting out additional Directors were appointed on 28 May 2013, with the principles and recommendations on issues that are of exception of Mr Barker who was appointed on specific relevance to investment companies such as the 20 September 2013, and all will submit themselves for Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the election at the first Annual General Meeting of the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, by Company.
At each subsequent Annual General Meeting reference to the AIC Guide, provides better information of the Company, each of the Directors at the date of to shareholders.
the notice convening the Annual General Meeting shall retire from office and may offer themselves for election The AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available on or re-election by the Shareholders.
The Corporate Governance Code is available on the Financial Reporting A Director who retires at an Annual General Meeting Councils website, www.
may, if willing to continue to act, be elected or re-elected at that meeting.
If, at a general meeting at which a Director The Company has complied with the recommendations retires, the Company neither re-elects that Director nor of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the appoints another person to the Board in the place of that Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
Director, the retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be The Corporate Governance Code includes provisions deemed to have been re-elected unless at the general relating to: meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or unless a resolution for the re-election of the Director is put to the role of the chief executive: the meeting and not passed.
The Board has considered the executive directors remuneration: and need for a policy regarding tenure of office, however, the Board believes that any decisions regarding tenure should the need for an internal audit function.
consider the need for continuity and maintenance of For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained knowledge and experience and to balance this against the in the Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers need to periodically refresh Board composition and have that the above provisions are not relevant to the position a balance of skills, experience, age and length of service.
of the Company, being an externally managed investment The Board intends to meet at least four times a year company, which delegates most day-to-day functions to and, in addition to maintaining regular contact between third parties.
the Board, the Investment Manager and the Administrator, the Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with information by the Investment Manager, the Administrator and other advisors in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Company has adopted a share dealing code for The Chairman of the Board must, on appointment, the Board and will seek to ensure compliance by the be independent and is appointed in accordance with the Board and relevant personnel of the Investment Manager Companys Articles of Incorporation.
Sir Robert Wilson with the terms of the share dealing code.
The share is considered to be independent because he: dealing code is compliant with the Model Code for has no current or historical employment with the Directors Dealings contained in the Listing Rules.
Investment Manager: The primary focus at Board meetings is a review has no current directorships or partnerships in any of investment performance and associated matters such other investment funds managed by the Investment as asset allocation, share price discount premium Manager: and management, investor relations, peer group information, gearing, industry issues and principal risks and is not an executive of a self-managed company or uncertainties in particular those identified on page 23. an ex-employee who has left the executive team of a self-managed company within the last five years.
The Board has overall responsibility for maximising the Directors Remuneration Companys success by directing and supervising the affairs of the business and meeting the appropriate The Chairman is entitled to annual remuneration of interests of shareholders and relevant stakeholders, while $199,000 120,000.
The other independent Directors enhancing the value of the Company and also ensuring are entitled to annual remuneration of $99,000 60,000. the protection of investors.
A summary of the Boards The four non-independent Directors have chosen not responsibilities is as follows: to be remunerated by the Company for their services.
statutory obligations and public disclosure: During the period to 31 December 2013, the Directors remuneration was as follows: strategic matters and financial reporting: 2013 $000 risk assessment and management including reporting, 1 compliance, governance, monitoring and control: and Sir Robert Wilson 121 1 Peter Barker 28 other matters having a material effect on the Company.
Lord John Browne 1 Patrick Firth 59 James Hackett Duties and Responsibilities 1 2 Richard Hayden 59 Pierre Lapeyre The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall David Leuschen management of the Company.
The duties and powers 1 Dr Tidu Maini 59 reserved for the Board include decisions relating to the determination of investment policy and approval of The above fees due to the Directors are for the period investments in certain instances, strategy, capital raising, from appointment to 31 December 2013, and all were statutory obligations and public disclosure, financial outstanding at that date.
reporting and entering into any material contracts by the Company.
Sir Robert Wilson was selected as the Companys Chairman in January 2013 and paid $0.4 million by the The Directors have access to the advice and services Investment Manager for services between his selection of the Administrator, who is responsible to the Board for and his appointment to the Board.
Consistent with the ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it recommendation of Principle 11 of the AIC Code the complies with Companies Law and applicable rules and Chairman was selected at the earliest practicable point regulations of the GFSC and the LSE.
Where necessary, in the process of launching the new company.
in carrying out their duties, the Directors may seek independent professional advice and services at the All of the Directors are non-executive.
Sir Robert expense of the Company.
The Company maintains 2 Wilson, Mr Barker, Mr Firth, Mr Hayden and Dr Maini Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of are each considered independent for the purposes of legal action against its Directors on an on-going basis.
Chapter 15 of the Listing Rules and the AIC Code.
Lord Browne, Mr Hackett, Mr Lapeyre and Mr Leuschen are The Boards responsibilities for the Annual Report are not considered independent because of their nomination set out in the Directors Responsibility Statement on page for appointment to the Board by the Investment 18.
The Board is also responsible for issuing appropriate Manager, pursuant to a right set out in the Investment half-yearly financial reports, interim management Management Agreement.
statements and other price-sensitive public reports.
The attendance record of the Directors for the period is set out below: Management Scheduled Board Audit Nomination Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings 3 3 3 Director max 2 max 1 max n a max n a max n a 1 Sir Robert Wilson 21 1 2 Peter Barker 1 n a Lord John Browne 2 n a 1 Patrick Firth 21 James Hackett 2 n a 1 4 Richard Hayden 2 n a Pierre Lapeyre 2 n a David Leuschen 2 n a 1 Dr Tidu Maini 2 n a and it is the Companys policy to give careful consideration Committees of the Board to issues of Board balance and diversity when making new appointments.
Audit Committee On 28 May 2013, the Board established an Audit Performance and Evaluation Committee which held its first meeting on 12 February In accordance with Principle 7 of the AIC Code, the 2014.
There has been ongoing discussion between the chair Board is required to undertake a formal and rigorous of the Audit Committee, the Investment Manager and evaluation of its performance on an annual basis.
Such an Ernst & Young LLP with regards to the audit approach evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, and identified risks.
The Audit Committee is chaired 4 the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, by Mr Hayden and comprised of Mr Barker and the Management Engagement Committee, individual Mr Firth.
The report of the activities is contained in Directors and the Chairman will be carried out under the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 24 to 26. the mandate of the Nomination Committee.
The The Committee has terms of reference which are available Company believes that the current mix of skills, on the Companys website www.
experience and ages of the Directors is appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
With any new Nomination Committee director appointment to the Board, induction training On 28 May 2013, the Board established a Nomination will be provided by an independent service provider Committee which held its first meeting on 12 February at the expense of the Company.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Sir Due to the recent commencement of operations Robert Wilson and comprised of Mr Barker and Mr Firth.
of the Company, no formal Board evaluation has been The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year carried out as at the date of this report.
A formal Board pursuant to its terms of reference which are available evaluation will be completed during 2014 with the on the Companys website www.
format to be determined by the Board in due course.
The Nomination Committee is convened for the purpose of considering the appointment of additional Management Engagement Committee Directors as and when considered appropriate.
In On 28 May 2013, the Board established a Management considering appointments to the Board, the Nomination Engagement Committee which held its first meeting Committee takes into account the ongoing requirements on 12 February 2014.
The Management Engagement of the Company and the need to have a balance of skills Committee is chaired by Sir Robert Wilson and and experience within the Board.
The Board believes that, comprised of Mr Barker and Mr Firth.
The Management as a whole, it comprises an appropriate balance of skills, Engagement Committee meets at least once a year experience and knowledge.
The Board also believes that pursuant to its terms of reference which are available on diversity of experience and approach, including gender the Companys website www.
diversity, amongst Board members is of great importance 1 Non-executive Independent Director.
2 Mr Barker was appointed at the second Board meeting on 20 September 2013.
3 The initial meetings for these committees were held on 12 February 2014.
4 Senior Independent Director.. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Management Engagement Committee provides The systems of control referred to above are designed a formal mechanism for the review of the performance to ensure effectiveness and efficient operation, internal of the Investment Manager and the Companys other control and compliance with laws and regulations.
In advisors and service providers.
It carries out this review establishing the systems of internal control, regard is paid through consideration of a number of objective and to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of costs subjective criteria and through a review of the terms and being incurred and costs of control.
It follows therefore conditions of the advisors appointments with the aim of that the systems of internal control can only provide evaluating performance, identifying any weaknesses and reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk ensuring value for money for the Companys shareholders.
of material misstatement or loss.
Internal Control and Financial Investment Management Agreement Reporting The Investment Manager has been appointed as the sole investment manager of the Company and the Partnership.
The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for Pursuant to the Investment Management Agreement, establishing and maintaining the Companys system of the Investment Manager will have responsibility for and internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal discretion over investing and managing the Companys control systems are designed to manage rather than and the Partnerships direct and indirect assets, subject to eliminate the failure to achieve business objectives and and in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance The Investment Manager is entitled to delegate all or against material misstatements or loss.
The Directors part of its functions under the Investment Management review all controls including operations, compliance and Agreement to one or more if its affiliates.
The key procedures which have been The Company has delegated the provision of all services established to provide internal control are that: to external service providers whose work is overseen by the Board has delegated the day to day operations of the Management Engagement Committee at its regular the Company to the Administrator and Investment scheduled meetings.
Each year a detailed review of Manager: however, it retains accountability for all performance pursuant to their terms of engagement is functions it delegates: undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee.
the Board clearly defines the duties and responsibilities In accordance with Listing Rule 15.6.
2 2 R and of the Companys agents and advisors and appointments having formally appraised the performance and resources are made by the Board after due and careful of the Investment Manager, in the opinion of the consideration.
The Board monitors the ongoing Directors their continuing appointment of the Investment performance of such agents and advisors and will Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of the continue to do so through the Management shareholders as a whole.
Engagement Committee: the Board monitors the actions of the Investment Manager at regular Board meetings and is given Dealings with Shareholders frequent updates on developments arising from the operations and strategic direction of the underlying The Board welcomes shareholders views and places investee companies: great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Companys AGM provides a forum for shareholders the Administrator provides administration and to meet and discuss issues with the Directors of the company secretarial services to the Company.
The Chairman and other directors are also Administrator maintains a system of internal control available to meet with shareholders at other times, on which they report to the Board: and if required.
In addition, the Company maintains a the Board has reviewed the need for an internal website www.
com which contains audit function and has decided that the systems and comprehensive information, including company procedures employed by the Administrator and notifications, share information, financial reports, Investment Manager, including their own internal investment objectives and policy, investor contacts and controls and procedures, provide sufficient assurance information on the Board and corporate governance.
that a sound system of risk management and internal The Investment Manager has regular contact with control, which safeguards shareholders investment Shareholders, in particular Cornerstone Investors, and and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal any views that they may have are communicated to the audit function specific to the Company is therefore Board and vice versa.
No sensitive information is considered unnecessary.
provided to the Cornerstone Investors that is not provided to the Shareholders as a whole and at the same time.
Investments in the exploration and production and Principal Risks and Uncertainties midstream sectors of the global energy sector involve a degree of inherent risk.
The Companys assets consist of investments, through the Partnership, within the global energy sector, with a The regulatory and tax environment of the particular focus on opportunities in the global exploration Companys target investments is potentially and production and midstream energy sub-sectors.
Its subject to change, which may adversely affect principal risks are therefore related to market conditions the value or liquidity of investments held by the in the energy sector in general, but also the particular Company or its ability to obtain leverage.
circumstance of the businesses in which it is invested The Company will be exposed to increased risk through the Partnership.
The Investment Manager to the by investing in build-up and early-stage investments Partnership seeks to mitigate these risks through active that have little or no operating history and are asset management initiatives and carrying out due comparably more vulnerable to financial failure diligence work on potential targets before entering into than more established companies.
should be aware there can be no assurance that Each Director is aware of the risks inherent in the losses generated by these types of entities will be Companys business and understands the importance of offset by gains if any realised on the Companys identifying, evaluating and monitoring these risks.
Board has adopted procedures and controls that enable An investments requirements for additional it to manage these risks within acceptable limits and to capital may require the Company to invest more meet all of its legal and regulatory obligations.
capital than it had originally planned or result in The Board considers the process for identifying, the dilution of the Companys investment or a evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by decrease in the value of that investment.
the Company on an on-going basis and these risks are These inherent risks associated with investments in reported and discussed at Board meetings.
It ensures that the global energy sector could result in a material effective controls are in place to mitigate these risks and adverse effect on the Companys performance and that a satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure all the value of Ordinary Shares.
applicable local and international laws and regulations are upheld.
The above risks are mitigated and managed by the Board through continual review, policy setting and annual The Companys financial instrument risks are discussed review of the Companys risk matrix to ensure that in Note 15 to the financial statements.
procedures will be in place with the intention of The Companys principal risk factors are fully minimising the impact of the above mentioned risks.
discussed in the Companys prospectus, available on the Given the recent commencement of the Companys Companys website www.
com and operations and low number of investments made as at the should be reviewed by shareholders.
date of the statement of financial position the Board carried out its first review of the risk matrix at the Board The key areas of risk faced by the Company are meeting held on 13 February 2014.
The Board relies on summarised below: periodic reports provided by the Investment Manager 1.
The Company intends to only invest in the global and Administrator regarding risks that the Company energy sector, with a particular focus on oil and faces.
When required, experts will be employed to gather gas exploration and production, and midstream information, including tax advisors, legal advisors, and investments, which will expose it to concentration risk.
The Ordinary Shares may trade at a discount to By order of the Board NAV per Share for reasons including but not limited to: market conditions, liquidity concerns and actual or expected Company performance.
As such no guarantee that attempts to mitigate such discount will be successful or that the use of discount control mechanisms will be possible, advisable or adopted by Sir Robert Wilson the Company.
