REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE On 28 May 2013, the Board established an audit reviewing the valuation of the Companys investments committee which held its first meeting on 12 February prepared by the Investment Manager, and making a 2014.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Hayden, recommendation to the Board on the valuation of operates within clearly defined terms of reference which the Companys investments: are available from the Companys website and include meeting the external auditor to review their proposed all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency audit programme of work and the subsequent audit Rule 7.1, the AIC Code and the Corporate Governance report and assess the effectiveness of the audit process Code.
Its other members are Mr Barker and Mr Firth.
and the levels of fees paid in respect of both audit and Only independent Directors can serve on the Audit non-audit work: Committee, not including the Chairman of the Company, who may, however, be invited to attend.
making recommendations to the Board in relation to Members of the Audit Committee must have no links the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the with the Companys external auditor and must be external auditors and approving their remuneration independent of the Investment Manager.
Appointments and the terms of their engagement: to the Committee shall be for a period of up to three monitoring and reviewing annually the external years, extendable for two further three-year periods.
auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, The Audit Committee will meet no less than three resources and qualification: times in a year, and at such other times as the Audit Committee chairman shall require, and will meet the considering annually whether there is a need for the external auditor at least once a year.
Company to have its own internal audit function: The Board has taken note of the requirement that at monitoring the internal financial control and risk least one member of the Audit Committee should have management systems on which the Company is reliant: recent and relevant financial experience and is satisfied and that the Audit Committee is properly constituted in that reviewing and considering the Corporate Governance respect, with all members being highly experienced and Code, the AIC Code, the AIC Guidance on Audit in particular, one member having a background as a Committees and the Stewardship Code.
In addition, the Audit Committee advises the Board on The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual Report as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide and Financial Statements and Interim Financial Report, the information necessary for shareholders to assess the the valuation of the Companys investment portfolio, the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
system of internal controls, and the terms of appointment of the auditor together with its remuneration.
It is also The Audit Committee is aware that several sections the formal forum through which the auditor reports to of the Annual Report are not subject to formal statutory the Board.
The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed audit, including the Chairmans Statement and the by the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms Investment Managers Report.
Financial information under which the external auditor is appointed to perform in these sections is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
non-audit services and the fees paid to them or their The Audit Committee is required to report its affiliated firms overseas.
findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which The Audit Committee will review, consider and, if it considers that action or improvement is needed, and thought appropriate, recommend for the purposes of the make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
Companys financial statements, valuations prepared by The external auditor is invited to attend the Audit the Investment Manager in respect of the investments Committee meetings at which the Annual and Interim of the Partnership.
Financial Statements are considered and at which they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without representatives of the Investment Manager being Responsibilities present at least once per year.
The main duties of the Audit Committee are: monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements Financial Reporting of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to reviewing significant financial reporting judgements the financial reporting is to review with the Administrator, contained in them: Investment Manager and the auditor of the appropriateness of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Interim reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Financial Report, concentrating on, amongst other matters: Companys accounting policies and practices: the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with the commitments made to date, through the financial reporting standards and relevant financial Partnership, have been in concert with Other and governance reporting requirements: Riverstone Funds: material areas in which significant judgements have the Directors may be unaware of the existence of been applied or there has been discussion with the all related-party relationships and transactions: auditor: the Administrator's information systems may not whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, identify transactions or outstanding balances with taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable related parties, especially for transactions conducted at and provides the information necessary for shareholders nil value, or outside the normal course of business: and to assess the Companys performance, business model related-party transactions may not be conducted and strategy: and under normal terms and conditions.
any correspondence from regulators in relation to our The risk is mitigated through the production and regular financial reporting.
review of a register, detailing the names, relationships and To aid its review, the Audit Committee considers reports transactions of all entities and individuals thought to be from the Administrator and Investment Manager and related parties of the Company.
also reports from the auditor on the outcomes of their The Audit Committee determined that the key risk of half-year review and annual audit.
The Audit Committee misstatement of the Companys Financial Statements in supports Ernst and Young LLP in displaying the necessary future periods will relate to the valuation of the investment professional scepticism their role requires.
in the Partnership at fair value through profit or loss, in the context of the judgements necessary to evaluate market values of the Investment Undertakings of the Partnership.
Meetings At 31 December 2013, however, the value of the Due to the Company effectively being in operation for Partnerships investments represented only a small less than three months up to 31 December 2013, the amount of the net asset value of the Partnership, which Audit Committee did not meet formally during the is primarily made up of cash and U. S. treasury bills.
This period, however, there has been ongoing liaison and significantly reduces the relative level of risk associated discussion between the auditors and the chair of the with the valuation of the Companys investment in the Audit Committee with regards to the audit approach and Partnership in these Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee has met on one occasion since the period end through to the date of The Directors have considered whether any discount this report.
The matters discussed at those meetings were: or premium should be applied to the net asset value of the Partnership.
In view of the Companys recent review and approval of the audit plan of the external investment in the Partnership and the nature of the auditors: Partnerships assets, no adjustment to the net asset value discussion and approval of the fee for the external audit: of the Partnership has been made.
detailed review of the Annual Report and Financial As outlined in Note 6 to the Financial Statements, the Statements and recommendation for approval by total carrying value of the investment in the Partnership the Board: at fair value through profit or loss at 31 December 2013 was $1,130 million.
Market quotations are not available assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit for this financial asset such that the value of the Companys process as described below: and investment is based on the value of the Companys limited review of the Companys key risks and internal controls.
partner capital account with the Partnership, which itself is based on the value of the Partnerships investments as determined by the Investment Manager, along with the Primary Area of Judgement cash and U. S. treasury bills held.
The Audit Committee has determined that the key risk The valuation process and methodology was discussed of misstatement of the Companys Financial Statements is with the Investment Manager and with the auditor at an the failure to identify and adequately disclose all related Audit Committee meeting held on 12 February 2014.
Investment Manager will carry out a valuation quarterly and provide a detailed valuation report to the Company.
The factors that increase the risk of misstatement are as follows: The Audit Committee reviewed the Investment Managers report.
The Investment Manager confirmed operating through a complex range of relationships to the Audit Committee that the auditors work had not and structures, increasing the complexity of related identified any errors or inconsistencies that were material party transactions: in the context of the Annual Report and Financial Statements as a whole.. REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The auditor explained the results of their review of the external auditor does not conflict with its statutory the valuations, including their challenge of managements audit responsibilities.
Advisory and or consulting services valuation of the Investment Undertakings at cost.
On the will generally only cover reviews of interim financial basis of their audit work, there were no adjustments statements, tax compliance and capital raising work.
Any proposed that were material in the context of the Annual non-audit services conducted by the auditor outside of Report and Financial Statements as a whole.
these areas will require the consent of the Audit Committee before being initiated.
The external auditor may not undertake any work Risk Management for the Company in respect of the following matters preparation of the financial statements, preparation of The Companys risk assessment process and the way in valuations used in financial statements, provision of which significant business risks are managed is a key area investment advice, taking management decisions or of focus for the Audit Committee.
The work of the Audit advocacy work in adversarial situations.
Committee was driven primarily by the Companys The Committee reviews the scope and results of the assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties as set audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and out on page 23 of the Corporate Governance Report.
objectivity of the auditor, with particular regard to the The Audit Committee receives reports from the level of non-audit fees.
Notwithstanding such services Investment Manager and Administrator on the Companys the Audit Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to risk evaluation process and reviews changes to significant be independent of the Company and that the provision risks identified.
of such non-audit services is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
Internal Audit To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Committee will consider: The Audit Committee shall consider at least once a year discussions with or reports from the external auditor whether or not there is a need for an internal audit describing its arrangements to identify, report and function.
Currently, the Audit Committee does not manage any conflicts of interest: and consider there to be a need for an internal audit function, given that there are no employees in the Company and the extent of non-audit services provided by the all outsourced functions are with parties who have their external auditor.
own internal controls and procedures.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the committee will review: External Audit the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from it: Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys external discussions or reports highlighting the major issues auditor since the Companys incorporation.
This is the that arose during the course of the audit: and first period of audit.
feedback from other service providers evaluating the The auditors are required to rotate the audit partner performance of the audit team.
The current partner is in his first year of tenure.
There are no contractual obligations restricting The Audit Committee is satisfied with Ernst & Young the choice of external auditor and the Company will put LLPs effectiveness and independence as auditor having the audit services contract out to tender at least every considered the degree of diligence and professional ten years.
In line with the FRCs suggestions on audit scepticism demonstrated by them.
Having carried out the tendering, this will be considered further when the audit review described above and having satisfied itself that the partner rotates every five years.
Under Companies Law external auditor remains independent and effective, the the reappointment of the external auditors is subject to Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditor for the year ending 31 December 2014.
The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under On behalf of the Audit Committee which the external auditor may be appointed to perform non-audit services.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditor, with particular regard to any non-audit work that the auditor may undertake.
In order to safeguard auditor independence Richard Hayden and objectivity, the Audit Committee ensures that any Chairman of the Audit Committee other advisory and or consulting services provided by 13 February 2014
