Governance report 36 Letter from the Chairman 38 Our governance structure 39 Our Board 43 Executive Committee 45 Corporate governance 50 Report of the Group Nominations Committee 52 Report of the Group Audit Committee 58 Report of the Board Risk Committee 64 Report of the Group Sustainability Committee 66 Directors Remuneration Report 87 Other Remuneration Disclosures 91 Compliance report 93 Report of the directors 99 Statement of directors responsibilities 35 Letter from the Chairman The Board Risk Committee has continued to oversee the remediation activity following the major IT incident in 2012 and is also providing oversight of the investigations underway in response to various allegations made by Mr Tomlinson, customer and adviser to the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills.
With the launch of our new values and programme of cultural change, the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee has played a vital role in ensuring that our remuneration policy supports the desired behaviours.
Remuneration decisions are considered in the context of performance on a range of issues, including customer service, and reward behaviours Dear Shareholder, and outcomes that are aligned with our values.
I am pleased to introduce our Corporate governance report, which sets The Group Sustainability Committee has provided oversight of the out in some detail how our Board and committees have risen to the introduction and embedding of our new values, including the launch of a challenges of another demanding year.
new code of conduct for our people, and continued its innovative programme aimed at understanding and engaging more effectively with Board and committee activity increased significantly in 2013, with a key stakeholders.
number of key strategic issues taking centre stage.
In late 2013, the Board agreed a number of actions to accelerate the building of our capital Finally, we have established a new committee to provide board level strength and enhance our strategic focus on our core UK businesses and oversight of RCR.
This included the outcomes of the Good Bank Bad Bank review and the subsequent creation of RBS Capital Board changes Resolution RCR.
We also launched a full review of our businesses, There were a number of changes to the Boards composition during focused on the needs of our customers, improving our operations and IT 2013.
Stephen Hester stepped down as Group Chief Executive having systems, and simplifying our organisational and decision-making served for over five years on the Board.
Over the last five years, we have made substantial progress in stabilising the Group during a particularly turbulent period in its history restoring our safety and soundness.
Building on that important work, the were considerable, and the Board is immensely grateful for Stephens Board felt the timing was right for this review in order to target our future outstanding leadership and dedication throughout his tenure.
Following efforts firmly on how we can best serve the needs of our customers, an extensive internal and external search, Stephen was succeeded by shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Ross McEwan on 1 October 2013 and Ross now has his sights firmly set on building a bank focused on our customers and shareholders.
Also on Conduct and culture have been key areas of focus throughout the year 1 October 2013, Bruce Van Saun took up his new role as Chairman and and our 2013 results reflect the impact that conduct related matters Chief Executive of RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc and has stepped continue to have on financial and operating performance.
The Board fully down from the Board.
Bruces contribution was, again, outstanding.
He supports our new values, which were launched in 2013 and focus on has been succeeded as Group Finance Director by Nathan Bostock.
serving customers, working together, doing the right thing and thinking Nathan has since confirmed his resignation although his leaving date has long term.
It is vital that the Board continues to set the tone from the top not yet been agreed and the search for his replacement is underway.
to drive essential cultural change and that our governance framework continues to evolve to support this and our key strategic changes.
These Two of our non-executive directors also retired from the Board in 2013. will be key priorities for the Board and its committees in 2014.
Joe MacHale stood down in May, having served on the Board for nearly nine years.
Joe made a substantial contribution to the Board and the Board committees committees he served on, providing valuable continuity throughout a Board committees continued to play a crucial role in our governance challenging period, and on behalf of the Board I would like to express our framework during 2013, undertaking their complex work comprehensively sincere thanks for his hard work and commitment.
Art Ryan also retired in and effectively supporting the work of the Board.
September after more than five years on the Board.
The knowledge, wisdom and experience Art brought to the Board and the Group The Group Audit Committee has monitored progress on various Performance and Remuneration Committee in particular, were greatly regulatory investigations and has overseen the remediation of culture and appreciated.
Art remains on the board of RBS Citizens Financial Group, control issues in the Markets division.
The Group Audit Committee has Inc. also supported the Board in making its assessment that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, in accordance with new provisions in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
36 Letter from the Chairman In December 2013 we welcomed Robert Gillespie as a new nonBoard effectiveness executive director and I am delighted to say that the Board is already This year, we conducted an internal evaluation of the effectiveness of the benefitting from Roberts skills and experience.
We are also announcing Board and its committees, led by the Group Secretary.
The evaluation alongside our 2013 results some further Board and committee changes to has concluded that the Board is operating effectively but has identified ensure that we will continue to have an appropriate balance of skills, some areas for improvement which we will focus on during 2014. experience, independence and knowledge.
Philip Scott will step down from the Board by 31 October 2014 and I would like to thank Philip for the The Board also received support from the Group Secretary in a number significant contribution he has made to the Board and the committees he of other areas related to board effectiveness such as Board process and has served on and especially for his strong leadership of the Board Risk information flows, continuing professional development and induction for Committee during a particularly challenging period for RBS.
Noakes will succeed Philip Scott as Chairman of the Board Risk Committee with effect from 1 April 2014.
Following the 2014 Annual Corporate governance General Meeting, Penny Hughes will become Chair of the Group This is the first year that we are required to report under the new Sustainability Committee replacing Sandy Crombie and Sandy will narrative reporting requirements, which include the new Strategic report become Chairman of the Group Performance and Remuneration and changes in remuneration reporting.
Our statement of compliance with Committee.
I would like to thank both Penny and Sandy for their the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is set out on page 91. outstanding commitment and dedication whilst chairing the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee and Group Sustainability Finally, as we reflect on another challenging year, I would like to conclude Committee respectively this letter by recording my sincere thanks towards my fellow Board members.
Being a director of RBS requires extensive time and commitment, and the readiness to deal with the unusual challenges of a government controlled listed company.
I remain extremely grateful for their continued support and dedication in working towards the recovery of RBS.
Philip Hampton Chairman of the Board of directors 26 February 2014 37 Our governance structure RBS Capital Resolution Board Oversight Committee Group Board Group Nominations Committee The main decision making forum at Group level, setting the strategic Assists the Board in the selection and appointment of directors.
It reviews direction of the Group and ensuring that the Group manages risk the structure, size and composition of the Board, and membership and effectively.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for financial and chairmanship of Board committees.
Group Sustainability Committee Group Audit Committee Responsible for overseeing and challenging how management is Assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities for monitoring the addressing sustainability and reputation issues relating to all stakeholder integrity of the financial statements of the Group.
It reviews the groups, except where such issues have already been dealt with by other accounting policies, financial reporting and regulatory compliance Board committees.
practices of the Group and the Groups system and standards of internal controls, and monitors the Groups processes for internal audit and Executive Committee external audit.
Supports the Group Chief Executive in managing the Groups businesses.
It reviews strategic issues and initiatives, monitors financial Board Risk Committee performance and capital allocations and considers risk strategy, policy Provides oversight and advice to the Board on current and potential and risk management.
future risk exposures of the Group and future risk strategy.
It reviews the Groups compliance with approved risk appetite and oversees the RBS Capital Resolution Board Oversight Committee operation of the Group Policy Framework.
Provides oversight of RCRs progress against, and compliance with, its primary objective and asset management principles.
It reports to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Board on its own activities and recommends changes, where appropriate, Responsible for overseeing performance and the Groups policy on to RCR strategy.
It also considers senior executive remuneration and makes recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of executive directors.
38 Our Board Chairman Philip Hampton age 60 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 19 January 2009 Board Non-executive director, chairman of the 3 February 2009 Chairman remuneration committee and member of the audit committee of Anglo American plc Experience: Previously chairman of J Sainsbury plc and and senior independent director with effect group finance director at Lloyds TSB Group, BT Group from April 2014. plc, BG Group plc, British Gas and British Steel plc, an executive director of Lazards and a non-executive Committee membership s director of RMC Group plc and Belgacom SA.
He is also Group Nominations Committee Chair a former chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, RCR Board Oversight Committee which manages the UK Governments shareholdings in banks.
Executive directors Group Chief Executive Ross McEwan age 56 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 October 2013 None Experience: Has more than 25 years experience in the Committee membership s finance, insurance and investment industries.
He joined Executive Committee RBS in August 2012 as Chief Executive Officer for UK Retail, having previously been Group Executive for Retail Banking Services and Executive General Manager responsible for the branch network, contact centres and third party mortgage brokers at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Managing Director of stockbroking business First NZ Capital Securities, and Chief Executive of National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Ltd AXA New Zealand Ltd. Group Finance Director Nathan Bostock age 53 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 October 2013.
None Nathan Bostock has since confirmed his resignation although his leaving date is still to be agreed.
Committee membership s Executive Committee Experience: Joined RBS in 2009 as Head of Restructuring and Risk and Group Chief Risk Officer.
Prior to this, he spent eight years with Abbey National plc now Santander UK, latterly as Chief Financial Officer, ten years with RBS in a number of roles, including Chief Operating Officer of Treasury and Capital Markets and Group Risk Director and seven years with Chase Manhattan Bank in a variety of areas and functions.
He is a chartered accountant and holds a BSc Hons in Mathematics.
39 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Sandy Crombie age 65 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 June 2009 Chairman of Creative Scotland Member and vice-chairman of the Board of Experience: Previously group chief executive of Governors of The Royal Conservatoire of Standard Life plc.
He was also previously a director of Scotland the Association of British Insurers, a member of the President of the Cockburn Association former Chancellor of the Exchequers High Level Group on Financial Services and Chairman of the Edinburgh Committee membership s : World City of Literature Trust.
In 2007 he was the Prince Group Sustainability Committee Chair of Wales Ambassador for Corporate Social Board Risk Committee Responsibility in Scotland.
Group Nominations Committee Group Performance and Remuneration Committee RCR Board Oversight Committee Alison Davis age 52 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 Managing partner of Fifth Era Financial LLC Experience: Managing partner of Fifth Era, an Non-executive director and member of the investment firm focussed on early stage technology finance and compensation committees of investments.
Previously, she served as a director of City Unisys Corporation National Bank and First Data Corporation and as chair of Non-executive director, chair of the the board of LECG Corporation.
She has also worked at compensation committee and member of McKinsey & Company, AT Kearney, as Chief Financial the audit committee of Diamond Foods Inc.
Officer at Barclays Global Investors now BlackRock Non-executive director, and chair of the and managing partner of Belvedere Capital, a private audit committee of Xoom Corporation equity firm focused on buy-outs in the financial services Non-executive director and chair of the sector.
audit committee at Gamefly, Inc Director of the Governing Board of Womens Initiative for Self Employment Committee membership s : Group Nominations Committee Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Group Sustainability Committee Tony Di Iorio age 70 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 September 2011 None Experience: Began his career at Peat Marwick now Committee membership s : KPMG where he worked in the firms Financial Board Risk Committee Institutions Practice in New York and Chicago.
After Group Audit Committee leaving Peat Marwick he worked for several leading Group Nominations Committee financial institutions, including as Co-controller of Goldman Sachs, Chief Financial Officer of the Capital Markets business of NationsBank now Bank of America, Executive Vice President of Paine Webber and CEO of Paine Webber International.
He joined Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt in 2001 and later became the Banks Chief Financial Officer and a member of its Board and Group Executive Committee.
After retiring in 2008 he served as senior adviser to Ernst & Young working with the firms financial services partners in the UK, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
He is a non-executive director of RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc. 40 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Robert Gillespie age 58 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 2 December 2013 Independent Board Director at Ashurst LLP Experience: Began his career with Price Waterhouse Chairman of Council at the University of now  where he qualified as a Durham chartered accountant.
He then moved into banking Chairman of the Somerset House Trust joining SG Warburg, specialising in corporate finance, Chairman of the Boat Race Company and was appointed as Co-Head and Managing Director Limited of its US investment banking business in 1989.
Following Director of Social Finance Limited the acquisition of Warburg by UBS in 1995, he then held the roles of Head of UK Corporate Finance, Head of Committee membership s : European Corporate Finance and Co-Head of its global Group Nominations Committee business and CEO of the EMEA region.
He relinquished his management roles at the end of 2005, and was appointed Vice Chairman of UBS Investment Bank.
Robert left UBS to join Evercore Partners, from where he was seconded to the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, as Director General, from 2010 to 2013.
Penny Hughes, CBE age 54 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 January 2010 Non-executive director, chair of the corporate compliance and responsibility Experience: Previously a director and chairman of the committee and member of the audit, Remuneration Committee of Skandinaviska Enskilda nomination and remuneration committees Banken AB and a non-executive director of Home Retail of Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc Group plc and chairman of its Remuneration Committee.
Trustee of the British Museum She spent the majority of her executive career at CocaCola where she held a number of leadership positions, Committee membership s : latterly as President, Coca-Cola Great Britain and Group Performance and Remuneration Ireland.
Former non-executive directorships include Committee Chair Vodafone Group plc, Reuters Group PLC, Cable & Group Nominations Committee Wireless Worldwide plc and The Gap Inc. Group Sustainability Committee Brendan Nelson age 64 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 April 2010 Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of BP plc Experience: Former global chairman, financial services Member of the Financial Reporting Review for KPMG.
Previously held senior leadership roles within Panel KPMG including as a member of the KPMG UK board President of the Institute of Chartered from 1999 to 2006 and as vice-chairman from 2006.
Accountants of Scotland Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland from 2005 to 2008.
Committee membership s : Group Audit Committee Chair Board Risk Committee Group Nominations Committee RCR Board Oversight Committee 41 Our Board Independent non-executive directors Baroness Noakes, DBE age 64 External appointment s : Non-executive director and chairman of Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 the audit committee of Severn Trent plc Experience: An experienced director on UK listed Deputy chairman and senior independent company boards with extensive and varied political and director and chairman of the nominations public sector experience.
A qualified chartered committee of Carpetright plc accountant, she previously headed KPMGs European and International Government practices and has been Committee membership s : President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Board Risk Committee England and Wales.
She was appointed to the House of Group Audit Committee Lords in 2000 and has served on the Conservative front Group Nominations Committee bench in various roles including as shadow treasury minister between 2003 and May 2010.
Previously held non-executive roles on the Court of the Bank of England, Hanson, ICI, John Laing and SThree.
Philip Scott age 60 External appointment s : Date of appointment: 1 November 2009 Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Diageo plc Experience: Wide-ranging experience of financial services and risk management, including previous Committee membership s : responsibility for Avivas continental European and Board Risk Committee Chair International life and long-term savings businesses.
He RCR Board Oversight Committee Chair held a number of senior executive positions during his Group Audit Committee career at Aviva including his role as group finance Group Nominations Committee director until January 2010.
Fellow of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and Fellow of the Association of Certified Public Accountants.
Group Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance Aileen Taylor age 41 Date of appointment: 1 May 2010 Experience: A qualified solicitor, joined RBS in 2000.
She is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of She was appointed Deputy Group Secretary and Head of Bankers in Scotland and a member of the Group Secretariat in 2007, and prior to that held various European Corporate Governance Council.
legal, secretariat and risk roles including Head of External Risk, Retail, Head of Regulatory Risk, Retail Direct and Head of Legal and Compliance at Direct Line Financial Services.
42 Executive Committee Simon McNamara age 54 Ross McEwan, Group Chief Executive Group Chief Administrative Officer Nathan Bostock, Group Finance Director Simon McNamara was appointed Group Chief Administrative Officer in For biographies see page 39 September 2013.
Prior to joining the Group, Simon was Chief Information Rory Cullinan age 54 Officer of Standard Chartereds Consumer Bank based in Singapore and Chief Executive, RBS Capital Resolution Group has previously held a number of senior Information Technology and Rory Cullinan became CEO of the RBS Capital Resolution Group CRG Operations positions in the global financial services industry including on 1 January 2014.
CRG was set up to deliver, transform, optimise or exit with Westpac Banking Corporation, Deutsche Bank, BNP Paribas and the businesses and assets which will be the primary driver of the RBS Midland Bank.
He was also a founding partner in a successful software capital build.
CRG includes RBS Capital Resolution RCR and the start-up company, CATS INC, in Silicon Valley.
Simon holds a Bachelor divestments of both RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc and Williams & of Science Hons in Economics and Statistics from University College Glyn.
He previously served as CEO of the Groups Non-Core Division Swansea and a Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Science from the and also led the negotiation and establishment of RBSs entry into the UK University of Hertfordshire.
He has also completed the Executive Governments Asset Protection Scheme.
Rory previously worked at RBS Programme at Stanford University.
as Head of Equity Finance 2002-2005.
Before rejoining RBS he was Co-Managing Partner and Group Board Member at Renaissance Group.
Jon Pain age 56 Prior to 2002, he worked for a variety of banks and active financial Group Head of Conduct & Regulatory Affairs investment companies in the Americas, Africa and Europe including Jon Pain joined the Group on 15 August 2013 as Head of Conduct & Permira Advisors, Verdoso Investments a company he co-founded, Regulatory affairs, from KPMG where he was a partner and Head of the Pembridge Investments and Citibank.
Financial Services Risk Consultancy practice.
Jon has over 30 years experience in Financial Services including three years as Managing Suneel Kamlani age 52 Director of Supervision at the Financial Services Authority FSA during CoChief Executive, Markets the financial crisis 2008 - 2011.
Prior to the FSA, Jons executive career Suneel Kamlani joined the Group in 2010 and is currently Co-Chief was with the Lloyds Banking Group LBG where he held a range of Executive Officer of Markets with responsibility for global trading, sales, senior roles including Managing Director of LBGs C&G mortgage research and origination across interest rate products, foreign exchange, business, the General Insurance Business and the Private Banking asset backed securities, emerging markets, credit fixed income and debt Business.
In this capacity, he oversees businesses which provide financing, risk management and advisory services to major corporations, David Stephen age 49 financial institutions and public sector clients around the world.
Based in Group Chief Risk Officer the Groups offices in Stamford, Connecticut, Suneel also serves in a David Stephen joined RBS in July 2010 as Deputy Group Chief Risk regional capacity as Chairman of Markets and International Banking, Officer, and became Group Chief Risk Officer on 1 October 2013.
He is Americas and Deputy Head of RBS Americas.
Suneel has over 30 years responsible for risk globally across all divisions including credit risk, of experience in investment banking, having previously served as Chief market risk and operational risk functions and enterprise risk Operating Officer for UBSs Investment Bank and as a member of the management.
Spanning a 28 year career in the finance industry across UBS Group managing board.
He has worked in New York, London, Hong London, New York, Hong Kong and Melbourne, he has worked for both Kong and Stamford, leading investment banking and capital markets full service and investment banks.
These included Credit Suisse Financial businesses globally.
Products where he was Chief Credit Officer and ANZ Bank where he was Group Chief Risk Officer and was a member of ANZ Bank's Management Les Matheson age 54 Board.
David is a graduate of Melbourne's Monash University.
Chief Executive, UK Retail Les Matheson was appointed Chief Executive of UK Retail on 11 February 2014.
He joined RBS in January 2010 as Managing Director of Products, assumed additional responsibility for Marketing in October 2011 and then served as interim Chief Executive for UK Retail before assuming the role on a permanent basis.
Prior to joining RBS, Les was Group Executive Retail for St George Bank part of the Westpac Group of companies and before that was with Citigroup for eleven years, where he was CEO Citibank Australia, Citigroup Country Officer for Australia and a member of the Citigroup Global Management Committee.
Prior to Citigroup Les worked for a number of consumer marketing companies.
He began his career with Procter & Gamble in Brand Management in the UK.
Les is a member of the Board of Visa Europe and is a member of the Edinburgh University Court.
43 Executive Committee Chris Sullivan age 56 Bruce Van Saun age 56 Chief Executive, Corporate Banking Chairman & Chief Executive, RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and Chris Sullivan was appointed Chief Executive of the Corporate Banking Head of RBS Americas Division in August 2009 and also has responsibility for Ulster Bank Bruce Van Saun was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Group.
Chris previous role was as Chief Executive of RBS Insurance.
RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and Head of RBS Americas in Prior to this, Chris was Chief Executive of Retail and Deputy Chief October 2013.
Prior to taking up his current role, Bruce was Group Executive of Retail Markets.
Chris is the Group sponsor for Gender Finance Director and a director of the Company, RBS and NatWest Diversity and the Groups internal Womens Networks and was having been appointed to those positions in 2009.
Bruce has more than recognised as the European Diversity Champion of the Year in 2011.
He 30 years of financial services experience and has previously held senior is an active sponsor of professional and leadership development and is a positions with Bank of New York, Bank of New York Mellon, Deutsche member of the Chartered Banker Professional Standards Board and Bank, Wasserstein Perella Group and Kidder Peabody & Co. Bruce is Governor of Ashridge College.
Chris holds a number of positions outside currently a Director of Lloyds of London and is a member of the Financial the Group including Chairman of the Global Banking Alliance for women Services Roundtable and The Clearing House supervisory board and is and is a member of the Westminster Abbey Investment Committee.
Chris active in several community organisations.
earned his Fellowship of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland for his services to Scottish Banking.
These are the biographies of Executive Committee members as at the date of the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
44 Corporate governance The Board The Boards terms of reference include key aspects of the companys The Board has eleven directors comprising the Chairman, two executive affairs reserved for the Boards decision and are reviewed at least directors and eight independent non-executive directors, one of whom is annually.
The terms of reference are available on rbs.
Chairman Name Position Nationality The role of Chairman is distinct and separate from that of the Group Chief Philip Hampton Chairman British Executive and there is a clear division of responsibilities with the Ross McEwan Group Chief Executive New Zealand Chairman leading the Board and the Group Chief Executive managing Nathan Bostock Group Finance Director British the Groups businesses on a day to day basis.
Sandy Crombie Senior Independent Director British Alison Davis Independent non-executive director British USA The Chairmans key responsibilities are to: Tony Di Iorio Independent non-executive director USA provide strong and effective leadership to the Board: Robert Gillespie Independent non-executive director British Penny Hughes Independent non-executive director British ensure the Board is structured effectively and observes the highest Brendan Nelson Independent non-executive director British standards of integrity and corporate governance: Baroness Noakes Independent non-executive director British Philip Scott Independent non-executive director British manage the business of the Board and set the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to promote effective decision-making and Biographies for each director and details of which Board Committees they constructive debate: are members of can be found on pages 39 to 42.
The Board considers that the Chairman was independent on appointment and that all nonfacilitate the effective contribution and encourage active executive directors are independent for the purposes of the Code.
engagement by all members of the Board: Board Changes in conjunction with the Group Chief Executive and Group Secretary, Joe MacHale retired from the Board on 14 May 2013 and Stephen ensure that members of the Board receive accurate, timely and Hester, Art Ryan and Bruce Van Saun all retired from the Board on 30 clear information, to enable the Board to lead the Group, take sound September 2013.
Ross McEwan and Nathan Bostock were appointed to decisions and monitor effectively the performance of executive the Board on 1 October 2013 and Robert Gillespie was appointed to the management: Board on 2 December 2013.
Mr Bostock has since confirmed his resignation although his leaving date is still to be agreed.
ensure that the performance of individual directors and of the Board as a whole and its committees is evaluated regularly: and Roles and responsibilities The Board ensure the Group maintains effective communication with The Board is the main decision-making forum for the company.
It is shareholders and other stakeholders.
collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
Group Chief Executive The Group Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses The Board has overall responsibility for: and acts in accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
the establishment of Group strategy and consideration of strategic challenges: The Group Chief Executives key responsibilities are to: exercise executive responsibility for the Groups businesses: the management of the business and affairs of the Group: develop and implement strategy approved by the Board: ensuring the Group manages risk effectively through the approval and monitoring of the Groups risk appetite: act in accordance with authority delegated by the Board: considering stress scenarios and agreed mitigants and identifying consult regularly with the Chairman and Board on matters which longer term strategic threats to the Groups business operations: may have a material impact on the Group: the allocation and raising of capital: and lead the senior executive team and ensure there are clear accountabilities for managing the Groups business and managing the preparation and approval of the Groups annual report and risk: and accounts.
in conjunction with the Group Chairman and Group Secretary, ensure the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
45 Corporate governance Senior Independent Director Conflicts of interests Sandy Crombie, as Senior Independent Director, acts as a sounding The company has procedures in place to ensure that the Boards powers board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for other directors when for authorising actual or potential conflicts of interest are operating necessary.
He is also available to shareholders to discuss any concerns effectively.
On appointment, each director is provided with the Groups they may have, as appropriate.
guidelines for referring conflicts of interest to the Board.
Each director is required to notify any actual or potential conflicts of interest to the Board Non-executive directors for consideration and to update the Board on an ongoing basis when he Along with the Chairman and executive directors, the non-executive or she becomes aware of any changes.
directors are responsible for ensuring the Board fulfils its responsibilities under its terms of reference.
The non-executive directors combine broad The Board considers each directors notification separately on the facts business and commercial experience with independent and objective and can impose conditions or limitations as part of the authorisation judgement and they provide independent challenge to the executive process.
Actual and potential conflicts of interest can be authorised by directors and the leadership team.
The balance between non-executive the Board in accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
and executive directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective Details of all conflicts of interest are recorded in a register which is leadership across the Groups business activities.
maintained by the Group Secretary and reviewed annually by the Board.
The standard terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Board meetings directors are available on rbs.
com or from RBS Secretariat.
In 2013, nine Board meetings were scheduled and individual attendance by directors at these meetings is shown in the table below.
One of the Board Committees Board meetings took place overseas during the Boards visit to the In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board has Groups US businesses.
established a number of Board committees with particular responsibilities.
Please see the corporate governance framework on page 38 for more In addition to the nine scheduled meetings, 35 additional meetings of the details.
The work of the Board committees are also discussed in their Board and committees of the Board were held, including meetings to individual reports as follows consider and approve financial statements.
The Chairman and the nonexecutive directors meet at least once per year without executive Nominations Committee - pages 50 and 51. directors present.
Group Audit Committee - pages 52 to 57.
Attended Board Risk Committee - pages 58 to 63. scheduled Group Sustainability Committee - pages 64 and 65.
Philip Hampton 9 9 Group Performance and Remuneration Committee - pages 66 to 90.
Ross McEwan 1 2 2 Nathan Bostock 1 2 2 The terms of reference for each of these committees is available on Sandy Crombie 9 9 rbs.
com and copies are also available on request from RBS Secretariat.
Alison Davis 9 9 Tony Di Iorio 9 9 Group Secretary Robert Gillespie 2 1 1 Aileen Taylor is the Group Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance.
Penny Hughes 9 9 She is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters and Brendan Nelson 9 9 for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
In conjunction with the Baroness Noakes 9 9 Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, she is also responsible for Philip Scott 9 9 ensuring that the Board receive accurate, timely and clear information, particularly on the Groups performance and matters reserved to the Former directors Board: facilitating good information flows between Board members: Stephen Hester 3 7 7 leading on the implementation of the recommendations from the annual Joe MacHale 4 4 4 Board Evaluation and developing and maintaining the induction and Art Ryan 3 7 7 continuing professional development programme for directors.
A key Bruce Van Saun 3 7 7 element of the role is to ensure alignment between the Board and Notes: Executive Management to ensure the appropriate escalation of issues to 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013.
Nathan Bostock has since confirmed his resignation although his leaving date is still to be agreed.
Aileen also leads on all aspects of corporate governance 2 Appointed to the Board on 2 December 2013 across the Group.
3 Retired from the Board on 30 September 2013.
4 Retired from the Board on 14 May 2013.
46 Corporate governance Principal activities of the Board during 2013 Board effectiveness In advance of each Board meeting, the directors are supplied with Skills and experience on the Board comprehensive papers in hard copy and or electronic form.
During 2013 The Board is structured to ensure that the directors provide the Group there has been an enhanced focus on culture and values, conduct and with the appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge as well customers.
These have been recurring themes underpinning Board as independence.
Given the nature of the Groups businesses, discussions during the year and the Board received regular updates on experience of banking and financial services is clearly of benefit, and we the cultural change programme.
An overview of the principal activities of have a number of directors with substantial experience in that area, but the Board during 2013 is shown below.
the Board also benefits from directors with experience in other fields.
Each meeting The table below illustrates the breadth of experience on the Board.
Chairmans Report Risk Report including updates Group Chief Executives on conduct matters Retail Banking Government & Public Sector Report Reports from committee Chairs Risk Consulting Monthly Results Secretarys Report routine Finance & Accountancy Chief Executive Capital, Funding & Liquidity matters for approval noting Private Equity Technology Investment Banking Retailing 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter Insurance & Actuarial Utilities UK Retail Deep Dive Non-Core Deep Dive Manufacturing Budget Update AGM Preparations Markets Strategy Updates Q1 Results Remuneration Proposals Markets Strategy Updates Board committees also comprise directors with a variety of skills and Lending Updates Lending Updates experience so that no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
Risk Appetite Framework Recovery and Resolution Annual Results & AGM Notice Planning Induction and professional development Board and committee Board Session with the Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the Board, which Evaluations Financial Conduct Authority is co-ordinated by the Group Secretary.
This includes visits to the Group Internal Audit Good Bank Bad Bank Review Groups major divisions and meetings with directors and senior Evaluation Board Strategy Offsite management.
Each induction programme has a core element that the External Auditor Evaluation Succession Planning director is required to complete with the remainder of the programme tailored to the new directors specific requirements.
An example of an 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter induction programme for a new non-executive director is set out below: Good Bank Bad Bank Review Launch of Strategic Review Parliamentary Commission on Review of Capital Position Core meetings Tailored elements Banking Standards Independent Lending Review Group Chairman Divisional Chief Executives Recommendations Board Session with the Group Chief Executive Divisional visits UK and Interim Results Prudential Regulatory Authority Group Finance Director overseas Lending Updates Corporate Banking Deep Dive Senior Independent Director Group Finance Board Evaluation Update Q3 Results Board committee Chairs Group Risk RBS Citizens Deep Dive Markets Deep Dive Group Secretary Group Internal Audit Board Session with the Group Chief Risk Officer Group Tax Federal Bank of Boston Head of Conduct and Regulatory Affairs Investor Relations Group Treasurer Group Strategy Other senior executives, such as the Group Chief Risk Officer and the General Counsel Group Communications Head of Conduct and Regulatory Affairs, also attend Board meetings as External Auditor Institutional Investors required to present reports.
Divisional Chief Executives, accompanied External Counsel where appropriate by other senior executives from the division, attend Board meetings to present the divisional deep dives.
This provides the Ross McEwan and Nathan Bostock joined the Board on 1 October 2013.
Board with an opportunity to engage directly with divisional management Mr Bostock has since confirmed his resignation, although his leaving date on key issues and supports the Boards succession planning activity.
Robert Gillespie joined the Board on 2 December 2013.
Both Mr McEwan and Mr Bostock were serving executives in the Group prior to their appointment to the Board and as such their induction has been focussed on enhancing their knowledge of Board matters and continuing to build relationships with Board members.
A comprehensive induction programme was prepared for Mr Gillespie and is underway.
47 Corporate governance The Group Secretary advises directors of appropriate external training Election and re-election of directors and professional development opportunities and internal training is also In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors of the provided which is relevant to the business of the Group.
Business visits company are required to stand for election or re-election annually by are also arranged as part of the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk shareholders at the companys Annual General Meeting.
The notice of Committee schedule details of which can be found on pages 53 and 60 Annual General Meeting sent to shareholders separately includes details and all non-executive directors are invited to attend.
Directors undertake of the proposed resolutions for the election and re-election of directors.
the training they consider necessary to assist them in carrying out their duties and responsibilities as directors.
Performance evaluation In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board takes During 2013, the directors received updates on a range of subjects to place every three years.
An internal evaluation takes place in the enhance their knowledge, including: intervening years.
Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards - The 2012 evaluation was conducted externally by a specialist board Recommendations: evaluation consultancy, and a number of initiatives were implemented aimed at improving the overall performance and effectiveness of the Banking Reform Bill: Board.
These included keeping Board and committee composition under review: reviewing board and executive succession planning: introducing Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS Proposals on further enhancements to Board information packs: and implementing an Transparency and Trust: expanded remit for the Group Sustainability Committee.
These topics will be kept under regular review as a matter of good practice.
However, the BIS review of Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search 2013 evaluation concluded that the recommendations from the 2012 Firms: evaluation were being appropriately addressed.
Fourth Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV : In 2013, the Board and committee evaluation process was conducted internally by the Group Secretary.
Competition Commissions investigation into statutory audit services: Performance evaluation process Government reforms on executive remuneration and reporting: and The Group Secretary undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation by: Developments in European company law and corporate preparing a detailed framework of key themes for discussion and governance.
questions which was used to structure individual meetings held with each director: The Group Secretary maintains continuing professional development logs.
These are reviewed regularly with directors to assist in identifying discussing the outcomes and recommendations with the Chairman: future training and development opportunities that are specific to the and individual directors requirements.
recommending the outcomes and areas for improvement to the Information Board.
All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant matters and have access to the advice and services of the Group Amongst the areas reviewed were Board composition including Secretary.
In addition, all directors are able, if necessary, to obtain diversity, strategy, risk management, Board meetings and processes, independent professional advice at the companys expense.
external relationships, and the quality of support and information provided to the Board.
Time commitment There is an anticipated time commitment in line with the recommendations of the Walker Review in respect of general Board duties and additional time as necessary in respect of committee duties.
However, as stated in the Chairmans introductory letter to his Corporate governance report, the time commitment currently required of our nonexecutive directors is significant.
Each director is required to seek the agreement of the Chairman before accepting additional commitments that might affect the time the director is able to devote to his or her role as a non-executive director.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of the Chairman and the other directors are able to allocate sufficient time to enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
48 Corporate governance Outcomes of the 2013 performance evaluation Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual The 2013 performance evaluation concluded that the Board was strong General Meeting or can submit written questions in advance.
Directors and operated effectively and within its terms of reference throughout including the chairs of the Board Committees are available to answer 2013.
Key strengths identified included the following: questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Senior Independent Director is also available.
the Board performed strongly during a challenging 2013, both as individuals and collectively: Communication with the company's largest institutional shareholders is undertaken as part of the Investor Relations programme: the dynamic between Board members was good, the Chairman successfully steered the Board through a very difficult and complex the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet agenda, and the directors dedicated a significant amount of time and regularly with UKFI, the organisation set up to manage the effort to their role: and Governments investments in financial institutions, to discuss the strategy and financial performance of the business.
The Group Chief the Boards committees undertook their complex work well Executive and Group Finance Director also undertake an extensive throughout the year, providing strong support to the Board.
annual programme of meetings with the companys largest institutional shareholders.
A summary of the key themes arising from the 2013 performance evaluation is set out below, together with an overview of the proposed the Chairman independently meets with the Groups largest actions: institutional shareholders annually to hear their feedback on management, strategy, business performance and corporate Key themes included Proposed action governance.
Additionally, the Chairman, Senior Independent Board and Board Keep Board and Board committee composition Director and chairs of the Board committees met with the committee under review during 2014, to ensure balance of governance representatives of a number of institutional composition skills, experience, independence, knowledge and shareholders during the year.
the Senior Independent Director is available if any shareholder has Strategic oversight Ensure that Board agendas for 2014 allocate concerns that they feel are not being addressed through the normal sufficient time for Board oversight of key areas of channels.
the Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Risk reporting Consideration to be given to the Board Risk consults extensively with major shareholders in respect of the Committee leading a review of risk reporting at Groups remuneration policy.
Board and Board committee level to further enhance the format and content of risk reports.
In 2013, the Group introduced a programme of UK based events aimed at individual shareholders.
These events provided an opportunity for External relationships Ensure regular contact with key external shareholders to meet with directors and senior management to learn stakeholders in order to maintain effective working more about the business.
Throughout the year, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Individual director and Chairman effectiveness reviews Finance Director and Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration The Chairman met with each director individually to discuss their own Committee communicate shareholder feedback to the Board.
The performance and ongoing professional development and also shared directors also receive independent analyst notes and reports reviewing peer feedback that had been provided as part of the evaluation process.
share price movements and performance against the sector.
Detailed Separately, the Senior Independent Director sought feedback on the market and shareholder feedback is provided to the Board after major Chairmans performance and canvassed views on the Chairmans public announcements such as a results release.
The arrangements in performance from the non-executive directors collectively.
The results of place are to ensure that directors develop an understanding of the views the Chairmans effectiveness review were then discussed by the of major shareholders and that these are considered as part of the annual Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Relations with investors The Groups Investor Relations programme also includes The Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective communication with communications aimed specifically at its fixed income debt investors.
The company communicates with shareholders through the The Group Finance Director and or Group Treasurer give regular Annual Report and Accounts and by providing information in advance of presentations to fixed income investors to discuss strategy and financial the Annual General Meeting.
Individual shareholders can raise matters performance.
There is also a separate section on the Groups website for relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group at any time fixed income investors which includes information on credit ratings, throughout the year by letter, telephone or email via rbs.
com ir securitisation programmes and securities documentation.
Further information is available at rbs.
49 Report of the Group Nominations Committee Attended scheduled Philip Hampton Chairman 5 5 Sandy Crombie 5 5 Alison Davis 5 5 Tony Di lorio 5 5 Robert Gillespie 1 1 1 Penny Hughes 5 5 Brendan Nelson 5 5 Baroness Noakes 5 5 Philip Scott 5 5 Dear Shareholder, Former members Joe MacHale 2 1 1 As Chairman of the Board, I also chair the Group Nominations Committee Art Ryan 3 4 4 and I am pleased to present our report on the committees activity during 2013.
Notes: 1 Appointed to the Board on 2 December 2013.
2 Retired from the Board on 14 May 2013.
Role and responsibilities 3 Retired from the Board on 30 September 2013.
The Group Nominations Committee is responsible for: Principal activity during 2013 The Committee continues to monitor succession planning on an ongoing reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and basis taking into account business requirements and industry making recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes: developments.
In 2013 discussions focused principally on executive director succession and the search for new non-executive directors.
The assisting the Board in the formal selection and appointment of Board also held a separate session on succession planning for the directors executive and non-executive having regard to the overall Executive Committee in June 2013. balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board: Group Chief Executive succession reviewing membership and chairmanship of Board committees: On 12 June 2013, it was announced that Stephen Hester would step down as Group Chief Executive and the search for his successor considering succession planning for the Chairman and the executive commenced immediately, led by the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
and non-executive directors, taking into account the skills and MWM Consulting was engaged to support the recruitment process for the expertise which will be needed on the Board in the future.
No new Group Chief Executive and conducted a global search for potential director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own external candidates as well as engaging fully with internal candidates.
succession: and This enabled the internal candidates to be benchmarked against the very best in the market.
The Committee held a number of discussions on making recommendations to the Board concerning the election and potential candidates internal and external and agreed that Ross re-election by shareholders of directors under the provisions of the McEwan was the strongest candidate on the basis of his extensive Code.
In so doing, they will have due regard to their performance experience in banking, the leadership he had already demonstrated and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in light of the during his time as CEO Retail at RBS and his strong focus on serving our knowledge, skills and experience required and the need for customers.
Ross McEwan was announced as the new Group Chief progressive refreshing of the Board.
Executive on 2 August 2013 and took over from Stephen Hester on 1 October 2013.
MWM Consulting does not provide services to any other The Group Nominations Committee engages with external consultants, part of the Group.
considers potential candidates and recommends appointments of new directors to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Group Nominations Consideration of new non-executive directors Committee are reviewed annually and approved by the Board and are Egon Zehnder International continued to support the search for new nonavailable at rbs.
Egon Zehnder International were tasked with identifying suitable candidates both to fill existing vacancies e. g. Membership and meetings replacements for Joe McHale and Art Ryan who both retired from the All non-executive directors are members of the Group Nominations Board during 2013 and to support future Board succession planning.
The Committee which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Group Committee considered a number of potential candidates during 2013 and Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings.
Robert Gillespie was appointed to the Board on 2 December 2013.
Robert was appointed on the basis of his strong background in finance The Group Nominations Committee holds at least two scheduled and banking and his experience of business and regulatory environments meetings per year, and also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
The search for future potential candidates is 2013, five meetings of the Group Nominations Committee were held and continuing.
Egon Zehnder International does not provide services to any the following table illustrates members attendance at these meetings.
50 Report of the Group Nominations Committee Tenure of non-executive directors The chart below details the gender diversity of the Board.
The chart below sets out the tenure of non-executive directors.
Board and committee membership The Committee reviewed the membership of the Group Sustainability In accordance with the recommendations contained within Lord Davies Committee during 2013 following feedback from the 2012 evaluation.
It report, the Board operates a boardroom diversity policy and a copy of the was agreed that an additional non-executive director should be appointed Boards diversity statement is available on rbs.
to the Group Sustainability Committee and Penny Hughes was appointed as a member in July 2013.
The Group understands the importance of diversity and, with regard to gender diversity, recognises the importance of women having greater Boardroom diversity representation at key decision making points in organisations.
The search The Board remains supportive of Lord Davies recommendations and for Board candidates will continue to be conducted, and currently meets the target of 25 per cent female board representation as nominations appointments made, with due regard to the benefits of set out in Lord Davies report.
diversity on the Board, however, all appointments to the Board are ultimately based on merit, measured against objective criteria, and the skills and experience the individual can bring to the Board.
The balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity including gender diversity on the Board, and how the Board operates together as a unit is reviewed annually as part of the Board evaluation.
Where appropriate, findings from the evaluation will be considered in the search, nomination and appointment process.
If appropriate, additional targets on diversity will be developed in due course.
Further details on the Groups approach to diversity can be found on page 95.
Philip Hampton Chairman of the Group Nominations Committee 26 February 2014 51 Report of the Group Audit Committee Letter from Brendan Nelson, The Markets Controls and Culture Remediation Programmes have Chairman of the Group Audit Committee served to underline the importance of an effective three lines of defence model.
This was a priority in 2013 and the Committee received regular reports on embedding the model within divisions and functions and articulating the responsibilities and capabilities of the business.
Embedding the model and maintaining standards of internal control will continue to be a key priority for the Group during 2014 as the organisational changes announced following the strategic review are implemented.
The Committee will monitor this closely.
The Committee has also monitored the progress of various regulatory investigations and claims based on allegations that the Group had inappropriately tried to influence benchmark interest rates.
Working Dear Shareholder, closely with the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee, recommendations were made in relation to individual accountability.
The 2013 has been a year of significant change for the Group, presenting a Committee continues to consider the output of the review of certain highnumber of challenges to the Group Audit Committee.
The priority of the risk rates which were not subject to investigation by external authorities.
Committee has been to ensure the quality and transparency of disclosure and the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
Most notably the The annual programme of joint visits by the Group Audit and Board Risk Committee supported the Board in its decision to release a trading Committees to the Group's business divisions and control functions statement in advance of announcing the Groups full year results continued in 2013.
The programme allows members of the Committees to prompted by the recognition of further provisions relating to conduct and spend additional time with areas of the business which the Committees litigation, primarily relating to mortgage-backed securities litigation and judge would benefit from a more detailed review.
Invitations to attend are past conduct issues.
These provisions are substantial and have had a extended to all non-executive directors.
During 2013, the Committees significant impact on the Groups performance for the year.
undertook a total of eight visits, including a week long visit to the Groups operations in Asia and a two-day visit to Ulster Bank.
During these visits I During 2013, the Committee also scrutinised the disclosures relating to took the opportunity to meet with local regulators to gain a better management actions to accelerate the rebuild of capital strength and to understanding of their perspectives and concerns on our business and focus on core businesses including the creation of RCR, included in the key control issues.
In all our work we seek to strike the right balance between on the one A key aspect of the Committees responsibilities is to satisfy itself that the hand providing independent oversight and on the other encouragement key accounting decisions, risks and significant management judgements and support to management.
It has been another demanding year for the that underlie the financial statements are appropriate through discussion Group Audit Committee and I would like to extend my thanks to my fellow and deliberation with management.
The Committee reviewed the Committee members for their continued dedication and support conclusions of the External Auditor and, where applicable, other experts throughout 2013. and has concluded that disclosures in the financial statements about these judgements and estimates are transparent and appropriate.
Progress on remediating known control issues has remained a focus of the Committee during 2013.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee has Brendan Nelson overseen the Controls and Culture Remediation Programmes within the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee Markets division and has questioned management in relation to the 26 February 2014 prioritisation of issues, delivery of remediation, quality assurance and contingency plans.
The Committee received reports from Risk Management and Internal Audit and commissioned independent assurance that the programmes were progressing according to plan: that issues were being remediated to industry standard: and that internal reporting accurately reflected progress.
On behalf of the Committee I discussed progress and prioritisation with the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA.
The progress made by management during the course of 2013 was encouraging.
However, we will continue to exercise oversight of the areas remediated to ensure improvements are sustained and that further progress is made during 2014.
52 Report of the Group Audit Committee Report of the Group Audit Committee Performance evaluation Meetings and visits An external evaluation of the effectiveness of the Group Audit Committee A total of seven scheduled meetings of the Group Audit Committee were takes place every three to five years with internal reviews by the Board in held in 2013, including meetings held immediately before the annual and the intervening years.
An internal review of the Board and its senior interim financial statements and the quarterly Interim Management committees took place during 2013 following an external review in 2012.
Statements were considered by the Board.
The Group Audit Committee Overall, the review concluded that the Group Audit Committee continued also held two ad hoc meetings.
Group Audit Committee meetings are to operate effectively.
attended by relevant executive directors, the Internal and External Auditor and Finance and Risk Management executives.
Other executives, subject The role and responsibilities of the Group Audit Committee matter experts and external advisers are also invited to attend, as The Group Audit Committees primary responsibilities are shown below required, to present and advise on reports commissioned by the and are set out in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually by Committee.
At least twice a year the Group Audit Committee meets the Committee and approved by the Board.
These terms of reference are privately with the External Auditor.
The Committee also meets privately available on the Groups website rbs.
As in previous years, the Committee has undertaken a programme of visits to those business areas which it considers merit additional focus.
During 2013, the Committee spent a week in Asia to review the Markets, International Banking, Wealth, Business Services and Group Finance operations in the region.
Internal Audit management made presentations to the Committee at two separate visits, covering functional strategy, bench-strength and capability.
Internal Audit Technology resources and capability were discussed during these meetings and over the course of the year the Committee has monitored progress in strengthening capability through recruitment and co-sourcing strategies.
The Committee also spent time in Ireland to gain better insight into the issues facing Ulster Bank and held additional in depth meetings with the Markets, International Banking and Wealth divisions in the UK.
Membership of the Group Audit Committee The Group Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman and members of the Committee, together with their attendance at scheduled meetings, are shown below.
Attended scheduled Brendan Nelson Chairman 7 7 Tony Di Iorio 7 7 Baroness Noakes 7 7 Philip Scott 7 7 All members of the Group Audit Committee are also members of the Board Risk Committee facilitating effective governance of finance and risk issues.
The Group Audit and Board Risk Committees have strong links with the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee ensuring that compensation decisions reflect relevant finance and risk considerations.
The members of the Group Audit Committee are selected with a view to the expertise and experience of the Committee as a whole.
The Board is satisfied that all Group Audit Committee members have recent and relevant financial experience, and that each member of the Group Audit Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert' and is independent, each as defined in the SEC rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act and related guidance.
Full biographical details of the Committee members are set out on pages 39 to 42.
53 Report of the Group Audit Committee the judgements that had been made by management in assessing the recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets The deferred tax asset relating to tax losses recognised in The Royal Bank of Scotland plc has been written down by 0.7 billion: valuation of the Groups main defined benefit pension scheme.
The Committee considered the assumptions that had been set in valuing the fund and the sensitivities of those assumptions: the accounting treatment of businesses that the Group has committed to sell, in particular the classification of Direct Line Insurance Group plc in light of the sale of tranches of shares in 2013 and the loss of control by the Group: Financial reporting and policy the assessment by management of the adequacy and effectiveness The Group Audit Committee focused on a number of salient judgements of internal controls over financial reporting which had identified and reporting issues in the preparation of the 2013 accounts.
In weaknesses in the Groups privileged access and user entitlement particular, the Committee considered: controls within Technology Services.
The Committee considered the potential impact of those issues upon financial reporting systems the evidence including in relation to the Groups capital, liquidity and requested assurance directly from management regarding and funding position to support the directors going concern prioritisation of remediation and compensating controls.
Further information is set out on page 96: Committee will continue to monitor delivery of the required remediation programme in 2014: the adequacy of loan impairment provisions, with special emphasis on exposures in Global Restructuring Group GRG and Ulster Bank the form and content of the newly introduced Strategic Report in light of the creation of RCR which resulted in increased contained within the Annual Report and Accounts.
As part of its impairment provisions being recognised in the fourth quarter of overall assessment of the Annual Report and Accounts, the 2013.
The Committee was satisfied that the Group loan impairment Committee assisted the Board in determining that the Annual Report provisions and underlying assumptions and methodologies are and Accounts taken as a whole was fair, balanced and robust: understandable, providing the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business the level of provisions held for outstanding litigation and regulatory model and strategy.
A comprehensive review process supports both investigations, including Payment Protection Insurance redress, the Group Audit Committee and ultimately the Board in reaching LIBOR, Interest Rate Hedging Products and US RMBS litigation.
their conclusion:- Following review, the Committee was satisfied that overall the level of provision held is appropriate and that disclosure is sufficiently the production of the Annual Report and Accounts is cotransparent.
However, these issues will be kept under close review ordinated centrally by the Group Chief Accountant with guidance by the Committee in 2014, as matters develop: on requirements being provided to individual contributors: valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments The Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed by the Group carried at fair value including the Groups credit market exposures: Disclosure Committee prior to consideration by the Group Audit Committee: the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets, placing particular focus on International Banking A management certification process requires members of the and RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc.
Following an impairment Executive Committee and other senior executives to provide review at year end, goodwill allocated to International Banking of confirmation following their review of the Annual Report and 1.1 billion was impaired in full: Accounts that they consider them to be fair, balanced and understandable: and Directors are given sufficient time to consider the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is also undertaken in respect of quarterly results announcements.
In addition, the External Auditor considers the Boards statement as part of its audit requirements.
54 Report of the Group Audit Committee Systems of internal control In addition to the Markets Control and Culture Remediation Programmes, In response to Internal Audit findings during the latter half of 2013, the oversight of the three lines of defence model and consideration of Committee received at its request a presentation from executives of the accountability in relation to inappropriate rate setting activity all as more Markets division on controls relating to trade and transaction reporting fully described in the letter from the Committee Chairman, the and actions underway to address identified weaknesses.
The Committee Committee reviewed the progress of the Finance and Risk has asked for regular updates on remediation progress to be provided Transformation Programme.
The Committee challenged management on during 2014. the pace of delivery, cost, prioritisation and benefits.
Management is considering the delivery and direction of the programme in light of the Internal Audit also highlighted that the volume of change underway organisational changes announced following the strategic review and the across the organisation and some specific regulatory remediation efforts, Committee will exercise close oversight of the revised programme in are key risk areas for the Group.
The Committee will focus on these 2014. areas in 2014, particularly as the recently announced strategic changes are executed.
The Committee has also tracked progress in relation to other mandatory and remedial projects and has challenged individual business areas on During bi-annual visits with Internal Audit, the Committee considered the the ability to meet regulatory expectations, responsibilities and required bench-strength and capability of the function and areas where resource.
The Committee has considered ongoing regulatory reviews enhancement was required, including Technology and Markets.
Plans in and investigations and has monitored the Groups relationship with its place to make improvements, including strategies to externally co-source principal regulators.
It has received reports from the Sensitive certain activities and to accelerate recruitment were discussed to ensure Investigations Unit and has considered the appropriateness of action that risks were appropriately covered.
The Committee also reviewed being taken by management in relation to identified issues.
The Internal Audits budget and succession-planning.
Committee has considered the Groups compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and was advised of The Head of Internal Audit continues to report to the Chairman of the whistle-blowing events which occurred within the Group.
The Committee Group Audit Committee.
In 2013, his secondary reporting line was has requested that Internal Audit consider how whistle-blowing changed and he now also reports directly to the Group Chief Executive processes can be audited and will seek to identify enhancements to the previously the Group Finance Director.
Consideration was given to the process.
presence of the Head of Internal Audit and divisional Heads of Audit at Executive Committee and other senior meetings.
The Committee will The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the internal Notifiable continue to monitor the participation and influence of Internal Audit at Event Process during the year: alerts on each event are received by the senior level meetings during 2014.
Chairman of the Committee, and the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
The Committee considered and approved enhancements to the reporting methodology in Internal Audit reports and agreed that the changes to the Regular reports were received by the Committee on wholesale credit criteria underlying ratings would improve transparency and provide quality assurance testing and consumer credit quality assurance testing.
additional evidence about culture and attitude.
These improvements to The Committee reviewed the Groups various pension obligations and reporting will be introduced in 2014.
Proposed improvements to the discussed the status of funding and triennial valuation discussions evaluation of risk and enhancement to the audit universe, that will enable underway with the RBS Group Pension Fund.
The Committee will scoping and prioritisation of the work of Internal Audit that better reflects monitor the investment strategy, capital impact and funding of the the scale and complexity of the business, were also considered by the scheme during 2014, as negotiations progress.
The impact of assurance work initiated by the Groups regulators on risk coverage was discussed and the annual plan of audit As discussed in the report of the Board Risk Committee, changes to the activity was approved.
Divisional Risk and Audit Committee structure, designed to enhance the effectiveness and transparency of the consideration of risk and audit An external review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit takes place every issues at a divisional level are currently under consideration.
Detailed three to five years, with internal reviews continuing in intervening years.
proposals will be presented to the Committee in the first quarter of 2014.
In December 2013, the Group Audit Committee undertook an internal evaluation of Group Internal Audit.
The evaluation concluded that Group Internal audit Internal Audit had operated effectively throughout 2013.
Minor The Group Audit Committee oversaw the work of Internal Audit observations and recommendations will be progressed.
Through regular reports and opinions, the Committee Internal Audit against the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors obtained insights into Internal Audits assessment of the control Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services Sector guidance environment across all divisions and of managements level of recommendations was explicitly included in the evaluation of awareness.
The reports from Internal Audit enabled the Committee to effectiveness.
Internal Audit currently meets these recommendations in monitor internal control within the Group by reporting on areas where the majority of areas and has incorporated actions within its strategic improvements to the control environment were needed.
plan to address identified shortcomings.
55 Report of the Group Audit Committee Oversight of the Groups relationship with its regulators The Group Audit Committee has a responsibility to monitor the Groups The second phase of the review will be conducted following completion relationship with the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA, Financial of the 2013 audit and will involve targeted interviews with individuals Conduct Authority FCA and other regulators.
During 2013, it received based on outputs from the initial phase and their level of interaction with regular reports on the Groups relationship with all its regulators the External Auditor.
It received reports on regulatory In addition to the annual evaluation performed by the Group Audit actions and investigations.
Over the course of the year the Chairmen of Committee, the External Auditor will also conduct their own annual the Groups senior Board committees met with the PRA and the FCA on review of audit quality.
Twelve service criteria for the audit have been an individual basis and also participated in Regulatory College meetings defined by them to measure their performance against the quality with the Groups primary regulators.
The Chairman of the Group Audit commitments set out in their annual audit plan.
Feedback will be Committee also met with the PRA and with the External Auditor on a obtained and discussed with relevant internal stakeholders.
of this exercise will be presented to the Group Audit Committee, with actions defined and agreed to address any areas where performance has The Committee closely monitored the Groups relationship with its fallen below expected standards.
international regulators and significant time was dedicated in particular to understanding the regulatory requirements in the US and their The Group Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations implications for the Groups US operations and structure.
The Committee to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal Chairman also met with the Japanese Financial Services Authority, the of the External Auditor.
In order to make a recommendation to the Board, Central Bank of Ireland and the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston during the Group Audit Committee considers and discusses the performance of local visits.
the External Auditor, taking account of the outcomes of the annual evaluation carried out.
The Board submits the Group Audit Committee's External audit recommendations to shareholders for their approval at the Annual During 2013, the External Auditor provided the Group Audit Committee General Meeting.
with reports summarising their main observations and conclusions arising Deloitte LLP has been the companys auditor since March 2000.
There from their year end audit, half year review and work in connection with are no contractual obligations restricting the company's choice of the first and third quarters financial results and their recommendations External Auditor.
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code, issued by for enhancements to the Groups reporting and controls.
The External the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 provides that Auditor also presented for approval to the Committee their audit plan and companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least audit fee proposal and engagement letter, as well as confirmation of their every ten years.
The Competition Commission following their independence and a comprehensive report of all non-audit fees.
investigation into the supply of statutory audit services also concluded that FTSE 350 companies should tender the audit engagement every ten The Group Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to assess years.
The Group Audit Committee has considered the requirements and the independence and objectivity of the External Auditor and the emerging developments in the EU and currently intends to put the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant contract for the 2016 and future periods audit of the Group out to tender professional and regulatory requirements.
The annual evaluation is later this year.
In the interim, the Board has endorsed the Group Audit carried out in two stages.
An initial review was carried out in early 2014.
Committee's recommendation that shareholders be requested to approve In assessing the effectiveness of the Groups External Auditor, the Group the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as External Auditor at the Annual Audit Committee had regard to: General Meeting in 2014. the experience and expertise of the senior members of the The Group Audit Committee approves the terms of engagement of the engagement team: External Auditor and also fixes their remuneration as authorised by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
the proposed scope of the audit work planned and executed: the quality of dialogue between the External Auditor, the Committee Audit and non-audit services and senior management: The Group Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the clarity, quality and robustness of written reports presented to the the External Auditor to supply audit and non-audit services, which takes Committee setting out the External Auditor findings arising from the into account relevant legislation regarding the provision of such services audit: by an external audit firm.
the quality of observations provided by the External Auditor on the In particular, the Group does not engage the External Auditor to provide Groups systems of internal control: any of the following non-audit services: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or the views of management on the performance of the External financial statements: Auditor: and financial information systems design and implementation: the findings of any reviews of the work of the External Auditor by relevant regulators and the actions taken, where appropriate, to appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or  any matters raised.
kind reports: 56 Report of the Group Audit Committee actuarial services: A competitive tender process is required for all proposed non-audit services engagements where the fees are expected to exceed 100,000. internal audit outsourcing services: Engagements below 100,000 may be approved by the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee: as an additional governance control all management functions or human resources: engagements have to be approved by the Group Chief Accountant and broker or dealer, investment adviser, or investment banking Group Procurement.
Where the engagement is tax related, approval services: must also be obtained from the Head of Group Taxation.
Ad hoc approvals of non-audit services are ratified by the Group Audit legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: and Committee each quarter.
During 2013, the External Auditor were approved to undertake certain significant engagements which are other services determined to be impermissible by the US Public categorised and explained more fully below: Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Regulatory requests and attestations three engagements The Group Audit Committee reviews the policy annually and Regulators, both UK-based and overseas, requested certain work be prospectively approves the provision of audit services and certain nonundertaken by the Group during 2013 to provide assurances and meet audit services by the External Auditor.
Annual audit services include all certain requirements.
In all three such engagements undertaken by the services detailed in the annual engagement letter including the annual External Auditor, their existing knowledge of the Group was highlighted audit and interim reviews including US reporting requirements and as a strong benefit.
It allowed the work to commence quickly and with periodic profit verifications.
minimal disruption in all instances.
The benefits of maintaining consistency between similar engagements was also highlighted.
Annual audit services also include statutory or non-statutory audits required by Group companies that are not incorporated in the UK.
Terms Tax advisory and compliance services one engagement of engagement for these audits are agreed separately with management, Tax advisory services were provided to a subsidiary established by RBS and are consistent with those set out in the audit engagement letter to and Blackstone.
The External Auditor had been involved in establishing the extent permitted by local regulations.
During 2013, prospectively the subsidiary company and so had an in-depth understanding of its approved non-audit services included the following classes of service: structure and tax liabilities.
capital raising, including consents, comfort letters, reviews of Membership of a company acquired by Deloitte one engagement registration statements and similar services in respect of documents Bersin has provided an annual membership to the RBS Group since that incorporate or include the audited financial statements of the 2010.
This has allowed our HR and Learning & Talent Practitioners to Group: access extensive online research libraries.
Bersin was acquired by Deloitte in December 2012 and so at the point the Groups Bersin accounting opinions, including accounting consultations and support membership was due for renewal ad hoc approval by the Group Audit related to generally accepted accounting principles and financial Committee was sought.
reporting matters relating to the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries: Non-statutory audit of full year accounts one engagement As part of the disposal of certain UK branches, it has been necessary to any reports that, according to law or regulation in the relevant prepare audited accounts for the business for 2012 and 2013.
The jurisdiction, must be and may only be rendered by the External External Auditor was selected to provide audit services based on its Auditor: extensive experience of the Groups systems and process, as well as its reports providing assurance to third parties over certain of the specific knowledge of the project.
In addition, following the completion of Groups internal controls prepared under US Statement of Auditing the banking licence application for the business, the new legal entity Standards 70 Service Organisations or similar auditing standards would be a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group: it is the Groups policy in other jurisdictions: and to use the Groups External Auditor to audit the accounts of all subsidiaries except in exceptional circumstances.
reports and letters providing assurance to the Group in relation to a third party company where the Group is acting as equity debt In addition, the External Auditor is engaged from time to time by the underwriter in a transaction, in the ordinary course of business.
Group to perform services in relation to the restructuring of loans and other financing.
The Group is not liable for these fees, and often has a For all other permitted non-audit services, Group Audit Committee limited role in the selection process.
As an additional governance control, approval must be sought, on a case-by-case basis, in advance.
The these engagements are subject to the ad hoc approval process.
Group Audit Committee reviews and monitors the independence and Information on fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services objectivity of the External Auditor when it approves non-audit work, taking carried out by the External Auditor can be found in Note 5 to the into consideration relevant legislation, ethical guidance and the level of consolidated accounts on page 403. non-audit services relative to audit services.
The approval process is rigorously applied to prevent the External Auditor from functioning as management, auditing their own work, or serving in an advocacy role.
Brendan Nelson Chairman of the Group Audit Committee 26 February 2014 57 Report of the Board Risk Committee Letter from Philip Scott, In response to the allegations set out in the Tomlinson Report that the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Groups restructuring division systemically set out to make profit at the expense of distressed customers, an independent review by the law firm Clifford Chance was commissioned to investigate these claims fully.
The Groups regulators will also undertake their own review.
While no evidence has been produced that supports the claims set out in the Tomlinson Report, the allegations have damaged our reputation and threaten to undermine our ability to build trust with customers and to increase lending to businesses in the UK economy.
Therefore it is essential that the Group verifies the facts as quickly as possible.
The Board Risk Committee has undertaken to review the outputs of both investigations, in depth, on behalf of the Board and make recommendations as to action required.
Dear Shareholder, During 2013, the Board Risk Committee has continued to oversee the Throughout 2013, the Board Risk Committee has sought to continue to remediation activity following the major IT incident in 2012 and the provide assurance that the Group is operating in a safe and controlled ongoing effort to ensure the Group is more resilient in this respect in manner and within the agreed risk appetite framework approved by the future.
The Committee has also considered other potential single points Board.
This has been done against a backdrop of difficult external market of failure and how these can be identified and prevented or mitigated.
conditions and increased regulatory scrutiny by the Prudential Regulatory This focus will continue in 2014 and the Committee will continue to liaise Authority PRA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Groups with its principal regulators during the first quarter of the year as the overseas regulators.
investigation of the IT incident concludes.
In particular, the Committee has focussed on market risk, operational The Committee has considered reports on data quality, information risk, credit risk, conduct and regulatory risk and reputational risk.
In its security and corporate security with a particular focus on cyber security.
consideration of each area of risk, culture has been the priority and the This continues to be a significant issue for the banking industry as a Committee has emphasised the importance of instilling the correct whole and will remain a priority for the Committee in 2014. behaviours within the organisation, alongside processes and tools designed with the customer at the fore.
It is vital that the business is able Consideration of the case for RCR and substantiation of the capital plan to get these things right in order to meet its target of becoming a really was a major undertaking for the Group in the latter half of 2013.
The Committee is working hard to drive cultural change and the fundamental strategic importance of this review, consideration, increase accountability throughout the organisation.
analysis and approval was undertaken collectively by the Group Board rather than at Committee level, which I consider to be appropriate.
As a Oversight of risk has been enhanced in the period, through the priority in 2014, the Board Risk Committee will monitor the risks in separation of the Risk Management and Conduct and Regulatory Affairs execution of this plan and also execution of the measures announced functions.
The restructure of the Risk function has enabled the following the strategic review.
Committee to achieve clearer and more effective oversight of conduct and regulatory issues, which will have long-lasting benefits.
The While 2013 has presented significant challenges, there has also been Committee dedicates substantial time each year to the oversight of the significant progress in the oversight of risk and control in many areas.
In risk operating model and succession planning and will continue to particular I would highlight the following: monitor these changes during 2014 as the respective functions continue to strengthen and embed.
the Committee has continued to enhance its relationship with other Committees, in particular the Group Performance and Remuneration Conduct risk standards continue to be communicated to employees using Committee.
It has advised on matters such as assessing risk the four pillars of conduct risk: employee conduct: market conduct: performance of both divisions and individuals, reviewing the risk corporate conduct: and conduct towards customers.
These standards objectives of members of the Executive Committee and considering have been applied in the Committees consideration of issues including the accountability of individuals in relation to specific matters: the review of the sale of interest rate hedging products to SME customers.
The Committee has also placed renewed focus on the quality the role of Divisional Risk and Audit Committees has been reviewed of advice provided to customers, particularly in relation to mortgages, in conjunction with the Group Audit Committee to ensure that they investment products and private client products.
provide more transparency and more effective consideration of risk at a divisional level.
Proposed changes to the existing model will be considered by the Committee in Q1 2014: 58 Report of the Board Risk Committee the Committee has overseen the refinement and further embedding More detailed information on each of these areas is set out in the Board of the Groups risk appetite framework into the business divisions: Risk Committee report that follows.
the Committee considered the outputs of stress testing and 2013 was a challenging year for the Board Risk Committee and I would approved a reverse stress test trigger framework to further assist the like to extend my gratitude to my fellow members and to the Groups risk management team in assessing how the business is positioned senior leadership team for the additional time that they have dedicated to to respond to various potential scenarios: and the business of the Committee.
an economic capital framework was presented and the Committee Philip Scott, considered how this would be transitioned into business as usual.
Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 26 February 2014 59 Report of the Board Risk Committee Report of the Board Risk Committee Performance evaluation Meetings and visits A review of the effectiveness of the Board and senior committees, The Board Risk Committee held seven scheduled meetings in 2013. including the Board Risk Committee, during 2013 was conducted Meetings are held alongside Group Audit Committee meetings to ensure internally.
The Committee has considered and discussed the report on that the work of the two Committees is coordinated and consistent.
Board the outcomes of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the Risk Committee meetings are attended by relevant executive directors, evaluation has been conducted, the conclusions and the risk management, finance and internal audit executives.
External advice recommendations for action.
Overall, the review concluded that the Board may be sought by the Board Risk Committee where considered Risk Committee continued to operate effectively but some areas where appropriate.
During 2013, the members of Board Risk Committee, in further enhancements could be made, were identified.
The outcomes of conjunction with the members of the Group Audit Committee, took part in the evaluation have been reported to the Board, and during 2014, the an annual programme of visits to the Groups business divisions and Committee will place focus on driving further improvements to risk control functions.
This programme included two in depth sessions with reporting and prioritisation of Committee time.
the Risk Management function to consider key risk areas and the risk strategy and operating model.
Full details about the programme of visits The role and responsibilities of the Board Risk Committee is set out in the Report of the Group Audit Committee on page 53.
The Board Risk Committees primary responsibilities are shown below and are set out in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually by Membership of the Board Risk Committee the Committee and approved by the Board.
These are available on The Board Risk Committee comprises at least three independent nonrbs.
The Chairman and members of the Committee, together with their attendance at meetings, are shown below.
Attended scheduled Philip Scott Chairman 7 7 Sandy Crombie 7 7 Tony Di Iorio 1 6 7 Brendan Nelson 7 7 Baroness Noakes 7 7 Former director Joe MacHale 2 2 4 Notes: 1 Missed one meeting due to travel disruption.
Philip Scott, Tony Di Iorio, Brendan Nelson and Baroness Noakes are also members of the Group Audit Committee.
Sandy Crombie is also a member of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
This common membership ensures effective governance across all finance, risk and remuneration issues, and that agendas are aligned and overlap is avoided, where possible.
60 Report of the Board Risk Committee Risk profile Risk strategy and policy Reporting RBS has a clear risk strategy supported by well defined strategic risk The Committee received a detailed report on key risks and metrics at objectives.
The members of the Board Risk Committee provide input to each meeting and the Group Chief Risk Officer provided a verbal update the overarching strategy for the business on an ongoing basis.
on the key risks to the organisation.
Following his appointment, the Head of Conduct and Regulatory Affairs also provided a verbal update on During 2013, the Board Risk Committee reviewed the implementation of current pertinent matters to the Committee at each meeting.
These the Group Policy Framework across the organisation.
It also reviewed reports enabled the Committee to identify the key risk areas where the output of control environment certifications which provided the additional focus was required.
Committee with an assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment.
Particular focus was placed on how the During 2013, the Committee has continued to focus on enhancing risk operational risk framework was structured to identify single points of reporting and some improvements have been made, including the failure and black swan events, being those events that were difficult to creation of a risk report at entity level of National Westminster Bank Plc.
predict but would have a high impact.
The Committee agreed that Risk However, the annual Committee performance evaluation has highlighted Management should reinforce with divisions that risk assessments and that more work is required to rationalise the reports that are received by scenario analysis should extend to these events and that consideration the Committee: to ensure that key risks are conveyed succinctly and should also be given to resilience.
prominently: and to standardise and simplify presentations.
This will be taken forward in 2014.
Together with the Group Audit Committee, throughout 2013, the members placed particular focus on the implementation and embedding The Committee reported to the Board following each meeting on its of the three lines of defence model across divisions.
While progress has consideration of the risk profile of the business and made been made, the Committee recognises that additional work is required to recommendations as appropriate.
fully delineate responsibilities across front line management, risk and internal audit.
The Committee has emphasised that it considers effective Risk Incidents and Regulatory reviews and investigations operation of the model to be a priority and will closely monitor progress As in previous years, regulatory risk featured highly on the agenda of the in 2014 alongside strategic and organisational change.
Most significantly, as highlighted above, in the letter from the Committee Chairman, the Committee continued to play a The Committee also considered managements plans to deliver a holistic central role in the oversight and remediation of the Groups 2012 IT Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework, intended to deliver an incident.
It received regular reports on the work being undertaken to increase in effectiveness and make risk more relevant to the operation of enhance resilience and address root causes of the issue and has the business.
This would involve rationalising existing risk management challenged management on the robustness of plans and in relation to tools and making them integral to business as usual.
The Committee capability across the three lines of defence.
Significant progress has noted its emphatic support to the accelerated programme of work been made to address the deficiencies highlighted by the incident.
planned for 2013 2014 which including the development of outcomeHowever, longer term investment in further enhancement to the Groups focused principles of business and the use of tools such as the yes infrastructure is ongoing.
The Committee will continue to oversee the check to align values with customer outcomes based on integrity, remediation activity and wider enhancement required to systems and safety, soundness, reputation and standards.
The Committee will also work with its regulators to address findings as their investigation of the incident concludes and The members closely reviewed implementation plans and delivery of will ensure accountability is fully considered and learnings are adopted, solutions to meet the requirements of the Single European Payments across the organisation.
The Committee in particular has monitored the relationship with the Central Bank of Ireland in this regard.
The Committee was dismayed to learn of the most recent system outage in late 2013 and will ensure that this matter and any correlation with the The Committee has received reports on plans underway to enhance earlier IT incident is fully understood.
data quality across the organisation.
It has also considered information security, corporate security and cyber risk.
The allegations set out in the Tomlinson Report have been taken very seriously by the Group and while there is no evidence of systemic wrongdoing in the way distressed customers were treated by the Groups restructuring division, an independent review by Clifford Chance has been commissioned.
The FCA has separately appointed a skilled person to undertake a review under section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act.
The Board Risk Committee will review the outputs of these investigations and will liaise with its regulators as required.
61 Report of the Board Risk Committee Risk appetite framework and limits A number of other internal and regulatory investigations arose or The risk appetite framework for the Group was reviewed in 2013 to continued throughout 2013.
During the period, the Committee received ensure it remained fit for purpose in light of internal restructuring, market reports on: positioning and changes to regulation.
Consideration was given to how risk appetite linked to strategic objectives and how quantitative risk the investigation of the alleged mis-selling of interest rate hedging appetite targets had been set.
The Committee discussed earnings products to small and medium sized enterprises and considered the volatility, including the impact of diversification benefit on the targets.
appropriateness of remediation activity: Following detailed discussion, the Committee recommended the framework to the Board for approval and noted its support to the investigation of allegations of inappropriate rate setting activity management as the framework was embedded across the Group at in particular foreign exchange rates: divisional level.
The Board Risk Committee separately reviewed the country risk appetite and Group Market Risk Control Framework and anti-money laundering remediation including divisional remediation noted new market risk caps and changes to the existing limits.
plans, prioritisation and resource requirements: In the second half of 2013 the Committee reviewed proposed changes to the sale of complex products and the quality of investment advice to the Single Name Concentration framework for Banks and a new Single customers.
In particular, it received reports on required Name Concentration grid for Large Corporates.
enhancements to the mortgage sales process.
The sales and product design and approvals process were also reviewed: The Committee also considered the Economic Capital model, which had been under delivery since 2010.
It was noted that the model was now the status of key litigation cases, in particular the US residential being transitioned to business as usual activity and had been used to mortgage-backed securities litigation claims: and assess credit concentration risk for Pillar 2 capital as part of the 2011 ICAAP, resulting in a more accurate capital calculation.
The Committee the remediation of known regulatory issues in the RBS Americas is confident that the model will provide management with a clearer region.
Where appropriate, the Committee oversaw liaison with regulators: The Committee continued to review the output of stress testing and made recommendations regarding required remediation, training and discussed the stress scenarios and underlying assumptions.
In the process controls and enhancements: and made recommendations to the second half of 2013, the Committee noted the output of a reverse stress Group Performance and Remuneration Committee in relation to testing exercise and recommended it for approval to the Board.
Progress to address identified weaknesses will be closely monitored throughout 2014.
Risk management operating model During the course of two separate visits to Risk Management, the In 2013, the Balcony Oversight Committee was established in Committee reviewed the risk management operating model to ensure acknowledgment of the volume of ongoing conduct issues, particularly in the function had the appropriate structure and resources in place to the Markets division.
The aim of the Balcony Oversight Committee deliver its strategic plan.
Bench-strength of the risk function was chaired by the Head of Conduct and Regulatory Affairs, is to provide reviewed and consideration was give to succession-planning, resource independent oversight, identify common themes and to share lessons and budget.
The Balcony Oversight Committee reports to the Board Risk Committee and regular updates were provided on the status of ongoing The strengthening of the Conduct and Regulatory Affairs function during investigations and emerging themes.
the second half of the year resulted in various changes to the risk Capital and liquidity management operating model which were discussed in detail with the The Committee reviewed the capital and liquidity position of the business Committee.
Further developments to Risk Management, Conduct and Regulatory Affairs and the risk committee framework that underpins the regularly in light of external conditions.
Board Risk Committee will continue to be progressed in 2014 and the The Committee made recommendations to the Board concerning the Committee will remain involved in the discussions and changes as appropriate.
Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment, the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and the Contingency Funding Plan, in line with the Groups commitments to its regulators.
As referenced in the Group Audit Committee report on pages 52 to 57, a framework of Divisional Risk and Audit Committees is responsible for reviewing the business of each division and reporting to the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee.
During 2013, the Committee reviewed the operation of the committees and requested that management consider alternative mechanisms that could more effectively provide a line of sight into divisional risk issues and activity.
The output of that review, will be more fully discussed in Q1 2014.
62 Report of the Board Risk Committee Risk architecture Remuneration The Committee reviewed the preparations underway to ensure The Committee recognises that embedding the correct conduct and compliance with the new best practice principles that had been defined culture in the organisation requires an emphasis on performance by the Basel Committee of Banking Supervision BCBS for internal risk management and conduct standards.
The Board Risk Committee has reporting and data aggregation practices, which would be effective in continued to work closely with the Group Chief Executive and Group 2016.
Consideration was given to how these requirements reaffirmed Performance and Remuneration Committee to consider the risk aspects priorities and direction of travel with the Finance and Risk of Executive Committee members objectives and remuneration Transformation FiRST Programme and it was noted that work was in arrangements as appropriate.
progress to both accelerate usage of the FiRST strategic solution by Risk and enhance existing capabilities.
In conjunction with the Group The Committee considered the risk performance of divisions in light of Audit Committee, the Board Risk Committee will closely monitor delivery known risk and control issues and under advice from Risk Management of the FiRST programme in 2014 and any required changes as a result and Internal Audit.
It made recommendations regarding appropriate of the strategic review.
adjustments, to the Group Chief Executive and Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
The Committee has reviewed specific accountability cases as required and made recommendations accordingly.
Philip Scott Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 26 February 2014 63 Report of the Group Sustainability Committee Letter from Sandy Crombie receiving reports on the sustainability activities across the company Chairman of the Group Sustainability Committee including supporting enterprise, employee engagement, citizenship, environment, safety and security: improved reporting through the annual Sustainability Report which provides a review of our activities and details future commitments, goals and priorities.
We adhere to best practice standards for our reporting, following a principles framework of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness.
Deloitte LLP undertake independent assurance of our reporting and were able to provide an unqualified assurance statement in respect of the 2012 Sustainability Report which was published in May 2013: Dear Shareholder, receiving reports on people issues including health and safety, diversity and inclusion, employee wellbeing and employee opinion: Early in 2013 the remit of the Group Sustainability Committee was and increased to include broader sustainability issues including conduct, culture, reputation and most importantly, how the Group serves its receiving reports on legal issues and legislative changes that impact customers.
Membership was strengthened with an additional non-executive director Other areas supported by the Committee included the adoption of a and meeting frequency was also increased, all underlining our number of internationally accepted voluntary codes notably the Equator commitment to the sustainability agenda.
Principles, United Nations Global Compact and Natural Capital Declaration see pages 31 to 33 for more detail.
While 2013 presented significant challenges, progress was made by the Committee in overseeing and challenging how management was Although much still has to be done, it is pleasing that the efforts to build a addressing sustainability and reputation issues relating to all stakeholder sustainable and responsible business have been recognised through groups.
Key areas of work during the year included: independent and external measures such as inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index with our highest score to date in 2013.
We oversight of the introduction and embedding of the purpose, vision have also been included in the FTSE4Good Index Series which and values work intended to promote behavioural change and measures the performance of companies that meet globally recognised strengthen our culture Group-wide.
This included the introduction of corporate responsibility standards see pages 31 to 33 for more the Code of Conduct which lays out the standard of conduct that information on these external commitments.
supports the Groups values of serving customers, working together, doing the right thing and thinking long term: To continue the progress made in 2013, a priority for the Committee will be to ensure that its strategic direction is aligned with business priorities oversight of how the Group is balancing the needs of all its and that sustainability is embedded in everything that we do.
stakeholder groups including customers, investors, employees, regulators and communities society and alignment with the Groups Finally I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their strategic intent: expertise and guidance and all those who have supported us, whether inside or outside RBS, for their contribution to our work.
ongoing commitment to the stakeholder engagement programme through regular face to face sessions with advocacy groups on key More detailed information on the Committee and the Groups approach to issues of concern.
This has been a key area of progress for the sustainability is found on pages 31 to 33.
Committee allowing for challenge and debate in an open and collaborative environment more details on next page : oversight of development of Environmental, Social and Ethical ESE policies to ensure increased transparency and disclosure and Sandy Crombie more responsible management of risks in sensitive and high risk Chairman of the Group Sustainability Committee sectors.
ESE policies reviewed in 2013 included Mining and Metals, 26 February 2014 Oil and Gas and Gambling: 64 Report of the Group Sustainability Committee Report of the Group Sustainability Committee Role and responsibilities of the Group Sustainability Committee Meetings The Group Sustainability Committee is responsible for overseeing and The Group Sustainability Committee held six Committee meetings in challenging how management is addressing sustainability and reputation 2013 in addition to seven stakeholder engagements sessions.
Both were issues relating to all stakeholder groups, except where such issues have attended by senior representatives from the customer facing divisions as already been dealt with by another Board committee.
well as Human Resources, Sustainability, Risk Management, Communications, Legal, Strategy and Corporate Services.
The Chairman Authority is delegated to the Group Sustainability Committee by the of the Board regularly attends the meeting as well as internal and Board and the Committee will report and make recommendations to the external specialists who may be requested to attend for specific items.
The terms of reference of the Group Sustainability Committee are available on the Groups website rbs.
com and these are Stakeholder Engagement Sessions considered annually by the Group Sustainability Committee and Balancing the needs of stakeholders means understanding the views of approved by the Board.
A report on the activities of the Group all those who have an interest in our business.
In addition to ongoing Sustainability Committee in fulfilling its responsibilities is provided to the engagement throughout RBS with internal and external stakeholders, Board following each Committee meeting.
The principal responsibilities of during the year, the Group Sustainability Committee participated in seven the Group Sustainability Committee are shown below aligned to the stakeholder engagement sessions covering the following topics: Groups values.
Fair Banking: Safety and Security: Citizenship: Supporting Enterprise: Sustainability priorities in the USA: Investor Perspective: and Employee Engagement.
These stakeholder engagement discussions help inform decision making across the Group, shape future polices and influence strategic priorities and will continue to play a key role.
For more information see pages 31 to 33.
In 2013, a programme of UK based events aimed at individual shareholders was introduced.
These events provided an opportunity for shareholders to meet directors and senior management to learn more about the business.
Membership The Group Sustainability Committee comprises three independent nonexecutive directors.
Attended scheduled Sandy Crombie Chairman 6 6 Alison Davis 1 5 6 Penny Hughes 2 3 3 Notes: 1 One meeting missed due to time zone differences.
2 Appointed to the Committee with effect from 30 July 2013.
Performance evaluation An internal review of the effectiveness of the Group Sustainability Committee took place in 2013.
Overall the review concluded that the Group Sustainability Committee continued to operate effectively.
An ongoing challenge will be to ensure that the Groups strategy covers the long term needs of all stakeholders and that the work of the Group Sustainability Committee is fully aligned with that strategy.
65 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement from the Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Penny Hughes Dear Shareholder, This years remuneration report is published at an important moment for RBS.
Five years on from the companys rescue, RBS is substantially safer and smaller, has a new Group Chief Executive, and has embarked on a new strategy positioning customers at its centre.
In this changing environment, the complex challenges surrounding remuneration that I have written about in this space for the last few years, have not gone away.
The Committee is tasked with making decisions on pay that encourage good service to our customers, are fair to all of our employees, and are in the interests of all of our shareholders.
These decisions are never easy and are rarely popular in all quarters.
Sometimes it would be easier for the Committee to make different decisions, prioritising the needs of one stakeholder group over another.
We understand why RBS is subject to public and political scrutiny and has an obligation to the public that goes beyond that of our competitors.
But truly living up to our responsibilities means we have to reject easy options which are not in the long-term interests of our stakeholders.
2013 performance a challenging year The Group bonus pool has fallen between 2012 and 2013 in line Although now safer and more secure than it was five years ago, RBS is with the fall in pre-RCR operating profit.
still beset by issues that have their roots in the past.
Our substantial loss for 2013 arises primarily from the decision to remove more of the bad The underlying reduction is significantly greater when taking account assets from our balance sheet and make additional provisions for of the deduction made last year for LIBOR.
It is a matter of great regret that it is against this background that I have to make this report.
I know shareholders had The percentage of staff receiving no bonuses has increased over hoped that losses like this would have been well behind RBS by now.
the last year from 40% to 43% as we continue to target high Those who served on the Executive Committee during the year did not performers.
Most of this team is relatively new, but this was an important leadership issue.
In our UK retail business, incentive schemes for customer facing staff have minimum standards relating to customer and risk measures which must be met before any payments can be Continuing pay reform considered.
There has been a fundamental cultural shift in our approach to pay: Performance related pay is linked to a combination of performance Over the last four years alone, bonus pools have fallen by 58% at a measures covering financial and non-financial metrics.
Group level and by 75% within the Markets division.
Operating in markets where absolute and relative levels of pay are still high, RBS has been a back-marker.
But we do not and cannot operate in a vacuum.
Many of our employees have done good work this year to help rebuild the company for the future.
While pay in aggregate will continue to remain at the lower end of current market practice, I firmly believe our pay levels must remain competitive to attract and retain a high calibre of staff.
This is essential if we are to build a business of value for our customers and our shareholders.
It is worth noting that bonuses and other variable pay arrangements are standard practice for FTSE100 companies, not just banks.
Research indicates that 99% of executives in the FTSE100 at Executive Committee level or above have a variable to fixed pay ratio that exceeds 1:1.
I know it is not always easy to accept, but if RBS is to thrive we must do what it takes to attract and keep the people who will help us achieve our goals.
We think that the right positioning of the business is to be commercial.
While we are sensitive to public opinion, particularly given our ownership structure, the ability to pay competitively is fundamental to getting RBS to where we need it to be.
66 Directors Remuneration Report There is an understandable public focus on the highest paid specialist Performance considerations for 2013 talent at RBS.
However, as a Committee, we are equally concerned Group Operating Profit, excluding the impact of RBS Capital about pay for staff at all levels.
We provide oversight and guidance on all Resolution RCR of 2,520 million, a reduction of 15% on 2012.
In 2014 we are directing a greater proportion of our salary budget to our lower paid employees.
We continue Loss before tax of 8,243 million, due in part to the impact of RCR to pay our permanent employees in the UK at or above the Living Wage which will help to remove uncertainty associated with legacy issues.
benchmarks National and London and intend to apply for full accreditation.
Markets division making strategic progress, staff costs are down 19% and RWAs are down 36%.
Our remuneration policy promotes transparency and accountability: pay is clawed back when things go wrong, and awards are suspended when Core Tier 1 capital ratio improved to 10.9% from 10.3% at the end of investigations are ongoing.
Clawback is a powerful tool and we have put 2012. it to use.
This year we have suspended awards pending investigations triggered by serious allegations of misconduct.
It is important for the Reduction in Non-Core assets to 28 billion.
company and the executives involved that discretionary awards are put on hold until all the facts are clear.
RBS offered 58.5 billion of loans and facilities to UK businesses in 2013 of which 31.5 billion was to SMEs.
RBS also helped UK CRD IV companies, universities and housing associations to raise 24.7 Many of you will be aware that a bonus cap has been introduced under billion through bond issues in 2013. the fourth European Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV.
Whilst the actual regulation and setting of a hard cap is not what we would have Employee engagement is strong and clear evidence that key values wished for, it is essentially aligned to our own actions to moderate pay are being embedded across the Group.
levels and reduce pay leverage.
We will therefore seek to comply with the spirit as well as the letter of the regulations.
Decisions made on pay Full details of decisions for both current and former directors are set We are considering whether to ask shareholders to approve a maximum out in this report.
ratio of variable to fixed pay at 2:1, rather than the default ratio of 1:1, at the 2014 AGM.
As the legislation is now in force, we are reviewing how Ross McEwans salary on appointment as Group Chief Executive best to structure remuneration arrangements that are both compliant and represented a 17% reduction to his predecessor.
The Board will agree its final position in light of emerging market practice and details of any proposals will be In line with existing policy, Ross McEwan will receive a long-term contained in the Letter to Shareholders prior to the AGM.
New Share Plan Nathan Bostock has announced his departure and all outstanding At the 2014 AGM we will seek approval for the RBS 2014 Employee share awards will lapse.
This will replace the Deferral Plan which expires in December 2014 and the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Further details will be Total compensation, both on an overall and per employee level, has set out in the Letter to Shareholders.
been reduced for 2013. Review of year and Group performance Total variable compensation reduced again for 2013, down 15% at a Further progress was made in the run down of Non-Core during 2013.
Group level and 17% for Markets compared to 2012.
This includes a Our balance sheet and capital levels indicate how far RBS has come in 25 million reduction as part of the committed LIBOR related building a safe and sustainable foundation.
From a strategic point of view, actions.
progress was also made in re-shaping the Markets business, selling a further stake in Direct Line Group, agreeing a pre-IPO investment of the Total Group variable compensation as a percentage of operating Williams and Glyn branches and bringing forward the IPO of Citizens.
profit pre-RCR and before variable compensation, a key ratio, has However, I wont shy away from the fact that overall its been a tough remained at 19%.
year for RBS in terms of financial performance.
Results in certain divisions have been disappointing and revenue growth is not what we The proportion of deferred variable compensation delivered in would like it to be at this point in our recovery.
shares has increased significantly for 2013, representing 63% for Group and 81% for Markets.
Further details on the bonus pool can The regulatory landscape and increasing capital requirements have an be found in Note 3 to the accounts on page 397. impact on our returns to shareholders and, in turn, this must be reflected in our returns to employees.
The Committee considers all these factors Incentive awards continue to be targeted towards high performers.
when determining appropriate reward levels.
43% of employees who are eligible will not receive a bonus.
67 Directors Remuneration Report Of those employees who do receive an award, 47% will receive RBS is a major UK employer and, as a bank playing a key role in the 2,000 or less and 70% will receive less than 5,000. economic recovery, we understand the importance of getting our pay decisions right.
We are committed to a high level of transparency and I Any awards above 25,000 will be delivered 100% in shares and believe the new reporting and voting requirements that apply to this deferred over a three year period.
years remuneration report can add to this process.
Average salary increases made across the business in 2014 will be My closing message is simple.
Pay must align with the long-term strategy less than 2%.
and be cut when performance disappoints.
I hope shareholders find this years report helpful and feel able to support In conclusion, I believe our decisions on pay take account of performance the proposals at the AGM.
while giving us the flexibility to attract and retain the expertise needed to build for the future.
The Committee continues to receive valuable and independent advice from PwC and I would like to thank my fellow Committee members and those who support the Committee for their insight and guidance during another eventful year.
I am also greatly encouraged by the willingness of shareholders to engage constructively in the pay debate and grateful for their support.
Following the publication of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards report in June 2013 and the announcement from the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA that they intend to consult on a revised Remuneration Code in 2014, it is likely that remuneration will Penny Hughes continue to be an important part of the agenda facing banks in the year Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee ahead.
We welcome any developments that help to make banks safer 26 February 2014 and ensure fair returns for both shareholders and employees.
68 Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Policy Future policy table for executive directors EDs Fixed pay elements To provide a level of competitive remuneration for performing the role with less reliance on variable pay in order to discourage excessive risk-taking and with partial delivery in shares to align with long-term shareholder value.
Purpose and link Performance metrics Element of pay to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and period Base salary To aid recruitment and Paid monthly and reviewed annually.
No performance conditions are retention of high performing directly applicable although individuals whilst paying no The rates for 2014 are as follows: Any future salary increases any future salary increases will more than is necessary.
To Group Chief Executive - 1,000,000 will be considered against take into account performance provide a competitive level of Group Finance Director - 765,000 peer companies and will not rating during the year.
fixed cash remuneration, normally be greater than the reflecting the skills and Further details on remuneration average salary increase for experience required, and to arrangements for the year ahead are RBS employees over the discourage excessive riskset out on pages 82 to 84 of the period of the policy.
Fixed share To provide fixed pay that A fixed allowance, paid entirely in An award of shares with an N A allowance reflects the skills and shares.
Individuals will receive shares annual value of up to 100% of experience required for the that vest immediately subject to any salary at the time of award.
This will be delivered in deductions required for tax purposes shares and held for the long and a retention period will apply.
The fixed share allowance is term.
Shares will be released in equal not pensionable.
tranches over a five year period.
The fixed share allowance will be paid in arrears, initially at six monthly intervals, and in the event of termination, only in respect of service 1 completed.
Benefits To provide a range of flexible A set level of funding is provided and Set level of funding for N A and market competitive EDs can select from a range of benefits currently 26,250 benefits to further aid benefits including: which is subject to review.
recruitment and retention of Company car key individuals.
Private medical insurance Further benefits such as Life assurance relocation allowances and Ill health income protection other benefits e. g. tax advice, housing and flight allowances Also entitled to use of a car and driver and payment of legal fees on company business and standard may be offered in line with benefits such as holiday and sick pay.
Further benefits including allowances The value of benefits paid will when relocating from overseas may be disclosed each year in the be provided to secure the most annual report on suitable candidate for the role.
Pension To encourage planning for Provision of a monthly cash pension Pension allowance of 35% of N A retirement and long-term allowance based on a multiple of salary.
Opportunity to participate in a defined contribution pension scheme.
Note: 1 The company believes that delivery in shares is the most appropriate construct for a fixed allowance to executive directors, qualifying as fixed remuneration for the requirements imposed under CRD IV.
If regulatory requirements emerge that prohibit any such allowances being delivered in shares, then the company reserves the right to provide the value of the allowance in cash instead in order to comply.
69 Directors Remuneration Policy Variable pay To further incentivise superior long-term performance, with rewards aligned with shareholders and adjusted for risk, based on the achievement of stretching performance measures.
Purpose and link to Element of pay strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics and period Variable pay To support a culture Any variable pay award made will The maximum level of award Any award made will be subject to award where good performance be delivered in the form of a longis subject to any limit on the future performance conditions over long-term against a full range of term incentive, paid in shares or in ratio of variable to fixed pay a minimum three year period.
incentive measures will be other instruments if required by as required by regulators.
To incentivise regulators and subject to a shareholder approval is Typical measures may fall under the delivery of stretching combination of time deferral and sought and obtained at the the following categories weighted targets in line with the performance-based requirements.
A 2014 AGM, this will be 200% 25% each : Strategic Plan.
The minimum three year performance of fixed pay i. e. base salary, Economic Profit selection of performance period will apply.
fixed share allowance, Relative Total Shareholder metrics will be closely benefits and pension.
For Return TSR aligned with Key As a minimum, shares will be these purposes awards will Safe and Secure Bank Performance Indicators.
subject to deferral and retention be valued in line with the Customers and People periods as required under the PRA European Banking Authority Performance is assessed Remuneration Code.
rules, including any available A financial and risk performance against a range of discount for long-term underpin provides discretion to vary financial and nonThe award will have an overall five deferral.
the vesting outcome if the financial measures to year vest period, vesting in equal Committee considers this does not encourage superior longtranches in years four and five.
Our intention is that awards reflect underlying performance.
term value creation for for executive directors will be shareholders.
Provision for clawback prior to and maintained at a maximum of These or similar measures and post vesting of awards.
300% of base salary in line weightings will be applied to reflect 1 Delivery in shares with with past practice.
the ability to clawback The award will be delivered under further supports longerthe RBS 2014 Employee Share The vesting level of the Details of the award and term alignment with Plan, subject to shareholder award could vary between performance measures for each shareholders.
0% and 100% dependent on year will be set out in the annual the achievement of report on remuneration.
Between 20% - 25% will vest at threshold for each performance measure.
Note: 1 In the event that shareholder approval is not sought or obtained for the 2:1 cap, corresponding adjustments will be made to ensure that executive directors remain within the variable to fixed limit.
70 Directors Remuneration Policy Other pay elements Performance Purpose and link to metrics and Element of pay strategy Operation Maximum potential value period Shareholding To ensure EDs build and A period of five years is allowed in which to build Group Chief Executive - N A requirements continue to hold a significant up shareholdings to meet the required levels.
shareholding to align Other EDs - 125% of salary.
Any unvested share awards are excluded in the calculation.
Requirements may be reviewed and increased in future.
All-employee An opportunity to acquire Opportunity to contribute from salary to the RBS Statutory limits imposed by N A share plans RBS shares.
Sharesave and Buy As You Earn Plan.
Legacy To ensure RBS can continue In approving this policy, authority is given to In line with existing In line with existing arrangements to honour payments due to honour any previous commitments or commitments.
arrangements entered into with current or former directors, including share awards granted under the 2010 Deferral Plan and 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and awards granted prior to appointment as an executive director that may have different performance conditions aligned with divisional performance.
Notes to policy table Changes for Executive Directors The Committee sets performance targets taking into account the EDs will no longer be eligible to receive annual bonuses.
Groups Strategic Plan, financial forecasts and wider non-financial metrics.
The performance conditions for variable pay awards made to The new structure outlined in the policy table introduces a fixed share EDs have been chosen to promote the building of a safer, stronger allowance for EDs which will be released in equal tranches over a and more sustainable business.
The Committee selects the five year period.
However, the Group Chief Executive will not receive measures each year after consultation with major shareholders.
Clawback - An accountability review process is operated that allows Future long-term incentive awards will be subject to an overall five the Committee to respond in instances where new information would year vest period, with a three year performance period and vesting in change the variable pay decisions made in previous years and or the equal tranches in years four and five.
decisions to be made in the current year.
As a result, clawback can be applied to reduce or lapse any unvested awards as well as The new structure results in a reduction of 16% of maximum reducing any current years variable pay.
The Committee will also remuneration opportunity, maintaining significant exposure to shares consider its approach to the operation of post vesting clawback in and clawback but with increased holding periods.
light of emerging market practice and regulatory requirements.
Further details can be found on page 89.
The policy reflects our objective of moderating total remuneration while providing strong alignment with shareholders over the longerRemuneration for EDs broadly follows the policy for all employees but term.
with greater emphasis on delivery in shares and a significant element of variable performance-related pay.
This is to ensure that total remuneration to EDs is more aligned with the long-term interests of shareholders and dependent on specific performance measures being met.
Further details on the remuneration policy for all employees can be found on page 88 and 89.
71 Directors Remuneration Policy Fees for non-executive directors Performance metrics Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and period Fees To provide a competitive level of fixed Fees are paid monthly.
The rates for the year ahead are N A remuneration that reflects the skills, set out in the annual report on experience and time commitment The level of remuneration for remuneration on page 82. required for the role.
non-executive directors reflects their responsibility and time Any future increases to fees will be No variable pay is provided so that commitment and the level of considered against non-executive non-executive directors can maintain fees paid to directors of directors at comparable companies appropriate independence, focus on comparable major UK and will not normally be greater long-term decision making and companies.
Non-executive than the average inflation rate over constructively challenge performance directors do not participate in the period under review, taking into of the executive directors.
any incentive or performance account that any change in plan.
Non-executive directors responsibilities, role or time fees are reviewed regularly.
commitment may merit a larger increase.
Fees have not yet been set for the recently established RCR Board Oversight Committee.
Our policy is that additional fees may be paid for new Board Committees provided these are not greater than fees payable for the existing Board Committees as detailed in the annual report on remuneration.
Benefits Any benefits offered would be in line Reimbursement of reasonable The value of the private medical N A with market practice.
out-of-pocket expenses incurred cover provided to the Chairman will in performance of duties.
The be in line with market rates and Chairman also receives private disclosed in the annual report on medical cover in line with the remuneration.
72 Directors Remuneration Policy Discretion Policy start date The Committee has certain discretions that allow it, in appropriate The remuneration policy will be effective from the date of the 2014 AGM, circumstances, to vary the remuneration provided to directors.
For subject to shareholder approval.
It is intended that the policy will apply for example, under the LTIP rules and also the proposed RBS 2014 three years unless changes are required in which case a revised policy Employee Share Plan, the Committee can determine: whether a leaver will be submitted to shareholders for approval.
would fall into circumstances that would allow awards to vest following leaving: to decide to vest earlier than the normal vesting date: and to vary Recruitment remuneration policy the pro-rating for time elapsed that would normally apply.
Such The approach to recruitment of directors is to consider both internal discretions would only be used in exceptional circumstances to ensure a and external candidates and to pay no more than is required to fair outcome for the director and for shareholders, taking into account the attract the most suitable candidate for the role.
circumstances of departure, the performance of the director and the need to ensure an orderly transition.
If discretion is applied in these The policy on the recruitment of new directors aims to structure pay circumstances then it will be disclosed.
in line with the framework and quantum applicable to current directors, competitive in a market context and including the Further discretions include the ability to: treat awards in a range of ways components detailed in the policy table, taking into account that in the event of a change of control: change measures, targets, and adjust some variation may be necessary to secure the preferred candidate.
awards if major events occur for example transaction and capital raisings : and make administrative changes to the plan rules.
Consideration will be given to the skills and experience held by the individual being recruited as well as the incumbents position.
The In addition, the Committee retains discretion to apply clawback to awards present circumstances of the company will also be taken into and also adjust the vesting outcome in relation to certain long-term account.
incentive awards through the application of a risk underpin.
This allows the Committee to reduce or lapse awards if it considers that the vesting In the event of an internal promotion, existing contractual outcome does not reflect underlying financial results or if it considers that commitments can continue to be honoured.
the results have been achieved with excessive risk.
Any awards granted on recruitment may be made as part of the Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the company companys share plans from time to time or under the provisions The Committee retains oversight of remuneration policy for all employees provided by Section 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules and will need to to ensure there is a fair and consistent approach throughout the comply with the requirements of the PRA Remuneration Code.
This includes the use of deferral and clawback to promote sign-on awards or payments will be offered over and above the effective risk management and alignment with shareholders.
Further normal buy-out policy to replace awards forfeited or payments details on our remuneration policy for all employees are set out on pages foregone.
The Committee will seek to minimise buy-outs wherever 88 and 89. possible and will seek to ensure they are no more generous than, and on substantially similar terms to, the original awards or While employees are not directly consulted on setting directors payments they are replacing.
remuneration, consultation on remuneration generally takes place with our social partners, including representatives from UNITE.
We continue The maximum level of variable pay which may be granted to new to pay our permanent employees in the UK at or above the Living Wage executive directors is the same as that applicable to existing benchmarks National and London, and intend to apply for full executive directors, excluding any buy-out arrangements.
An annual employee opinion survey takes place which executive directors do not receive variable pay.
Full details will be includes a number of questions on pay and culture.
This includes disclosed in the next remuneration report following recruitment.
questions as to whether employees believe they are paid fairly for the work they do, how remuneration at RBS compares to other financial services organisations and how good a job the organisation is doing in matching reward to performance.
Around 34,000 of our employees are shareholders through incentive and all-employee share plans and have the ability to express their views through voting on the Directors Remuneration Report.
73 Directors Remuneration Policy Service contracts and policy on payments for loss of office directors Provision Policy Details Payments for loss Payment in lieu of If either party wishes to terminate an executive directors service contract they are required to give 12 of office notice only months notice to the other party.
The service contracts do not contain any pre-determined provisions for compensation on termination.
The service contracts give RBS the discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice, which is on base salary only with no payment in respect of any other benefits, including pension and is released in monthly instalments.
During the period when instalments are being paid, the executive director must take all reasonable steps to find alternative work and any remaining instalments will be reduced as appropriate to offset income from any such work.
Treatment of Treatment in line with Existing annual incentive awards under the Deferral Plan will not normally lapse on termination, unless annual and longthe relevant plan rules termination is for Cause as defined in the rules of the Deferral Plan.
The awards will normally continue term incentives on as approved by to vest on the original vesting dates, subject to provisions regarding clawback, competitive activity and termination shareholders detrimental activity.
Existing long-term incentive awards normally lapse on leaving unless the termination is for one of a limited number of specified good leaver reasons or the Committee exercises its discretion to prevent lapsing.
The Committee may exercise this discretion where it believes this is an appropriate outcome in light of the contribution of the participant and shareholders interests.
Where awards do not lapse on termination, any vesting will normally take place on the original vesting dates, subject to the performance conditions being met and pro-rating to reflect the proportion of the period that has elapsed at the date of termination.
Clawback provisions will also apply.
These provisions will also apply to variable remuneration delivered under the RBS 2014 Employee Share Plan, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
Fixed share Treatment in line with Any shares already received under fixed share allowances will not be forfeited on termination but must allowances the plan rules as continue to be held for the original retention periods.
In leaver circumstances executive directors will also approved by be eligible to receive a pro-rated fixed share allowance.
shareholders Other provisions Standard contractual Contracts include standard clauses covering remuneration arrangements and discretionary incentive terms in line with plans as set out in the main policy table above, reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses market practice incurred in performance of duties, redundancy terms and sickness absence, the performance review process, the disciplinary procedure and terms for dismissal in the event of personal underperformance or breaches of RBS policies.
Other payments Discretionary The Committee retains the discretion to make payments including but not limited to professional and outplacement fees to mitigate against legal claims, subject to any payments being made pursuant to a settlement or release agreement.
Provisions for nonNEDs do not have service contracts or notice periods although they have letters of engagement reflecting executive directors their responsibilities and time commitments.
No compensation would be paid to any NED in the event of NEDs and the termination of appointment.
Group Chairman Arrangements for the Chairman Philip Hampton is entitled to receive a cash payment in lieu of notice of 12 months fees in the event that his appointment is terminated as a result of the majority shareholder seeking to effect the termination of his appointment, or if RBS terminates his appointment without good reason, or if his re-election is not approved by shareholders in General Meeting resulting in the termination of his appointment.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the company stand for annual election or re-election by shareholders at the companys Annual General Meetings.
74 Directors Remuneration Policy Illustration of the potential application of the remuneration policy Shareholders views and their impact on remuneration policy An extensive consultation is undertaken every year with major shareholders including UKFI and other stakeholders on our remuneration approach.
The consultation process typically involves inviting our largest shareholders to attend either one-to-one meetings or roundtable sessions with relevant shareholder bodies.
A range of topics are discussed including intended remuneration policy for the year ahead and any significant changes.
The process takes place in sufficient time for shareholder views to be considered prior to the Committee making any final decisions on remuneration and variable pay awards.
Details of shareholder voting on the resolution to approve the last remuneration report can be found in the annual report on remuneration.
In late 2013 and early 2014, meetings took place involving around 20 institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies representing a substantial portion of the non-UKFI shareholding.
The topics discussed during the latest consultation included financial performance, determination of pay outcomes for the 2013 performance year, the Board changes, the impact of CRD IV and possible pay arrangements going forward.
Shareholders asked wide-ranging questions including the ability to remain market competitive, the accountability review process, retaining and motivating employees through periods of change and the use of performance measures for long-term incentive awards.
The reaction to the consultation process was positive and allowed the Committee to gain valuable insight into areas that shareholders were likely to support and those areas of concern.
There was general support for the possible use of role-based allowances for the small number of employees impacted by the cap imposed under CRD IV.
Payment of any allowances in arrears, with delivery in shares for more senior roles and with deferral, were viewed as positive features.
Many shareholders also welcomed the discontinuation of annual bonus arrangements for executive directors but stressed the need to ensure sufficient variable pay was available for performance adjustment and clawback.
The move to a five year overall timeframe for future long-term incentive awards was also viewed favourably.
Overall, there was continuing support for simple and transparent pay structures.
Salary Benefits Pensions delivered in cash.
The benefits include A number of shareholders cautioned that legal advice should be obtained standard benefit funding as outlined in the policy but exclude to confirm that the proposed pay arrangements complied with the exceptional items such as relocation allowances, the value of which requirements of CRD IV.
The Committee responded to these concerns by will be disclosed in the total remuneration table each year.
Another theme from shareholders was that there should be a demonstrable reduction in remuneration to Fixed share allowance an allowance of 100% of salary, paid in reflect the benefits of pay certainty for the participants.
shares and released in equal tranches over a five year period.
Some shareholders asked for the level of reduction in total compensation Target Fixed remuneration and assuming payout of long-term opportunity and rationale to be clearly explained.
As set out in this report, incentive vesting at 45% of maximum 135% of salary.
annual bonus awards have been discontinued for executive directors.
A fixed share allowance will be introduced that will deliver up to 100% of Maximum Fixed remuneration and assuming full payout of longsalary in shares to be released in equal tranches over a five year period.
term incentive vesting at 300% of salary.
The new structure results in a reduction of 16% of maximum remuneration opportunity and still maintains alignment in shares and with The graphs above illustrate the application of policy to executive longer holding periods.
directors for the first full year as the Group Chief Executive will not receive a fixed share allowance in 2014.
Shareholders continue to play a vital role in developing remuneration practices that support the long-term interests of the business and the The charts shown above are for illustration only and do not take into Committee is grateful and greatly encouraged by their involvement in the account any share price movement.
Any value receivable in respect of process.
long-term incentive awards will depend on performance over the period and the share price when the holding period comes to an end.
75 Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration Total remuneration paid to directors The sections as indicated on pages 76 to 81 have been audited by the company's auditor, Deloitte LLP.
Total remuneration for executive directors 000s audited Former directors Current directors Stephen Hester 1 Bruce Van Saun 2 Ross McEwan 3 Nathan Bostock 3 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Salary 900 1,200 570 750 250 191 Benefits 4 20 26 74 134 40 7 Pension 315 420 348 436 88 67 Annual bonus 980 LTIP 5 Total remuneration 1,235 1,646 992 2,300 378 265 Notes: 1 Stephen Hester stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2013 and did not receive any annual bonus entitlement for the 2013 performance year.
See page 79 for details of termination arrangements and payment in lieu of notice.
2 Bruce Van Saun stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2013 to become CEO and Chairman of RBS Citizens Financial Group and Head of RBS Americas.
Mr Van Saun also stepped down as a non-executive director of Direct Line Insurance Group plc and Worldpay Ship Midco Limited, for which he did not receive any fees.
He is a non-executive director of Lloyds of London Franchise Board for which he received fees of 51,750 for the period to 30 September 2013.
"The amounts included in the table in respect of Mr Van Saun's pension relates to contributions that would have been made to his Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme ""UURBS"" if it had been funded comprising a pension allowance of 35% of salary, together with additional amounts through a salary sacrifice arrangement plus an investment return at a rate of 4.7% for 2013 6.2% for 2012."
3 Ross McEwan and Nathan Bostock were appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013 and the table reflects their pay for the period as Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director respectively since appointment.
4 Benefits figure includes standard benefit funding of 26,250 per annum with the remainder being relocation expenses provided to Bruce Van Saun housing allowance and Ross McEwan housing and flight allowances.
5 The zero value reflects awards granted to executive directors under the Long-term Incentive Plan in 2010 that did not vest in May 2013.
See page 78 for details of subsequent LTIP assessments.
Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration 000s audited Remuneration of non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, was reviewed in 2013.
Basic board fees were last increased in 2008 and Committee fees were last increased in 2010.
It was recognised that time commitment at RBS had increased significantly over the period.
This increased time commitment was due to a number of factors including an intense regulatory agenda, the extended remit of Board Committees, wider engagement with the business and the executive team and efforts to drive cultural change.
Consideration was also given to evidence of market increases in Board fees over the period.
For the current non-executive directors, the Board, excluding non-executive directors, approved a revised fee structure applicable from 1 April 2013 as set out on page 82.
Board and Benefits and 2013 2012 Committee fees other fees Total Total Philip Hampton 1 750 1 751 750 Sandy Crombie 186 186 150 Alison Davis 132 132 114 Tony Di Iorio 2 136 136 128 Robert Gillespie 3 7 7 n a Penny Hughes 154 154 150 Brendan Nelson 164 164 150 Baroness Noakes 136 136 124 Philip Scott 164 164 150 Former non-executive directors Joe MacHale 4 49 49 133 Art Ryan 5 80 80 93 Notes 1 Philip Hampton is entitled to private medical cover and the value is shown in the benefits column.
2 Tony Di Iorio became a non-executive director of RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc on 15 January 2014, the fees for which will be reported in future years.
3 Robert Gillespie was appointed to the Board with effect from 2 December 2013.
4 Joe MacHale retired from the Board with effect from 14 May 2013.
Board Committee fee included membership of the Asset Protection Scheme Senior Oversight Committee.
5 Art Ryan is a non-executive director of RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc. for which he received fees of US$131,000 for the period to 30 September 2013, the date he retired from the Group Board.
There have been no payments made to non-executive directors for loss of office.
76 Annual report on remuneration Total Pension Entitlements Bruce Van Saun audited Mr Van Saun's UURBS operates as a cash balance plan.
The rate of return on the accrued fund is determined annually by the Committee to reflect a long-term low risk investment return on an unsecured basis.
His accrued entitlement at the year end is shown below.
There is no provision for any additional benefit on early retirement.
2013 2012 000s 000s Balance at 1 January 2013 682 246 Aggregate contributions that would have been made if funded 306 408 Investment return 42 28 Total value of fund at 31 December 2013 1,030 682 Executive directors annual bonus for 2013 audited The normal maximum that could be paid to executive directors under the annual bonus arrangements for 2013 is 200% of salary.
The table below sets out the outcome for the 2013 performance year.
Stephen Hester As part of the exit arrangements detailed on page 79, no annual bonus award is payable to Stephen Hester for 2013.
Bruce Van Saun As announced on 27 January 2014, no bonus award will be payable to executive directors or members of the 2013 Executive Committee in respect of 2013 performance.
Ross McEwan Ross McEwan indicated he did not wish to be considered for an annual bonus in respect of his Group Chief Executive role in 2013 or 2014.
As announced on 27 January 2014, no bonus award will be payable in respect of the UK Retail role that Mr McEwan undertook during 2013.
Nathan Bostock Following announcement of his departure, no annual bonus is payable to Nathan Bostock.
Executive directors LTIP awards granted in 2010 final assessment of performance outcome audited Performance measure Performance requirements Vesting outcome Economic profit Maximum vesting triggered by early delivery of Core business profitability, well ahead of The LTIP awarded in 2010 was due 50% the range implied by the published Strategic Plan targets and also in excess of the cost to vest in May 2013.
shares under award is set out in the table on page 80.
Relative TSR 20% vesting if TSR is at the median rising to 100% vesting if TSR is at the upper quartile 25% of the companies in the comparator group.
Awards did not vest in May 2013 as Absolute TSR 20% vesting if RBS share price reaches 5.75. a result of the threshold performance 25% 100% vesting if RBS share price reaches 7.75. requirements not being met and the awards lapsed.
Share plan interests awarded under the LTIP during 2013 audited Number of Face value of shares % that would vest at Performance Grant date award 000 awarded threshold and maximum requirements Conditional share awards subject to stretching performance Stephen Hester 8 March 2013 3,600 1,164,295 Vesting between conditions over a three year period ending on the third anniversary of 0% - 100% with the grant date, as detailed below.
Bruce Van Saun 8 March 2013 2,250 727,685 20% - 25% vesting at The LTIP award granted to Ross McEwan will be assessed based on Ross McEwan 8 March 2013 2,153 696,152 threshold 12 months against the targets applicable as CEO UK Retail and 24 Nathan Bostock 8 March 2013 2,500 808,539 months against the targets applicable as Group Chief Executive.
Notes: The number of shares awarded is based on a multiple of salary and the award price is calculated based on the average share price over five business days prior to the grant date of 3.092 In addition to performance conditions, all awards are subject to clawback provisions prior to vesting and a six month retention period post vesting in line with the PRA Remuneration Code.
The treatment of outstanding LTIP awards held by Stephen Hester is detailed under the Payments for loss of office section.
The LTIP award held by Nathan Bostock has been lapsed following notification that he will be leaving the Group.
77 Annual report on remuneration Performance conditions for outstanding LTIP awards granted to executive directors in 2011, 2012 and 2013 current assessment Awards are due to vest in 2014 to 2016.
An assessment of performance of each relevant element is provided by the control functions and PwC assesses relative TSR performance.
The Committee determines overall vesting based on these assessments including consideration of the drivers of performance and the context against which it was delivered.
The assessment is analytical and if any discretion is used in the final assessment, it will be explained.
The table below represents an early indication of potential vesting outcomes only.
2011 LTIP Current 2012 and 2013 LTIP Performance assessment of Current assessment of measure Weighting Rationale Vesting performance performance Core Bank 25% Ensures that Threshold: 25% vesting for meeting Continued difficult conditions Excluding the impact of economic profit performance minimum economic profit targets.
mean that the economic the 2013 RCR action reflects risk profit target has not been performance is currently adjusted enduring Maximum: 100% vesting for met.
broadly in line with earnings.
performance ahead of the Strategic expectations.
Committee notes the impact of the RCR impairment and will determine at the point of vesting how this should be taken into account.
Relative TSR 25% Ensure alignment Threshold: 20% vesting if TSR is at Based on share price Based on share price with shareholders.
median of the comparator group.
performance up to 31 performance up to 31 Maximum: 100% vesting if TSR is at December 2013, the December 2013, the upper quartile of the comparator group.
threshold target is unlikely to threshold targets have be met by the vesting date.
Pro rata vesting in between.
Balance sheet 25% Ensure alignment Vesting will be qualified by Committee All targets including NonMajority of Balance Sheet and risk with the discretion.
Indicative vesting levels are: Core run down, Core Tier 1 and Risk measures are advancement of capital, wholesale funding, currently on track or the strategic Over half of objectives not met: liquidity, leverage ratio, loan ahead of target.
position and 0%: to deposit ratio and funded capability of the assets - have been met or Cost:income ratio organisation and Half of objectives exceeded.
Credit rating remains challenging to the building of a met: 25%: condition was not met, but achieve largely due to Strategic 25% sustainable given over-achievement on market-driven income Scorecard business.
Two-thirds of objectives met: other measures, the pressures.
Positive 62.5%: and Committee determined that performance to date on the Balance Sheet and Risk some of the other Objectives met or exceeded in all element would vest in full.
measures would result in For the Strategic Scorecard, some level of vesting for the cost:income ratio target this element if continued has been missed driven by over the performance income shortfall.
Committee determined that fewer than half of the objectives have been met and also took into account the extent of the shortfall on cost:income ratio and determined that this element should not vest.
In respect of the 2011 LTIP award which is due to vest on 7 March 2014, the latest performance assessment by the Committee indicates a vesting level for executive directors of 27% of the original number of shares under award.
The Committee also received advice that BRC and the Groups risk management function is satisfied that risk performance of the Group has adversely impacted the Economic Profit and TSR outcomes and consequently no further adjustment is required to the proposed vesting level.
78 Annual report on remuneration Payments to past directors audited The Committee exercised discretion under the LTIP rules to allow No payments were made to former directors during the year ended 31 unvested awards to continue subject to time pro-rating and performance December 2013. assessment.
The Committee believed this was an appropriate use of discretion in the circumstances recognising the significant contribution Payments for loss of office audited made by Stephen Hester over the period and his willingness to assist in Stephen Hester an orderly handover period.
The performance conditions will be assessed Stephen Hester stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2013 by the Committee at the end of the relevant performance periods in line and, in line with his contractual arrangements, he received the following with the LTIP rules.
Stephen Hester and the Committee agreed that the payments in lieu of 12 months notice.
maximum number of shares available for vesting under outstanding LTIP awards would be capped at 65% after the application of time pro-rating.
Salary 1,200,000 The maximum number of shares available for vesting is therefore as Benefits 26,244 follows: Pension 420,000 Total 1,646,244 Unvested LTIP shares at departure 3,461,886 Shares remaining after time pro-rating 2,064,638 Stephen Hester also received payment in lieu of five days accrued Max number of time pro-rated shares capped at 65% 1 1,342,014 holiday, a nominal amount 100 in respect of an undertaking to provide Note: ongoing assistance to RBS with any investigations or claims and a 1 The actual number of shares will depend on performance assessment and may be less.
commitment to pay directly to his lawyers legal fees of 23,000 VAT incurred in connection with his departure.
He did not receive any annual Bruce Van Saun bonus award for 2013.
Bruce Van Saun stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2013 and became CEO and Chairman of RBS Citizens Financial Group and Head of RBS Americas.
He continues to be employed within RBS and therefore no termination payment was made in connection with this change of role.
Directors interests in shares and shareholding requirements audited The target shareholding level for the Group Chief Executive is 250% of salary and 125% of salary for other executive directors and members of the Executive Committee, in each case excluding any unvested share awards in the calculation.
A period of five years is allowed in which to build up shareholdings to meet the required levels.
As at 31 December 2013 or date of cessation if earlier Value 1 % of shareholding Unvested LTIP awards subject Unvested Deferral Plan Shares beneficially owned requirement met to performance conditions awards Stephen Hester 761,218 2,740,385 91% 2,064,638 Bruce Van Saun 148,421 501,663 49% 2,163,680 466,947 Ross McEwan 516,336 1,745,216 70% 1,259,081 56,395 Nathan Bostock 375,969 1,270,775 133% 2,151,234 289,536 Philip Hampton 27,630 n a n a Sandy Crombie 20,000 n a Alison Davis 20,000 n a Tony Di lorio 2 30,000 n a Robert Gillespie nil n a Penny Hughes 562 n a Joe MacHale 28,431 n a Brendan Nelson 12,001 n a Baroness Noakes 21,000 n a Art Ryan 5,000 n a Philip Scott 50,000 Notes: 1 Value is based on the share price at 31 December 2013, which was 3.38 other than for Stephen Hester where the value is based on the share price of 3.60 at 30 September 2013, the date he stepped down from the Board.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the share price ranged from 2.66 to 3.85.
2 Tony Di Iorios interests in the companys shares are held in the form of American Depository Receipts ADRs.
Each ADR represents 2 ordinary shares of 1.00 each in the company.
Tony Di Iorio has interests in 15,000 ADRs representing 30,000 ordinary shares In line with the requirements of the PRA Remuneration Code and the RBS Staff Dealing Rules, executive directors must not engage in any personal hedging strategies to lessen the impact of a reduction in value of unvested share awards, for example if the RBS share price goes down.
No other current director had an interest in the company's ordinary shares during the year or held a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the company at 31 December 2013, at 1 January 2013 or date of appointment if later.
The interests shown above include connected persons of the directors.
As at 26 February 2014, there were no changes to the directors' interests in shares shown in the table above.
79 Annual report on remuneration Directors interests under the Groups share plans audited Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards Awards to executive directors under the LTIP are structured as conditional rights to receive shares and are subject to performance conditions and clawback provisions prior to vesting.
The actual number of shares will depend on the performance assessment and may be less.
2 Stephen Hester and Bruce Van Saun stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2013.
3 Ross McEwan and Nathan Bostock were appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013.
4 This relates to an award made to Ross McEwan on joining RBS as CEO UK Retail in September 2012, in recognition of awards forfeited on leaving Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
5 In accordance with the plan rules, Nathan Bostocks outstanding LTIP, Deferred awards and MPP award have subsequently been lapsed and the Executive Share Option will lapse on his final date of employment.
6 This relates to a bonus award in respect of the 2012 performance year, awarded in March 2013.
80 Annual report on remuneration Share options Options held at Options held Number of Option 31 December 2013 at 1 January options price 2013 or date of Share Plan appointment if later lapsed in 2013 Number Exercise period Nathan Bostock 5 Executive Share Option Plan 207,467 4.62 207,467 17.08.12 16.08.19 Sharesave Plan 3,556 3,556 4.34 211,0233,556 207,467 Medium-Term Performance Plan MPP Scheme interests nil cost option at 1 January 2013 or Awards Scheme interests End of period for date of appointment Award price exercised in share equivalents qualifying conditions if later 2013 at 31 December 2013 to be fulfilled Nathan Bostock 5  For the notes to this table refer to the previous page.
Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The graph below shows the performance of RBS over the past five years in terms of TSR compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The TSR for FTSE UK banks for the same period has been added for comparison.
The TSR for the company and the indices have been rebased to 100 at 1 January 2009.
Source: Datastream Historic Group Chief Executive pay over same period 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Group Chief Executive single figure 1,647 3,687 1,646 1,646 1,235 SH of total remuneration 000s 378 RM Annual variable award 0% 85% 0% 0% 0% SH against max opportunity 0% RM LTIP vesting rates 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% SH against max opportunity 0% RM Note: 1 Stephen Hester SH stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2013 and Ross McEwan RM became Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 October 2013.
Change in Group Chief Executive pay compared to employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration for the Group Chief Executive between 2013 and 2012 compared with the percentage change in the average remuneration of RBS employees on a global basis.
In each case, remuneration is based on salary, benefits and annual bonus.
The Group Chief Executive remuneration reflects the change in remuneration arrangements for the new Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 October 2013 compared to the previous Group Chief Executive.
Salary Benefits Annual Bonus 2013 to 2012 change 2013 to 2012 change 2013 to 2012 change Group Chief Executive 16.7% All employees 2.1% 2.1% 16.6% Note: 1 No bonus was paid to the Group Chief Executive in respect of 2012 or 2013 performance.
Standard benefit funding for executive directors remained unchanged between 2012 and 2013.
The benefits for the Group Chief Executive excludes the relocation expenses provided to Ross McEwan as part of his recruitment as CEO UK Retail in 2012 and which will last for a set three year period other than an entitlement to two return business class flights which applies from year three onwards.
The value of relocation benefits will be disclosed each year in the total remuneration table.
81 Annual report on remuneration Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows a comparison of remuneration expenditure against other disbursements.
2013 2012 m m change Remuneration paid to all employees 1 6,371 7,231 12% Distributions to holders of ordinary shares Distributions to holders of preference shares 398 301 32% Taxation and other charges recognised in the income statement: - Social security and other payments 2 486 562 14% - Bank levy 200 175 14% - Corporation tax 382 441 13% Other payments made by the Group - Irrecoverable VAT and other indirect taxes suffered by the Group 3 714 830 14% These measures have been included as they reflect the key stakeholders for the Group and the major categories of disbursements made by the Group to its key stakeholders, including its ordinary and preference shareholders and Governments in the Groups operational territories.
The amounts included above have been calculated in accordance with applicable accounting standards and reflect the amounts included in the Group Income statement and related Notes.
Notes: 1 Remuneration paid to all employees represents total staff expenses per Note 3 to the Financial statements, exclusive of social security and other staff costs.
2 Income statement charge for social security costs per Note 3 to the Financial Statements.
3 Input VAT and other indirect taxes unable to be recovered by the Group due to it being partially exempt.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 The information below sets out how RBS intends to implement the policy in 2014.
Executive directors Salary Benefits Pension Fixed Share Allowance 1 LTIP award Group Chief Executive 1,000,000 26,250 relocation benefits 3 35% of salary No award in 2014 300% of salary Group Finance Director 2 765,000 26,250 35% of salary 100% of salary 300% of salary Notes: 1 Fixed Share Allowance will be payable in arrears and the shares will be released in equal tranches over a five year period.
2 The search for a new Group Finance Director is underway and the remuneration package will be consistent with the recruitment policy as set out on page 73.
3 Relocation benefits include housing and flight allowances, the value of which will be disclosed each year in the total remuneration table.
Chairman and non-executive directors fees Chairman 750,000 Non-executive Director Group Board 72,500 Senior Independent Director 30,000 Membership of Group Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee, Group Performance and Remuneration Committee or Group Sustainability Committee 30,000 Additional fee to Chair the Group Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee, Group Performance and Remuneration Committee or Group Sustainability Committee 30,000 Membership of Group Nominations Committee 5,500 The non-executive directors do not receive any annual bonus payments or variable remuneration.
82 Annual report on remuneration 2014 Annual objectives for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director The executive directors annual objectives, as set out below, are approved by the Committee and reflect the Groups key strategic priorities.
The Board Risk Committee has approved the risk and control issues.
Note that, as described in the Remuneration Policy section of the report, no annual bonus awards will be payable to executive directors.
Nevertheless, the Committee believes that annual objectives are an important part of driving the business strategy and meeting agreed targets.
Core objectives Summary of objectives and targets 1 Customer & Stakeholder Customer Strategy and Experience - clearly articulate customer strategy: effective customer experience framework and 25% measurement approach.
Customer Relationships - develop stronger and deeper customer relationships.
Corporate reputation - enhance and support the companys reputation with all stakeholders.
Financial & Business Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio - deliver fully loaded Common Equity Tier 1 ratio in line with strategic targets, including Delivery 25% successful execution of RCR reduction.
Return on Equity 2 - improve return on equity in line with strategic targets.
Cost:Income Ratio 2 - reduce cost:income ratio in line with strategic targets.
People & Culture 25% Operating Model - deliver first phase of efficient and effective bank-wide operating model.
Values & Engagement - embed and role model the Groups values, setting the tone from the top, and building the pride and engagement of our people.
Diversity - promote gender diversity in senior talent pools.
Risk & Control 25% Risk Appetite - further progress on embedding enhanced risk appetite and risk frameworks.
Governance & Control - maintain an effective governance and control environment and deliver key systems and processes.
Conduct - embed the agreed conduct risk framework across the business.
End to End Risk Management Framework - maintain an effective risk management framework across the business.
Notes: 1 Details of targets that are deemed to be commercially sensitive will be disclosed retrospectively.
83 Annual report on remuneration LTIP awards granted in 2014 Performance criteria Safe & Secure Bank 25% In line with previous practice, awards granted to executive directors in The Safe & Secure Bank measures have a particular focus on risk March 2014 will be subject to four equally weighted performance reduction and the building of a safer, sustainable franchise.
The key categories, each of which can vest up to 100% of base salary subject to measures in this category are Core Tier 1 ratio and Cost Income ratio.
an overall cap of 300% of salary.
The performance targets have been reviewed by the Committee and reflect the outcome of the Groups Customers & People 25% strategic review.
In future years, long-term incentive awards will be made These measures reward management for building a customer-focussed under the RBS 2014 Employee Share Plan on the basis of equally franchise with strength in terms of efficiency, reputation and the stretching measures following consultation with major shareholders and engagement of employees.
Net Promoter Score will be used as the disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
A minimum three year primary bank-wide measure for the improvement in customer service, performance period will apply.
Any awards that vest will be subject to a measured versus each segments defined peer group.
Employee minimum six month retention period in line with the PRA Remuneration engagement will be measured against the Global Financial Services Code.
Economic profit 25% Performance measures and weightings The Economic Profit measure will be based on the go-forward RBS Safe & Secure Bank Core Tier 1 ratio 12.5% business to align with the long-term future and earnings for the business.
measures 25% Cost:Income ratio 12.5% Economic Profit, being a risk-adjusted financial measure, is consistent Customers & People Net Promoter Score 12.5% with the PRA Code and also provides a balance between measuring measures 25% Employee Engagement Index 12.5% growth and the cost of capital employed in delivering that growth.
Economic Profit is defined as Operating Profit after Tax and preference Commentary will be provided on an annual basis in relation to progress share charges less attributed equity multiplied by the cost of equity, against the targets, where these are not commercially sensitive.
where Operating Profit after Tax is Operating Profit taxed at a standard tax Target ranges will be set for each measure, and will determine vesting, rate.
although the overall vesting under the Safe & Secure Bank and Attributed Equity is defined as equity allocated to the businesses, Customers & People categories will be qualified by Group Performance calculated as a function of the businesses risk-weighted asset base.
and Remuneration Committee discretion taking into account changes in Current Cost of Equity is 11.0%, which is subject to review at least circumstances over the performance period, the margin by which annually.
individual targets have been missed or exceeded, and any other relevant factors.
Details of the actual targets, and performance against these, will be disclosed retrospectively once the awards vest.
Risk underpin and clawback The Committee will also review financial and operational performance Relative Total Shareholder Return 25% against the business strategy and risk performance prior to agreeing The relative TSR measure provides a direct connection between vesting of awards.
In assessing this, the Committee will be advised executive directors awards and relative performance delivered to independently by the Board Risk Committee.
If the Committee considers shareholders.
The measure compares performance against a group of that the vesting outcome calibrated in line with the performance comparator banks.
The comparator group has been changed for the 2014 conditions outlined above does not reflect underlying financial results or if awards to be more in line with the new strategic direction of RBS.
This the Committee is not satisfied that conduct and risk management during has involved removing from the comparator group non-European firms, the performance period has been effective, then the terms of the awards which in particular reduces the exposure of the peer group to US and allow for an underpin to be used to reduce vesting of an award, or to Markets activity.
allow the award to lapse in its entirety.
All awards are subject to clawback.
Relative TSR Comparator Group Weighting 1 Barclays 200% 2 Lloyds Banking Group 3 HSBC 100% 4 Standard Chartered BBVA, BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole, Credit Suisse 5 to 13 Group, Deutsche Bank, Santander, Societe Generale, 50% UBS, Unicredito 20% of the award will vest if TSR is at the median of the companies in the comparator group 100% of the award will vest if TSR is at the upper quartile of the companies in the comparator group 84 Annual report on remuneration Consideration of matters relating to directors remuneration Third quarter The role and responsibilities of the Committee Half year performance reviews for members of the Groups Executive The Committee is responsible for setting the policy on remuneration and and Management Committees.
It reviews performance and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of variable incentive pools and Presentation from Retail on business and strategic priorities and the remuneration arrangements of the executive directors.
No director is people plans.
involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
Areas of focus for remuneration strategy.
The Committee is also responsible for approving remuneration and severance arrangements for members of the Groups Executive and Purpose, Vision & Values and reward issues presentation.
Management Committees and overseeing arrangements for PRA Code Staff.
Details of the PRA Remuneration Code can be found at Consideration of the future shape of pay.
A definition of RBS Code Staff along with Fourth quarter details of how risk is taken into account in the remuneration process is 2013 preliminary variable pay pool discussions for Group and provided on pages 88 and 89.
The terms of reference of the Group Performance and Remuneration Remuneration Policy Statement for the PRA.
Committee are available on www.
com and these are reviewed at least annually by the Committee and approved by the Board.
Update on Group Internal Audits review of Code Staff processes.
Summary of the principal activity of the Committee during 2013 The Committee considered issues under the accountability review Share plan rules review update and AGM considerations.
process at every meeting held in 2013 and CRD IV implementation at the majority of meetings held in 2013.
Set out below is a summary of other Update on shareholder consultation undertaken in December 2013 key activities considered by the Committee.
First quarter Performance evaluation process 2012 performance reviews and arrangements for members of the A thorough internal review of the effectiveness of the Group Performance Groups Executive and Management Committees, APS in scope and Remuneration Committee was conducted during 2013 involving employees, Code Staff and high earners.
2013 objectives for the questionnaires and follow-up interviews.
The Committee considered the Groups Executive and Management Committee members.
outcomes of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the evaluation has been conducted.
Approval of Group and Divisional variable pay pools and Directors Remuneration Report.
The review concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
Themes that emerged from the evaluation included Outcomes of the annual performance evaluation of the Committee.
recognition of the Committee workload and time spent outside of meetings, the ongoing importance of independence, management Assessment of the performance to date of unvested LTIP awards and support and interaction with other Board Committees.
Priorities that were performance targets for 2013 awards.
identified for 2014 included recruiting an additional member of the Committee and considering how to streamline the agenda to maintain Consideration of long-term incentive and deferral structure.
rigorous scrutiny and challenge on key issues.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board.
Second quarter Group Chief Executive departure terms and consideration of Membership of the Group Performance and Remuneration appointment and remuneration terms for various senior positions.
Committee All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Presentations from Markets, Corporate and Ulster Bank on business The Committee held nine scheduled meetings in 2013 and a further and strategic priorities and people plans.
Attended Review of the implementation of the remuneration policy.
scheduled Penny Hughes Chair 9 9 Review of the Committees agenda planner, Terms of Reference and Sandy Crombie 9 9 delegated authorities for individual remuneration governance.
Alison Davis 9 9 Art Ryan 1 7 7 Terms of Reference for Group Sales and Service Incentives Note: Committee which considers short term incentive design principles.
1 Art Ryan stepped down from the Committee on 30 September 2013 85 Annual report on remuneration Advisers to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Statement of Shareholding Voting The advisers are appointed independently by the Committee, which The table below sets out the voting by shareholders on the advisory reviews its selection of advisers annually.
The Committee Chair oversees resolution to approve the Directors 2012 Remuneration Report at the the fees for the advisers.
 LLP PwC were AGM held in May 2013. appointed as the Committees remuneration advisers on 14 September For Against Total votes cast Withheld 2010 following a review of potential advisers, and their appointment was 20,058,440,088 138,246,040 20,196,686,128 148,371,848 reconfirmed by the Committee in July 2013 after an annual review of the 99.32% 0.68% quality of the advice received and fees charged.
PwC are signatories to the voluntary code of conduct in relation to remuneration consulting in the Shareholder dilution UK.
During the ten year period to 31 December 2013, awards made that could require new issue shares under the company's share plans PwC also provide professional services in the ordinary course of represented 4.2% of the company's issued ordinary share capital business including assurance, advisory, tax and legal advice to RBS including the B share capital, leaving an available dilution headroom of subsidiaries.
The Committee Chair is notified of other work that is being 5.8%.
The company meets its employee share plan obligations through a undertaken by PwC and is satisfied that there are processes in place to combination of new issue shares and market purchase shares.
ensure that the advice the Committee receives is independent.
As well as receiving advice from PwC in 2013, the Committee took account at meetings of the views of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Human Resources Director, Head of Reward, the Group Secretary and the Chief Risk Officer.
The fees paid to PwC for advising the Committee in relation to directors remuneration are Penny Hughes charged on a time cost basis and in 2013 amounted to 190,465.
Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 26 February 2014 86 Other Remuneration Disclosures Remuneration of eight highest paid senior executives below Board 1 All figures shown below are in GBP.
000s Executive 1 Executive 2 Executive 3 Executive 4 Executive 5 Executive 6 Executive 7 Executive 8 Fixed remuneration 639 1,352 700 199 463 415 189 350 Annual incentives Long-term incentive awards vested value 983 978 407 56 114 Total remuneration 2  Notes 1 Remuneration earned for period worked in 2013 at RBS for members of Group Executive Committee plus Group HR Director.
2 Disclosure includes prior year long-term incentive awards which vested during 2013.
The amounts shown reflect the value of vested awards using the share price on the day the awards vested.
87 Other Remuneration Disclosures Our Group-wide Remuneration Policy The remuneration policy supports the business strategy and is designed to: Attract, retain, motivate and reward high-calibre employees to deliver long-term business performance within acceptable risk parameters: and Provide clear alignment between annual and long-term targets for individuals and strategic plans The remuneration policy applies the same principles to all employees including Code Staff 1.
The current key principles underpinning the remuneration policy for all employees are set out below.
Element of pay Objective Operation Base salary To attract and retain employees Base salaries are reviewed annually and should reflect the talents, skills and by being competitive in the competencies that the individual brings to the business.
specific market in which the individual works.
Role-based allowance To provide fixed pay that From 2014 onwards, allowances will be provided to certain employees in key roles and reflects the skills and reviewed at appropriate intervals, to reflect the skills, experience and competencies experience required for, and the required for the role.
They will be delivered in cash and or shares depending on the level responsibilities of, the role.
of the allowance and the seniority of the recipient.
Shares will be subject to an appropriate retention period, not less than six months.
Benefits To provide a range of benefits In most jurisdictions, employee benefits or a cash equivalent are provided from a flexible including pension and give employees an benefits account.
opportunity to provide for their retirement.
Annual incentives To support a culture where The annual incentive pool is based on a balanced scorecard of measures including employees recognise the customer, financial, risk and people measures.
Allocation from the pool depends on importance of serving divisional, functional and individual performance.
Individual performance assessment is customers well and are supported by a structured performance management framework.
Guaranteed awards are only used in very limited circumstances in accordance with the PRA Remuneration Code.
Immediate cash awards are limited to a maximum of 2,000.
Under the deferral arrangements a significant proportion of annual incentive awards for our more senior employees are deferred over a three year period.
Deferred awards are subject to clawback.
For Code Staff, a minimum 50% of any annual incentive is delivered in the form of RBS shares and subject to an additional six month retention period post vesting.
Under the deferral arrangements for the 2013 performance year, the vast majority of any annual incentive award to Code Staff is delivered in shares.
In certain circumstances, formulaic short-term incentive arrangements are used to align the objectives of employees with the strategy of the relevant division in which they work.
Long-term incentive To encourage the creation of RBS provides certain employees in senior roles with long-term incentive awards.
awards value over the long term and to Awards are structured as performance-vesting shares.
Vesting may occur after a three align further the rewards of the year period and will typically be based partly on divisional or functional performance and participants with the returns to partly on performance across the business.
The amount of the award that vests may vary between 0-100% depending on the performance achieved.
All awards are subject to clawback and an additional six month retention period applies to Code Staff post vesting.
Other share plans To offer employees in certain Employees in certain countries are eligible to contribute to share plans which are not jurisdictions the opportunity to subject to performance conditions.
Note: 1 The following groups of employees have been identified as meeting the PRAs criteria for Code Staff: - Members of the Board and Executive and Management Committees - Staff performing a Significant Influence Function within RBS - Employees who have approval authorities such that their decision-making could have a material impact on the income statement - Employees who are responsible for a business or businesses whose performance could have a material impact on the income statement: and - Key control function roles The RBS Staff Dealing Rules and the conditions attaching to discretionary share-based awards prohibit the use of any personal hedging strategies to lessen the impact of a reduction in value of such awards.
88 Other Remuneration Disclosures How risk is reflected in our remuneration process Accountability review process The RBS remuneration policy explicitly aligns remuneration with effective Our Accountability Review process is an important tool in how we risk management.
Focus on risk is achieved through clear risk input into manage remuneration and manage adjustments to remuneration.
objectives, performance reviews, the determination of variable pools and incentive plan design as well as the application of clawback.
The A summary of the accountability review process is as follows: Committee is supported in this by the Group Audit Committee, the Board Exists to enable RBS to respond in instances where current and or Risk Committee and the Groups risk management function.
new information would change the annual bonus and or LTIP decisions made in previous years, and or the decisions to be made A robust process is used to assess risk performance.
A range of in the current year.
measures are considered, specifically the overall Risk Profile, Credit, Regulatory Risk & Conduct Risk, Operational Risk, Enterprise Risk and The process for review assessments which consider material risk Market Risk.
The steps we take to ensure appropriate and thorough risk management, control and general policy breach failures, adjustment are also fully disclosed and discussed with the PRA and the accountability for those events and appropriate action against FCA.
individuals is operated across divisions and functions.
Variable pay pool determination Divisional reviews are undertaken on a quarterly basis.
The process for determining variable pools is discretionary, to avoid the unintended consequences of formulaic systems.
However, the Decisions must take into account not only any financial losses, but Committee's discretion is applied within a structured framework which also behavioural issues and reputational or internal costs.
starts with an assessment of risk adjusted financial performance measured against budget, prior year capital position and long-term Clawback may be up to 100% of unvested awards and can be strategic plans.
This analysis is used to adjust for performance and then applied regardless of whether or not disciplinary action has been consider outcomes in the context of competitive variable pay funding undertaken.
A key principle is that clawback quantum should not be formulaic.
Risk is taken into account in the performance assessment through a thorough risk analysis carried out by the Groups risk management Collective responsibility may be considered where a committee or function to a pre-agreed framework.
Performance assessments may be group of employees are deemed to have not appropriately adjusted in situations where risk performance is outside risk appetite or discharged their duties.
Financial and non-financial performance factors including risk are taken into account in developing a final variable pay How have we applied this in practice?
This decision also allows for considerations of market Variable pay is subject to deferral allowing the Committee scope to apply competitiveness and franchise protection.
The accountability review process is fully embedded and is operated throughout the year.
During 2013 a number of issues and Variable pay proposals are reviewed in the context of key compensation events were considered under the accountability review framework.
framework ratios including total compensation to revenue, total compensation to pre-compensation profit, variable pay to pre-variable The outcomes for the 2013 performance year cover a range of actions pay profit and variable pool to pre-variable pool economic profit.
These and have included: forfeiture of unvested awards through clawback: ratios help to ensure appropriate sharing of value between employees reduction of current year variable pay awards: dismissal: and suspended and shareholders and aim to provide transparency.
The Board Risk Committee concluded that all known key material events had been considered.
Finally, variable pay proposals are reviewed against our capital adequacy framework to ensure that regulatory requirements are met.
The RBS 2014 Employee Share Plan, subject to approval at the 2014 AGM, will allow RBS to apply post-vesting clawback to future awards.
The policy for any post-vesting clawback will be considered in light of emerging regulatory requirements and shareholder best practice.
Remuneration Code As part of the annual remuneration governance process we provide details of our approach to pay and how we comply with the Remuneration Code to the PRA and FCA.
As in previous years we have received the required regulatory confirmation in order to conclude our year end remuneration process.
89 Other Remuneration Disclosures Notes on the presentation of remuneration Code Staff Remuneration Disclosure In the relevant tables above, assumptions have been made for the These disclosures are in accordance with the Prudential sourcebook for notional value of LTIP verified by external advisors, forfeitures through banks, building societies and investment firms BIPRU 11.5.
18 6 and resignation for deferred awards and the share price relevant to the date 7. of the event or valuation point has been used.
Aggregate remuneration expenditure All staff total remuneration During the year, there were 342 Code Staff.
Aggregate remuneration Total remuneration comprises: fixed pay, pension and benefit funding, expenditure was as follows: variable remuneration and long-term incentives.
Markets Rest of RBS Group m m The average salary for all employees is 34,000.
78.5 135.0 21,609 employees earn total remuneration between 50,000 and 2.
Amounts and form of fixed and variable remuneration 100,000.
9,151 employees earn total remuneration between 100,000 and Fixed remuneration 250,000.
Consisted of salaries, pensions and benefits paid during the year.
1,730 employees earn total remuneration over 250,000.
Senior management Others m m Total remuneration by band for all employees earning Number of 56.9 42.9 1 million employees 1,000,000 - 1,500,000 46 Variable remuneration for 2013 performance 1,500,001 - 2,000,000 14 Consisted of deferred awards payable over a three year period.
Cash 2,000,001 - 2,500,000 4 awards were limited to a maximum of 2,000 per employee.
2,500,001 - 3,000,000 4 Senior 3,000,001 - 3,500,000 management Others Form of remuneration m m 3,500,001 - 4,000,000 4 Variable remuneration cash 0.2 0.2 4,000,001 - 4,500,000 1 Deferred remuneration bonds 2.4 2.6 4,500,001 - 5,000,000 1 Deferred remuneration shares 31.1 51.7 5,000,001 - 5,500,000 5,500,001 - 6,000,000 1 Long-term incentives Long-term incentive awards made each year are paid three years after Notes: 1 Total remuneration includes fixed pay, pension and benefit funding and variable pay the date of award based on the extent to which performance conditions including actual value of LTIP vesting in respect of the performance period ending 2013 are met and can result in zero payment.
after the application of clawback.
Senior management Others m m 75 employees earn total remuneration of over 1 million which represent 18.5 6.9 just 0.06% of our employees.
This number reduces to 68 employees if we exclude pension and benefit funding.
Outstanding deferred remuneration through 2013 The table below includes deferred remuneration awarded or paid out in These employees include those who manage major businesses and 2013.
Deferred remuneration reduced during the year relates to long-term functions with responsibility for significant assets, earnings or areas of incentives lapsing when performance conditions are not met, long-term strategic activity and can be grouped as follows: incentives and deferred awards forfeited on leaving and clawback of prior year deferred awards and long-term incentives.
The CEOs responsible for each division.
Senior Employees directly reporting to the CEO including those managing management Others Category of deferred remuneration m m our functions and other activities of strategic importance.
Unvested from prior year 110.0 131.7 Employees managing large businesses within a division such as our Awarded during the financial year 47.9 57.6 Retail and Commercial Businesses in the US or our UK Corporate Paid out 33.0 59.4 and Institutional Banking clients.
Reduced from prior years 16.8 28.6 Income generators responsible for high levels of income including Unvested at year end 107.8 98.2 those involved in managing trading activity and supporting clients with more complex financial transactions, including financial 4.
Sign-on and severance payments restructuring.
Sign-on awards for guaranteed variable remuneration of 2.6 million are Those responsible for managing our balance sheet and liquidity and included in the tables above.
These relate to commitments on funding positions across the business.
recruitment made in respect of three new employees.
No severance Employees managing the successful disposal of Non-Core assets payments were made outside of contractual payments related to and reducing RBSs capital requirements.
termination of employment such as pay in lieu of notice and benefits.
90 Compliance report Statement of compliance The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, the company has complied with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council dated September 2012 the Code except in relation to provision D. 2.2 that the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors.
The company considers that this is a matter which should rightly be reserved for the Board and this is an approach the company has adopted for a number of years.
Remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors is first considered by the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee which then makes recommendations to the Board for consideration.
This approach allows all non-executive directors, and not just those who are members of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee, to participate in decisions on the executive directors and the Chairmans remuneration and also allows the executive directors to input to the decision on the Chairmans remuneration.
The Board believes this approach is very much in line with the spirit of the Code and no director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
We do not anticipate any changes to our approach on this aspect of the Code.
Information on how the company has applied the main principles of the Code can be found in the Corporate governance report on pages 35 to 90.
A copy of the Code can be found at www.
uk The company has also implemented the recommendations arising from the Walker Review.
The company has also complied in all material respects with the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees issued in September 2012.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, specific standards of corporate governance and business and financial disclosures apply to companies with securities registered in the US.
The company complies with all applicable sections of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Internal control The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control that is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard to the nature and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or losses.
The Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the Group, which operated throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 and to 26 February 2014, the date the directors approved the Report and Accounts.
This is confirmed by a semi-annual Control Environment Certification process which requires senior members of the executive and management to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of their internal control framework and the compliance of their business with Group policies and associated standards in accordance with the Group Policy Framework, and they meet the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and the Code Section C2.
The policies that govern these processes, and reports on internal controls arising from them, are regularly reviewed by the Board and meet the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
Enhancements have been made to the Risk Management framework throughout 2013 and further improvements will be made in 2014.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal controls is reviewed regularly by the Board, the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance to the Board and executive management on the quality and effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal controls to monitor, manage and mitigate risks in achieving the Groups objectives.
Executive management committees or boards of directors in each of the Groups businesses also receive regular reports on significant risks facing their business and how they are being controlled.
In addition, the Board receives monthly risk management reports.
Details of the Groups approach to risk management are given on pages 29 and 30 of the Strategic Report.
The Group Audit Committee has received confirmation that management has taken, or is taking, the necessary action to remedy any material failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of the Group framework of controls.
The Groups independent auditors present to the Group Audit Committee reports that include details of any significant internal control matters which they have identified.
The system of internal controls of the authorised institutions and other regulated entities in the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Additional details of the Groups regulatory oversight are given in the Supervision section on page 520.
91 Compliance report Internal control over financial reporting The Group is required to comply with Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013.
The Group assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013 based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control - Integrated Framework'.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of 31 December 2013, the Group's internal control over financial reporting is effective.
The Group's auditors have audited the effectiveness of the Group's internal control over financial reporting and have given an unqualified opinion.
Management's report on the Group's internal control over financial reporting will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the same time as the Annual Report on Form 20-F. Disclosure controls and procedures As required by US regulations, management have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness and design of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as defined in the Exchange Act rules as at 31 December 2013.
Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.
Changes in internal control There was no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.
The New York Stock Exchange As a foreign issuer with American Depository Shares representing ordinary shares, preference shares and debt securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange the NYSE, the company is not required to comply with all the NYSE standards applicable to US domestic companies the NYSE Standards provided that it follows home country practice in lieu of the NYSE Standards and discloses any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from the NYSE Standards.
As a foreign private issuer, the company must, however, comply fully with the provisions of the NYSE Standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
These provisions incorporate the relevant rules concerning audit committees of the Exchange Act.
The company has reviewed its corporate governance arrangements and is satisfied that these are consistent with the NYSE Standards, with the exception that the Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Group Nominations Committee, which is permitted under the Code since the Chairman was considered independent on appointment.
In addition, although the members of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee are deemed independent in compliance with the provisions of the Code, the Group Board has not assessed the independence of the members of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee and of its compensation committee advisers in accordance with the independence tests prescribed by the NYSE standards.
The companys Group Audit, Board Risk, Group Sustainability and Group Nominations Committees are otherwise composed solely of non-executive directors deemed by the Group Board to be independent.
In addition, the NYSE Standards require that a compensation committee has direct responsibility to review and approve the Group Chief Executives remuneration.
As stated at the start of this Compliance report, in the case of the company, the Group Board, rather than the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee, reserves the authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Audit Committee complies with the provisions of the NYSE Standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
In April 2013, the company submitted its required annual written affirmation to the NYSE confirming its full compliance with those and other applicable provisions.
More detailed information about the Group Audit Committee and its work during 2013 is set out in the Group Audit Committee report on pages 52 to 57.
This Compliance report forms part of the Corporate governance report and the Report of the directors.
92 Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the audited accounts for For 2014, the Board has decided to continue partially neutralising the the year ended 31 December 2013.
Core Tier 1 impact of Group hybrid capital instruments.
It is expected that 300 million of new equity will be issued during the course of 2014 to Group structure achieve this aim.
The company is a holding company owning the entire issued ordinary share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the principal direct Business review operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group comprises Activities the company and all its subsidiary and associates, including the Royal The Group is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking Bank and NatWest.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the and other financial services.
Further details of the organisational structure company are shown in Note 8 on page 505. and business overview of the Group, including the products and services provided by each of its divisions and the competitive markets in which Following placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April 2009, they operate, are contained in the Business review on pages 104 to 106.
HM Treasury HMT owned approximately 70.3% of the enlarged ordinary Details of the strategy for delivering the companys objectives can be share capital of the company.
In December 2009, the company issued a found in the Strategic report.
further 25.5 billion of new capital to HMT.
This new capital took the form of B shares, which do not generally carry voting rights at general Risk factors meetings of ordinary shareholders but are convertible into ordinary The Groups future performance and results could be materially different shares and qualify as Core Tier 1 capital.
Following the issuance of the B from expected results depending on the outcome of certain potential risks shares, HMTs holding of ordinary shares of the company remained at and uncertainties.
Certain risk factors the Group faces are summarised in 70.3%, although its economic interest rose to 84.4%.
the Business review on pages 107 and 108.
Fuller details of these and other risk factors are set out on pages 523 to 536.
At 31 December 2013, HMTs holding in the companys ordinary shares was 63.9% and its economic interest was 80.2%.
The reported results of the Group are also sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its Results and dividends financial statements.
Details of the Groups critical accounting policies The loss attributable to the ordinary and B shareholders of the company and key sources of accounting judgments are included in Accounting for the year ended 31 December 2013 amounted to 8,995 million policies on pages 386 to 389. compared with a loss of 6,055 million for the year ended 31 December 2012, as set out in the consolidated income statement on page 370.
The Groups approach to risk management, including its financial risk management objectives and policies and information on the Groups The company did not pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2012 or 2013. exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk, is discussed in the Business review:risk and balance sheet management.
On 26 November 2009, RBS entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed with HMT containing commitments and undertakings that were designed Financial performance to ensure that HMT was able to comply with the commitments to be given A review of the Group's performance during the year ended 31 December by it to the European Commission for the purposes of obtaining approval 2013, including details of each division, and the Group's financial position for the State aid provided to RBS.
As part of these commitments and as at that date is contained in the Business review on pages 109 to 168. undertakings, RBS agreed not to pay discretionary coupons and dividends on its existing hybrid capital instruments for a period of two RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. years.
This period commenced on 30 April 2010 for RBS Group In 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. which was jointly owned by the Group, the instruments and ended on 30 April 2012: the two year deferral period for Dutch State successor to Fortis and Santander together, the RBS Holdings N. V. instruments commenced on 1 April 2011 and ended Consortium Members completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding on 1 April 2013.
N. V. The Group has now resumed payments on all discretionary non-equity On 1 April 2010, the businesses acquired by the Dutch State were capital instruments.
Future coupons and dividends on hybrid capital transferred to ABN AMRO Group N. V. itself owned by the Dutch State.
In instruments will only be paid subject to, and in accordance with, the terms connection with the transfer ABN AMRO Holding N. V. was renamed RBS of the relevant instruments.
Holdings N. V. and its banking subsidiary was renamed The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. RBS N. V..
In the context of prior macro-prudential policy discussions, the Board decided to partially neutralise any impact on Core Tier 1 capital of coupon In October 2011, the Group completed the transfer of a substantial part of and dividend payments in respect of 2013 Group hybrid capital the UK activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank.
Substantially all of the instruments through equity issuances of c. 300 million.
Consequently Netherlands and EMEA businesses were transferred to the Royal Bank in during the year, approximately 255 million was raised through the issue September 2012.
Russia, Korea and the North American businesses of new ordinary shares and a further 44 million was raised in connection were transferred to the Royal Bank in 2013.
Certain assets of RBS N. V. with equity funding of employee incentive awards through the sale of continue to be shared by the Consortium Members.
surplus shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust.
93 Report of the directors Business divestments Strategic review To comply with the European Commission State Aid requirements the In November 2013, the Group announced that it was undertaking a Group agreed a series of restructuring measures to be implemented over comprehensive business review of its customer-facing businesses, IT a four year period from December 2009.
These include the divestment of and operations and organisational and decision making structures.
As Direct Line Insurance Group plc DLG, the sale of 80.01% of the Groups described on pages 8 and 9, the Group has announced the results of its Global Merchant Services business completed in 2010 and the sale of Strategic review, resulting in it being realigned into three businesses: substantially all of the RBS Sempra Commodities joint venture business Personal & Business Banking, Commercial & Private Banking, and largely completed in 2010, as well as the divestment of the RBS branchCorporate & institutional Banking.
In addition, the Group will be based business in England and Wales and the NatWest branches in rationalising and simplifying its systems, based on a target architecture Scotland, along with the direct SME customers across the UK UK with improved resilience.
Employees In October 2012, Santander UK plc withdrew from its agreed purchase of As at 31 December 2013, the Group employed 118,600 full-time the UK branch-based businesses.
In September 2013, the Group equivalent basis throughout the world.
Details of employee related costs reached an agreement with an investor consortium led by Corsair Capital are included in Note 3 on the consolidated accounts.
and Centerbridge Partners for an investment in these businesses ahead of a stock market flotation.
This includes 308 RBS branches in England The Group operates certain employee share plans in which eligible and Wales and 6 NatWest branches in Scotland.
The new bank will be employees are able to participate and which align the interests of called Williams & Glyn, the brand RBS used for its branches in England employees with those of shareholders.
Employee learning and development The Group sold a first tranche of ordinary shares representing 34.7% of The Group maintains a strong commitment to providing all its employees the ordinary issued share capital of Direct Line Group DLG in October with the opportunity to grow through learning and development, which in 2012 through an initial public offering.
On 13 March 2013, the Group sold turn helps to achieve business objectives and drive excellent customer a further 16.8% of the ordinary issued share capital in DLG and ceded service.
Supporting the professionalisation of our front line staff, just over control.
This fulfilled the Groups plan to cede control of DLG by the end 18,000 customer facing employees are now part of accreditation of 2013.
On 20 September 2013, the Group sold a further 20% of the programmes aligned to the Chartered Banker professional standards.
ordinary issued share capital in DLG.
This helps our employees deliver the best service to our customers whilst working towards a recognised professional standard.
On 26 February 2014 the Group announced that it had entered into a placing agreement to complete the sale of its remaining interest in DLG Employee communication except for 4.2 million shares held to satisfy long term incentive plan Employee engagement is encouraged through a range of communication awards granted by the Group to DLG management.
Accordingly, on channels, at both local and Group level.
These channels provide access settlement of the placing, the Group will have completed the disposal of to news and information in a number of ways, including the intranet, DLG as required by the European Commission.
magazines, video, team meetings led by line managers, briefings held by senior managers and regular dialogue with employees and employee Strategic plan representatives.
Citizens Financial Group In February 2013, the Group announced that it would commence work on The Group Chief Executive and other senior Group executives regularly a partial flotation of RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc and in November communicate with, and encourage feedback from, employees across a 2013 confirmed that a partial initial public offering is now planned for range of channels.
The Group intends to fully divest the business by the end of 2016.
The sale of RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc is the cornerstone of the Employee feedback Groups new capital plan.
The Group has appointed advisers and this is Every year since 1999, through the Your Feedback survey, employees in on schedule for later this year.
all our businesses have shared their thoughts about what its like working for RBS.
In 2013, we renamed the survey Our View, reflecting the RBS Capital Resolution emphasis we place on a shared responsibility to build a better bank.
The In November 2013, the Group announced the creation of RBS Capital survey enables the business to monitor levels of employee satisfaction Resolution RCR, to manage a pool of assets with particularly high long and engagement and how these compare with other companies.
It also term capital intensity and or potentially volatile outcomes in stressed provides a further mechanism for RBS to track employee perception of environments.
RCR became operational on 1 January 2014 with a the progress we are making in strengthening our culture.
Insights from portfolio of 29 billion assets.
The RCR Board Oversight Committee has Our View inform what the business needs to do to improve the way it been established to provide oversight of RCRs progress against, and works, whether its a local issue or something that affects everyone.
compliance with, its primary objective and asset management principles.
It reports to the Board on its own activities and recommends changes, where appropriate, to RCR strategy.
94 Report of the directors Employee consultation Wellbeing The Group recognises employee representatives such as trade unions Ensuring the wellbeing of employees is an important responsibility for the and work councils in a number of businesses and countries.
The Group has a European Employee Council that provides an A wide range of health benefits and services is in place to help opportunity for elected representatives and management to discuss employees maintain good physical and psychological health, and support developments in the Group's European operations.
them if they do become unwell.
We continue to enhance and promote these services, targeting those issues that we know affect our employee's Diversity and inclusion ability to bring the best of themselves to work.
In 2013, we made During 2013, the Group executive continued its commitment to making Lifematters, the Group's Employee Assistance Programme, even more workplace policies, processes and experiences inclusive for staff, accessible with the introduction of our Lifematters mobile App.
Code of conduct Inclusion is built into various policy areas and people management The code of conduct was fundamentally revised in 2013.
For example: the business continues to support disabled forms the character of our company and dictates how others see us.
"""Our persons, ensuring there are equal opportunities in recruitment, Code"" reflects our values and applies to everyone who works for RBS."
It employment, promotion and training.
lets everyone know what to expect of each other, what to do when unsure of a decision, and where to go for advice when needed.
The business also supports employee-led networks, with three being introduced this year relating to the areas of disability, multi-culturalism The code of conduct is available at rbs.
com sustainability governance and carers.
These new networks run alongside existing ones, such as reporting and engagement.
It will also be provided to any person without Focused Women and Rainbow, who provide personal and career charge, upon request, by contacting RBS Secretariat at the telephone development opportunities through networking and training events.
This commitment to inclusion extends to supporting and participating in Sustainability positive action programmes outside of the Group aimed at cultivating Sustainability at RBS means building our future on long term thinking that future leaders, including An Inspirational Journey and FTSE-100 crossfocuses on our customers and supporting the communities in which they company mentoring programmes.
The Group continues to maintain its live.
Our core duty is to be safe and strong.
This underpins everything involvement with external charitable networks and events such as that RBS does and enables people to run their daily lives and Manchester Pride.
This, in turn, supports economic growth and brings wider benefits to society.
The final strand to building a sustainable business This approach to inclusion also extends to the marketplace with the RBS centres on how we choose to operate and how we can go further to Women in Business specialists supporting and guiding more and more shape the world in a positive way.
women to take the step of starting their own business.
Sustainability is therefore not just about the many responsibilities and Performance on gender diversity is monitored and reviewed at Group and obligations that the Group has in a legal sense, but is about broad issues local level and RBS remains supportive of the recommendations of Lord that need to be addressed to ensure that the Group is a healthy and Davies Report.
There are currently three female directors on the Board respected business operating on a sustainable basis.
out of a total of eleven, which exceeds Lord Davies aspirational target of 25 per cent female Board representation.
Further information on The Group Sustainability Committee is responsible for overseeing and male female representation at various levels of employment in the Group challenging how management is addressing sustainability and reputation is included in the Strategic report on page 33. issues relating to all stakeholder groups and reports to the Board.
For more information on the Committee, see pages 64 and 65.
Further details on the Board diversity policy can be found at rbs.
For more information on our approach and progress read the RBS Sustainability Report, available on rbs.
This year the business has been recognised for its work on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion by achieving platinum ranking from Opportunity Greenhouse gas emissions Now gender, one of only a few organisations to achieve this: achieving Disclosures relating to greenhouse gas emissions are included in the Silver for Race for Opportunity race : and securing a position in the Strategic report on page 32.
95 Report of the directors Going concern Share capital The Groups business activities and financial position, the factors likely to Details of the ordinary and preference share capital at 31 December 2013 affect its future development and performance and its objectives and and movements during the year are shown in Note 26 on the policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its consolidated accounts.
capital are discussed in the Business review.
The risk factors which could materially affect the Groups future results are set out on pages 523 to During 2013, the company allotted and issued a total of 78.6 million new 536.
The Groups regulatory capital resources and significant ordinary shares of 1 each for the purposes of ensuring 2013 coupon developments in 2013 and anticipated future developments are detailed payments on discretionary hybrid capital securities were partly on pages 192 to 208.
The liquidity and funding section on pages 209 to neutralised from a Core Tier 1 capital perspective.
The shares were 226 describes the Groups funding and liquidity profile, including changes allotted to UBS AG at the subscription prices and determined by in key metrics, the build up of liquidity reserves and the outlook for 2014. reference to the average market prices during the sale periods set out below.
Having reviewed the Groups forecasts, projections and other relevant Number of Subscription Share price on evidence, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and shares sold price Sale period Gross proceeds allotment the company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 42,967,903 314.188p 3 May 2013 - future.
Accordingly, the financial statements of the Group and of the 17 July 2013 135 million 321.6p company have been prepared on a going concern basis.
20,473,967 341.898p 2 August 2013 - 12 September 2013 70 million 360.4p BBA disclosure code 15,091,674 331.309p 1 November 2013 - The Groups 2013 financial statements have been prepared in 9 December 2013 50 million 336.8p compliance with the principles set out in the Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure published by the British Bankers' Association in 2010.
The In addition, the company issued 53.7 million ordinary shares of 1 each in Code sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting connection with employee share schemes.
The principles are that the Group and other major UK banks will provide high quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures: Additional information review and enhance their financial instrument disclosures for key areas of Where not provided elsewhere in the Report of the directors, the following interest to market participants: assess the applicability and relevance of additional information is required to be disclosed by Part 6 of Schedule 7 good practice recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and importance of such guidance: seek to enhance the comparability of Reports Regulations 2008. financial statement disclosures across the UK banking sector: and clearly differentiate in their annual reports between information that is audited The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares and information that is unaudited.
and preference shares are set out in the companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in Corporate governance the UK or can be found at rbs.
The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Details are given in the Corporate governance report on pages 35 to 90.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder of The Corporate governance report and compliance report pages 91 and ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares present in person or 92 form part of this Report of the directors.
by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every holder of ordinary shares or cumulative preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have four votes for every share held.
The notices of Annual General Meetings and General Meetings specify the deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the meeting.
The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.015% of the total voting rights of the company, the remainder being represented by the ordinary shares.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA, certain employees of the company require the approval of the company to deal in the companys shares.
96 Report of the directors The rules governing the powers of directors, including in relation to Directors issuing or buying back shares and their appointment are set out in the The names and brief biographical details of the current directors are companys Articles of Association.
It will be proposed at the 2014 Annual shown on pages 39 to 42.
General Meeting that the directors be granted authorities to allot shares under the Companies Act 2006.
The companys Articles of Association Sandy Crombie, Alison Davis, Tony Di Iorio, Philip Hampton, Penny may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of Hughes, Brendan Nelson, Baroness Noakes and Philip Scott all served shareholders.
throughout the year and to the date of signing of the financial statements.
A number of the companys share plans include restrictions on transfers Joe MacHale and Art Ryan stepped down from the Board on 14 May of shares while shares are subject to the plans or the terms under which 2013 and 30 September 2013 respectively.
Stephen Hester and Bruce Van Saun stepped down from the Board on The rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative preference 30 September 2013. shares are set out in Note 26 on the consolidated accounts.
Ross McEwan and Nathan Bostock were appointed to the Board on 1 Except in relation to the Dividend Access Share, the company is not October 2013.
Nathan has since confirmed his resignation although his aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in leaving date is still to be agreed.
restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no persons holding securities carrying special rights with regard to control of Robert Gillespie was appointed to the Board on 2 December 2013. the company.
All directors of the company are required to stand for election or reUnder the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible employees are election annually by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
entitled to acquire shares in the company, and shares are held in trust for participants by The Royal Bank and Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Company Directors interests as Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to December 2013 are shown on page 79.
None of the directors held an the Trustee no vote is registered.
interest in the loan capital of the company or in the shares or loan capital of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the company, during the period The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee Share Trust, The Royal from 1 January 2013 to 26 February 2014.
Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Trust and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee Share Trust hold shares Directors indemnities on behalf of the Groups employee share plans.
The voting rights are In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies exercisable by the Trustees, however, in accordance with investor Act, Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions have been issued by protection guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees the company to directors, members of the Groups Executive and would take independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of Management Committees, PRA FCA Approved Persons and certain their shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
directors and or officers of the Groups subsidiaries.
Awards granted under the companys employee share plans may be met In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act, Qualifying Pension through a combination of newly issued shares and shares acquired in the Scheme Indemnity Provisions have been issued to all trustees of the market by the companys employee benefit trusts.
A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may cause a Post balance sheet events number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, alter Other than those matters detailed in Note 42 on the consolidated or terminate.
All of the companys employee share plans contain accounts, there have been no significant events between the year end provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and and the date of approval of these accounts which would require a change options may vest and become exercisable on change of control, subject to or disclosure in the accounts.
where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
97 Report of the directors Shareholdings Directors disclosure to auditors The table below shows shareholders that have notified the Group that Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: they hold more than 3% of the total voting rights of the company at 31 December 2013. a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and Solicitor For The Affairs of Her % of total Majestys Treasury as Nominee Number of shares % of share class voting rights millions held held for Her Majestys Treasury b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as Ordinary shares 3,964 63.9 63.9 a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information B shares non-voting 51,000 100 and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
On 8 January 2014, the Group was notified that Her Majestys Treasurys shareholding of ordinary shares as at 31 December 2013 represented This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with 63.9% of the total voting rights.
The decrease was as a result of a change the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act.
in the total voting rights.
Auditors Political donations The auditors, Deloitte LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in At the Annual General Meeting in 2013, shareholders gave authority office.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditors under Part 14 of the Companies Act, for a period of one year, for the will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
company and its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 100,000.
This By order of the Board authorisation was taken as a precaution only, as the company has a longstanding policy of not making political donations or incurring political expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words.
During 2013, the Group made no political donations, nor incurred any political expenditure in the UK or EU and it is not proposed that the Groups longstanding Aileen Taylor policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
Secretary Shareholders will be asked to renew this authorisation at the Annual 26 February 2014 General Meeting in 2014.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is registered in Scotland No.
SC45551 98 Statement of directors responsibilities This statement should be read in conjunction with the responsibilities of the auditor set out in their report on pages 366 to 369.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The directors are required by Article 4 of the IAS Regulation European Commission Regulation No 1606 2002 to prepare Group accounts, and as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 have elected to prepare company accounts, for each financial year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
They are responsible for preparing accounts that present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and the company.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report and Directors report incorporating the Business review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In addition, the directors are of the opinion that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Philip Hampton Ross McEwan Nathan Bostock Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 26 February 2014 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Philip Hampton Ross McEwan Sandy Crombie Nathan Bostock Alison Davis Tony Di Iorio Robert Gillespie Penny Hughes Brendan Nelson Baroness Noakes Philip Scott 99
