20 Board and committee activity increased significantly in 2013, with Governance a number of key strategic issues taking centre stage, and Board at a glance committees continued to play a crucial role in our governance framework, undertaking their complex work comprehensively and effectively supporting the work of the Board.
Conduct and culture have been key areas of focus throughout the year and our 2013 results reflect the impact that conduct related matters continue to have on financial and operating performance.
The Board fully supports our new values, which were launched in 2013 and focus on serving customers, working together, doing the right thing and thinking long term.
It is vital that the Board continues to set the tone from the top to drive essential cultural change and that our governance framework continues to evolve to support this and our key strategic changes.
These will be key priorities for the Board and its Committees in 2014.
Philip Hampton Chairman of the Board of directors Our Board considering stress scenarios and agreed For more detail of the operation of the The Board has 11 directors comprising the mitigants and identifying longer term committee please refer to the full committee Chairman, two executive directors and eight strategic threats to the Groups business report on pages 52 to 57. independent non-executive directors, one operations: of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
the allocation and raising of capital: and Board Risk Committee Biographies for each director and details of the preparation and approval of the RBS which Board Committees they are members annual report and accounts.
Provides oversight and advice to the Board of can be found in the Corporate governance on current and potential future risk exposures report on pages 39 to 42.
We conducted an internal evaluation of the of the Group and risk strategy.
It reviews effectiveness of the Board and its committees the Groups compliance with approved risk There were a number of changes to the in 2013, led by the Group Secretary.
The appetite and oversees the operation of the Boards composition during 2013, details evaluation has concluded that the Board is Group Policy Framework.
of which can be found in the Chairmans operating effectively but has identified some Statement on pages 22 and 23 and in the areas for improvement which we will focus on For more detail of the operation of the Corporate governance report on page 45. during 2014. committee please refer to the full committee report on pages 58 to 63.
The Board is the main decision making forum Our Board committees for the company.
It is collectively responsible Group Performance and for the long-term success of the company and Group Audit Committee Remuneration Committee is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
Assists the Board in discharging its Responsible for overseeing performance and responsibilities for monitoring the integrity the Groups policy on remuneration.
It also The Board has overall responsibility for the of the financial statements of the Group.
considers senior executive remuneration and following areas: It reviews the accounting policies, financial makes recommendations to the Board on the the establishment of strategy and reporting and regulatory compliance remuneration of executive directors.
consideration of strategic challenges: practices of the Group and the Groups the management of the business and system and standards of internal controls, For more detail of the operation of the affairs of the Group: and monitors the Groups processes for committee please refer to the full committee ensuring that risk is managed effectively internal audit and external audit.
report on pages 66 to 90. through the approval and monitoring of risk appetite: Governance at a glance 21 Board of directors and Executive Committee Board Executive Committee Chairman Ross McEwan Jon Pain Group Chief Executive Group Head of Conduct & Philip Hampton Regulatory Affairs Nathan Bostock Executive directors Group Finance Director David Stephen Ross McEwan Group Chief Risk Officer Rory Cullinan Nathan Bostock Chief Executive, Chris Sullivan Non-executive directors RBS Capital Resolution Group Chief Executive, Corporate Banking Sandy Crombie Robert Gillespie Suneel Kamlani Bruce Van Saun Senior Independent Co-Chief Executive, Markets Chairman & Chief Executive, Penny Hughes Director RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc and Les Matheson Brendan Nelson Head of RBS Americas Alison Davis Chief Executive, UK Retail Baroness Noakes Tony Di lorio Simon McNamara Philip Scott Group Chief Administrative Officer Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance As at the date of signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Aileen Taylor Group Nominations Committee Executive Committee UK Corporate Governance Code This is the first year that we are reporting Assists the Board in the selection and Supports the Group Chief Executive in under the new narrative reporting appointment of directors.
It reviews the managing the Groups businesses.
It reviews requirements which include the new Strategic structure, size and composition of the strategic issues and initiatives, monitors Report and changes in remuneration Board, and membership and chairmanship financial performance and capital allocations reporting.
Throughout the year ended 31 of Board committees.
and considers risk strategy, policy and December 2013, the company has complied management.
with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate For more detail of the operation of the Governance Code except in relation to committee please refer to the full committee RBS Capital Resolution RCR provision D. 2.2 that the Group Performance report on pages 50 and 51.
Board Oversight Committee and Remuneration Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting Group Sustainability Committee Provides oversight of RCRs progress against, remuneration for the Chairman and executive and compliance with, its primary objective and directors.
The company considers that this is a Responsible for overseeing and challenging asset management principles.
It reports to the matter which should rightly be reserved for the how management is addressing sustainability Board on its own activities and recommends Board.
Our statement of compliance with the and reputation issues relating to all changes, where appropriate, to RCR strategy.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code stakeholder groups, except where such is set out on page 91. issues have already been dealt with by other Board committees.
For more detail of the operation of the committee please refer to the full committee report on pages 64 and 65.
