46 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 COMMITTEE MEMBER KEY A Group Audit Committee B Board Risk Committee I Group Investment Committee N Group Nomination Committee R Group Remuneration Committee Denotes Chair of Committee Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 9 10 11 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 47 1.
MALCOLM LE MAY B, I, R Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Skills and experience: Martin was appointed Skills and experience: Kath Cates was Skills and experience: Malcolm Le May was as Chairman and Director in January 2013. appointed as a Non-Executive Director in appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Martin has considerable knowledge and September 2013.
She has over 20 years of March 2004.
Previous roles include CEO understanding of the financial services sector experience in global financial services and Investment Banking Europe at UBS, Deputy and Board experience.
Previous roles include until recently was Chief Operating Officer, CEO of ING-Barings and Morley Fund Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Wholesale Banking for Standard Chartered Management and President Europe at JER Audit Committee, Lloyds Banking Group plc, Bank.
Previous roles include 22 years at UBS.
Malcolm has significant experience 34 years at Deloitte LLP, 26 years of which Kath has gained a deep knowledge of control, of financial and investment management.
as Partner, Chairman of Deloitte LLP from governance and risk management, working External appointments: Non-Executive Director of 1995 to 2007 and a Director, Deloitte Touche in emerging markets and across different Pendragon plc, Provident Financial plc and Consultant to Ernst & Young LLP.
Tohmatsu from 1999 to 2007. sectors and cultures.
External appointments: Chairman of Great Portland External appointments: None currently held.
JOSEPH STREPPEL I, R Estates plc, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Ship Midco Limited, trading as Independent Non-Executive Director Worldpay and a Board member of the Financial Services 6.
EDWARD LEA A, B, N Trade and Investment Board.
Skills and experience: Jos Streppel was Senior Independent Non-Executive Director appointed as a Non-Executive Director 2.
STEPHEN HESTER B, I Skills and experience: Edward Lea was in October 2011 and has a comprehensive Group Chief Executive appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July understanding of the insurance market 2003 and was appointed Senior Independent Skills and experience: Stephen was appointed globally, extensive financial services expertise Director in January 2011.
Previous roles as Group Chief Executive and Director in and a good knowledge of international and include Finance Director of BUPA, ASDA February 2014.
Previous roles include Chief emerging markets.
Previous roles include and MFI, Chairman of Redbourn Group Executive Officer, The Royal Bank of Scotland Chief Financial Officer of Aegon until 2009, Limited, Director of McIntyre Care.
He has Group plc, 200813, where he led the largest Chairman of the Monitoring Committee extensive experience of financial management ever corporate restructuring and recovery of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and business development in quoted and programme: Chief Executive, British Land plc and Advisor to the Tilburg Centre of Finance.
from 2004 to 2008, Chief Operating Officer, External appointments: Chairman of KPN, Vice-Chairman External appointments: Director of Powertraveller Limited.
Abbey National plc and a number of senior of Van Lanschot, a Dutch private banking and asset management firm, Director of Arq Foundation, Chairman roles at Credit Suisse First Boston in London of Duisenberg School of Finance and Chairman of the and New York.
ALASTAIR BARBOUR A, B, I, N Advisory Board of the Royal Dutch Society of Actuaries.
experience in financial services and FTSE100 Independent Non-Executive Director 11.
JOHANNA WATEROUS CBE A, N, R companies with expertise in transforming Skills and experience: Alastair Barbour was Independent Non-Executive Director the performance of businesses.
appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Skills and experience: Johanna Waterous External appointments: Trustee of The Royal Botanic October 2011.
Alastair retired from KPMG Gardens, Kew Foundation.
was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2011.
In the last 20 years of his 36 in May 2008.
Previous roles include Chairman year career with the firm, in the UK and 3.
RICHARD HOUGHTON B, I of Tate Enterprises and over 20 years with overseas, he led their financial services team Group Chief Financial Officer McKinsey & Company, with roles including in Scotland with a primary focus on insurance Skills and experience: Richard was appointed Co-leader of the Global Marketing and and investment management.
Alastair Group Chief Financial Officer in June 2012.
Sales Practice and Leader of their UK has extensive experience in advising on Previous roles include Group CFO of Aspen Consumer Practice and the European accounting and financial reporting, corporate Insurance Holdings Limited, COO and Retail Practice.
Johanna brings deep governance and management issues in the CFO at RBS Insurance, Finance Director expertise on consumer behaviour, sales financial sector.
of Ulster Bank, Finance Director of Direct and marketing across multiple sectors.
External appointments: Non-Executive Director of Line and Accountant at Deloitte & Touche.
Phoenix Group Holdings, Standard Life European Private External appointments: Non-Executive Director He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Equity Trust plc, Liontrust Asset Management plc, CATCo of WM Morrison Supermarkets plc, Non-Executive Reinsurance Opportunities Fund Limited, The Bank of N. T. Director and Senior Independent Director of Rexam Accountants in England and Wales.
Butterfield & Son Limited a company listed in Bermuda PLC, Director of RBG Kew Enterprises Limited, External appointments: No external appointments and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Chairman of Sandpiper CI and Director of Shoppers to listed companies.
Drug Mart Corporation a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
HUGH MITCHELL N, R Chief Executive, UK and Western Europe Independent Non-Executive Director Skills and experience: Adrian was appointed Skills and experience: Hugh Mitchell was as an Executive Director in July 2011 having appointed as a Non-Executive Director been Chief Executive of the UK since in September 2012.
Hugh is the Chief September 2008.
Adrian is a qualified Human Resources and Corporate Officer management accountant and has been with of Royal Dutch Shell plc and a member of the RSA Group since 1989.
He was previously the Shell Executive Committee.
Hugh has the UK Chief Operating Officer with considerable experience in advising on HR responsibility for Claims, Sales and Service, and remuneration matters.
IT and Change across Personal and External appointments: Director of Shell International Limited, Shell Foundation and Shell Aircraft Limited.
Commercial lines, and prior to that he was Advisory roles held at The Centre for Advanced Human UK Director of Personal lines, leading the Resources at Cornell University Advisory Board, IMD launch of MORE TH N. Business School Advisory Board, Fellow of the National Academy of Human Resources USA and Honorary External appointments: Adrian is a Director of Employers Vice-President of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Liability Tracing Office and DKH Legacy Trust.
