50 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of LEADERSHIP the Board and senior executive management and determining the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, the Chairman, DIRECTORS Group General Counsel, and Group Company Secretary and senior The names of the directors together with their biographical executives.
and Committee membership details are set out on page 47.
The Board reviews, on an annual basis, a schedule of matters In addition, Noel Harwerth and John Maxwell served as directors reserved for the Board which includes the approval and regular until their resignation on 31 March 2013 and Simon Lee until his review of the long-term objectives, operating plans, overall risk resignation on 12 December 2013.
Stephen Hester was appointed appetite and commercial strategy for the development of the Group.
as a director and Group Chief Executive on 5 February 2014.
There is a standing agenda of items that is continually refreshed.
Details of the directors service contracts and terms of The Board sets annual objectives for the business in line with the appointment, together with their interests in the Companys shares, current Group strategy and monitors achievement of the Companys are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 69 objectives through regular reports which include updates from the to 93 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer Group With effect from 13 December 2013, on an interim basis the CFO on all material business matters.
The Board considers that the roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive were combined, information provided to the Board and its Committees is supplied with Martin Scicluna performing the role of Executive Chairman in a timely manner and is of an appropriate quality to enable it to following the resignation of the Group Chief Executive, Simon Lee.
This was a temporary measure until a new Group Chief Executive In addition to the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, was identified and appointed.
Until 12 December 2013 and from 5 each of its Committees have written terms of reference defining February 2014, the roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive their role and the authority delegated to them.
A summary of the were separate and complementary, with responsibilities clearly matters reserved for the Board and the terms of reference for each divided.
A summary of the role statements for the Chairman, Group Board Committee were reviewed in the year.
The terms of reference Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director are provided later are available on the Companys website www.
com in this report on page 51.
No one individual has unfettered powers termsofreference.
Further details on the principal duties of each of decision.
Board Committee can be found under the Board Committees section Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year commencing on page 60, in the Group Audit Committee Report term with an expectation that they will continue for at least a further on pages 64 to 68 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages three years.
They are nominated by the Group Nomination Committee 69 to 93. and subsequently approved by the Board, for election or re-election annually at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM for approval by shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association give the directors power to appoint and replace directors as required.
ROLE OF THE BOARD The primary responsibility of the Board is to oversee and provide effective leadership to ensure that it promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of the members as a whole.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls.
At least annually, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls and he overall corporate governance arrangements.
In support of this, reviews have been undertaken during the year by Group Internal Audit, PwC and KPMG.
The Board ensures that the Company maintains adequate accounting and other records and ensures compliance with statutory and other regulatory obligations.
In addition, any changes to the legal, financial and share capital structures of the Company and approval of any significant expenditure, material transactions and contracts, are reserved for the Board.
Following a review by PwC into the financial and regulatory reporting processes and controls within the Irish business, and Group oversight and controls of the Irish business, PwCs review described the Groups System of Governance and Control Framework, as appropriate in terms of structure and design for an international insurance group of this size and complexity, and elements of the frameworks design compared favourably across the market.
The PwC review concluded that there were no obvious indicators relating to the issues identified in the Irish business that were ignored, at either Regional or Group level, and neither external audit or independent reserve review during 2013 and prior years identified the specific issues that have led to the reported losses in the Irish business.
The PwC report made a number of recommendations which are being incorporated into assurance processes.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 51 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES SUMMARY OF ROLE STATEMENTS Role of Chairman Role of Group Chief Executive Responsible for: Responsible for: Leadership of the Board Developing targets and goals for the executive management of the Company Effectiveness of the Board Developing, recommending and presenting to the Board Ensuring provision of timely, accurate and clear information taking into account any threats or opportunities: Effectiveness and structure of the Boards Committees strategic plans Leading the annual evaluation of the Boards performance risk appetite for the business risk exposure Performance of Board Committees and individual directors Preparing detailed business plans for the Company and its major Agreeing training and development plans for each director subsidiaries, monitoring the performance of the Group, ensuring Tailored induction of new directors that objectives are achieved and business plans are implemented Succession planning and Board composition based on the within budget recommendations by the Group Nomination Committee To oversee, direct and control financial management and control Ensuring relevant objectives are established for the Group standards Chief Executive and his executive team Reviewing the organisational framework to ensure that policies Reviewing with the Group Chief Executive the overall relating to management selection, performance review, management performance of the Company and its development and change are appropriate senior executives Ensuring that management succession plans are in place Undertaking the role of ambassador for the Company, Identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals up to participating in the engagement and effective communication prescribed limits with the Companys stakeholders.
Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements of the relevant regulatory bodies Developing the Companys communications strategy to meet the needs of, and engage with all internal and external stakeholders Representing the Company in the industry and business community.
Has delegated authority, through the Groups Delegated Authority Framework, which defines the limits of expenditure.
From time to time additional authorities are delegated from the Board to cover specific matters as required.
Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Responsible for: Responsible for: Providing support to the Chairman in the delivery of his Challenging and agreeing the Groups strategy with executive responsibilities when required management Assisting in matters relating to Board evaluation Assessment of performance against Group Strategy Chairing the Group Nomination Committee when considering Participation on Board Committees.
Committee selection matters relating to the Chairman of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Group Nomination Committee based on skills and experience To be available to shareholders on matters which have not been resolved or are not appropriate to be dealt with by the Chairman, Meeting with the Chairman without Executive Directors Group Chief Executive or other Executive Director being present Holding meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Meeting with the Senior Independent Director without the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance.
Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance and other matters.
Further information on the individuals fulfilling these roles can be found on page 47.
52 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FOCUS OF THE BOARD DURING 2013 Strategy Review of insurance market and significant business Brand and marketing strategy developments Global Specialty Lines Strategic Corporate Review: focusing on strategic objectives, Telematics planning and implementation UK Personal Lines Key functional updates and developments UK Commercial Lines Review of regional strategies with presentations from Commencement of the business and strategic review management teams Corporate Responsibility strategy Financial Monthly review of performance for each business region Approval of the 201416 operational plan Review of profitability against plan Audit tender process Financial reporting and controls Significant transactions and contracts Review of the capital position against internal Preparation for Solvency II and external capital measures Reinsurance protection appetite Monitoring share price performance Investments appetite and performance Risk Approval of the Group Risk Appetite Conduct Risk Management Monitoring material claims and reinsurance matters Review of strategic and operational plan risk profiles and Controls Capital Risk Appetite Review of financial and regulatory reporting controls Group oversight and controls of the Irish business Governance Internal audit updates Review of Board evaluation Annual Directors and Officers Policy renewal update Regulatory compliance Investor reaction, analyst consensus and market sentiment UK Conduct update Results and AGM material Training and development The Board held 10 scheduled meetings during the year and five additional meetings.
During the year, one Board meeting was held overseas, affording the Non-Executive Directors an opportunity to gain further insight into the business, the local management team and the culture.
Where a director was not available to attend a meeting, where possible their views were canvassed by the Chairman prior to the relevant meeting and the Board informed of their opinions and observations.
Formal minutes recording the decisions of all Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to each director.
If a director objects to a particular decision this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
When considering matters such as the approval of financial statements and large operational contracts, the Board may delegate authority to a Committee to finalise and approve as required.
TIME SPENT ON BOARD AND BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE BOARD COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES Scheduled Board Additional Board A Strategy Meetings Attended Meetings Attended A B Financial 33% Martin Scicluna 10 10 5 5 C Risk Management D and Controls Alastair Barbour 10 10 4 5 15% D Governance Adrian Brown 10 10 5 5 1 Kath Cates 3 3 3 3 2 Noel Harwerth 3 3 0 0 Richard Houghton 10 10 5 5 Malcolm Le May 9 10 5 5 2 John Maxwell 2 3 0 0 B 22% Edward Lea 9 10 5 5 3 Simon Lee 9 10 3 3 C 30% Hugh Mitchell 10 10 4 5 Jos Streppel 10 10 5 5 Johanna Waterous 10 10 5 5 Notes: 1.
Kath Cates was appointed as a director with effect from 1 September 2013.
Noel Harwerth and John Maxwell ceased to be directors with effect from 31 March 2013.
Simon Lee ceased to be a director with effect from 12 December 2013.
Stephen Hester was appointed as a director with effect from 5 February 2014.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 53 INDUCTION, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT OF DIRECTORS EFFECTIVENESS Upon appointment to the Board and any Committee, directors undertake an induction programme, receiving a broad range of COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD information about the Company which is tailored to their existing Martin Scicluna became Chairman of the Group on 1 January 2013 and knowledge and experience.
This includes information on the for a short period between 13 December 2013 and 4 February 2014, operational performance and business of the Group, and details was Executive Chairman, following the resignation of Simon Lee on of Board procedures, governance matters and directors 12 December 2013, who had served as a director for seven years.
responsibilities, along with a series of meetings with members Noel Harwerth and John Maxwell who had served nine years, of the Board and executive management on business and regulatory resigned as directors with effect from 31 March 2013.
The Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary was appointed as a director with effect from 1 September 2013 is responsible for assisting the Chairman with arranging induction, and Stephen Hester was appointed as a director and Group Chief training schedules and professional development for the directors, Executive on 5 February 2014.
Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May have and for bringing all governance matters to the attention of the Board.
indicated that they do not intend to offer themselves for re-election Additionally, the Board receive briefings on matters which are at the 2014 AGM and will leave the Board after 11 and 10 years material to the Group on the financial and operational performance respectively as Non-Executive Directors on 8 May 2014. of the business and briefings on legislative and regulatory changes, In accordance with the Code, the Board believes that it has and on corporate governance matters affecting the Group.
the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and Each director has an individual training plan for the development knowledge to enable it, and its Committees to discharge their duties and enhancement of their specific business knowledge which is and responsibilities effectively.
The Board is satisfied that it is of a size subject to discussion with the Chairman.
The directors have access appropriate to the needs of the business and that no individual or to the services and advice of the Group General Counsel and small group of directors can dominate the Boards decision making.
Group Company Secretary, and in addition may take independent When appointing new directors, regard is given to the size of the professional advice at the expense of the Company in the furtherance Board, the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and the of their duties.
benefits of diversity, including gender.
The Board considers the skills, experience, independence and knowledge already represented when making decisions on new appointments, and ensures that succession As a new Non-Executive Director, the Company provided me with a planning processes are in place.
Each director is nominated by the comprehensive overview of all the key components of the business.
Coming Group Nomination Committee and subsequently approved by the from a financial services background outside the insurance sector, I requested Board for election or re-election annually at the Companys AGM deep-dives into many areas including reserving, reinsurance and a detailed for approval by shareholders.
run through the technical aspects of the different capital measures applied.
The Board reviews the membership of its Committees on an Meeting with external auditors as well as Group Internal Audit was annual basis to ensure they remain appropriate.
Further details on particularly valuable, and I was also able to attend a global Risk conference changes to Board Committee membership are contained in the to understand the framework and key issues.
The whole induction was relevant Committee report.
Only members of the Board Committees very thorough, and I now feel well-equipped to discharge my responsibilities are entitled to attend Committee meetings: however, the Committee as a member of the Board, the Board Risk Committee and the Group or its chairman may invite any directors, other executives of the Audit Committee.
Group or any external professional advisers to attend all or part of any meetings as and when required.
KATH CATES Non-Executive Director Directors induction programme A typical directors induction programme includes an update on the following business areas: Overview of each region and business function Claims Meetings with the individual Board and Executive Group Secretariat Committee members Regulatory Compliance Overview from each of the Board Committees Capital Corporate governance structure Internal Audit Group Operations, Risk and Underwriting Global Specialty Lines Reinsurance and Professional Specialty Insurance.
Broker Business HR IT and e-business Plus additional tailored meetings and training depending on the individuals skills and experiences.
54 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Following the completion of the review, the Board received a COMMITMENT The letters of appointment for the Chairman and each of the discussion document outlining an independent view of the Boards strengths and future challenges.
Boardroom Review also discussed Non-Executive Directors set out the anticipated time commitment, being an average of two days per week for the Chairman and 2832 the findings of the evaluation individually with each director, the Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary and the days per year for Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of Deputy Group Company Secretary, and the performance of each Committee and director with the Chairman.
The document offered the role, in attending Board and Committee meetings and the AGM.
In addition, directors may be required from time to time to attend observations and recommendations for consideration, which were the subject of an initial discussion by the Board at their January 2014 additional meetings, training and briefings.
Martin Scicluna is also Chairman of Great Portland Estates plc, meeting for incorporation into the way the Board will operate during 2014 and beyond.
The specific comments were as follows: was appointed as a director of Ship Midco Limited, trading as Worldpay, on 31 October 2013, and as a member of the Financial While the relatively small size of the Board encourages an intimate Services Trade and Investment Board on 23 September 2013.
The debate and fast decision making, the review noted that the desire Board is satisfied that these commitments are not a constraint on for a small Board should not limit the pool of expertise around the the Chairmans time or his ability to carry out his duties.
Between Board table, or inhibit the extent of diverse constructive dissent 13 December 2013 and 4 February 2014, the Chairman undertook and criticism.
It would be helpful if future Non-Executive Directors the role of Executive Chairman, which combined the role of Chairman added to the Board had an in-depth and specific experience of the and Group Chief Executive until a replacement Group Chief Executive general insurance sector and an understanding of the fundamental was appointed.
Upon his appointment as Executive Chairman, the changes taking place across platforms, geographies, clients and Board confirmed that due to the interim nature of the appointment, customers.
The Board was encouraged to consider what lessons they were satisfied that Martin Sciclunas external commitments could be learnt from their, and managements, handling of recent would not restrict him from effectively performing this role.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors should allocate Stephen Hester, Richard Houghton and Adrian Brown, Executive time to discuss the risks emerging from culture and strategy, Directors of the Company, do not hold outside directorships of and the activities and behaviour of individual leaders.
Site visits, FTSE100 or any other listed companies but would be allowed to during which directors can make connections and form have one such appointment, subject to the approval of the Group relationships, will be important in building awareness of the Nomination Committee.
Group as a whole Service agreements and letters of appointment, for both the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, are available for inspection The Chairman, the new Group Chief Executive, Group CFO at the Companys registered office, and at the AGM.
and Committee Chairmen will have particular roles to play in communicating with stakeholders, including regulators, PERFORMANCE EVALUATION shareholders and the media, as well as employees, as confidence In accordance with the Principles of the Code, an external evaluation is rebuilt.
The ability to work together to identify priorities and of the effectiveness of the Board, its Committee and individual integrate into the Groups evolving executive culture should be directors, was undertaken in the year by Boardroom Review Limited a particular focus by the Board in the future.
Boardroom Review is a company which has members sit on several Committees and that new Board members provided independent advice in the field of evaluation since 2004 but attend each Committee at least once during their induction which has not previously advised the Company.
This will increase directors knowledge of the has no other connection with the Company and was appointed various Committees and their functions following a comprehensive review of external providers.
Close attention to incentives will be important as new strategic The evaluation was conducted over a period of three months, imperatives require alignment between performance and reward, including interviews with each director, a thorough review of Board and directors will need a comprehensive understanding and further and Committee documents and attendance at a Board meeting as scrutiny of formal and informal incentive systems throughout the an observer.
They will also need to increase attention on the role of The review considered the balance, skills, experience, diversity, executive succession planning throughout the Group during this independence and knowledge of the Company, and focused on three period of uncertainty, particularly for key individuals who may be key aspects: Board environment, the work of the Board and use unsettled by recent events, with regular discussions about people of time.
Each of these aspects was further broken down into key becoming a greater part of the Boards agendas.
elements such as culture, composition, strategy and operations, risk and control, performance management, planning and allocation As part of the ongoing performance evaluation exercise and of time.
in accordance with the Code, the Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive Directors to review the Chairmans performance.
The review concluded that the Chairman had led the Board in an effective way throughout the year.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 55 The Directors Responsibility Statement appears on page 94 and ACCOUNTABILITY is incorporated by reference into this Report.
A report from the external auditor can be found on pages 95 to 98.
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 requires the directors to GOING CONCERN present a Strategic Report for each financial year of the Company.
In considering the appropriateness of the going concern basis, the The information that fulfils the requirements set out in section 414C Board has reviewed the Groups ongoing financial commitments can be found on pages 8 to 43, and is incorporated by reference into for the next 12 months and beyond.
The Boards review included this Report.
the Groups strategic plans and updated forecasts, capital position, So far as each director of the Board is aware, there is no relevant liquidity and credit facilities, and investment portfolio.
As a result audit information as defined in section 418 3 of the Companies Act of this review, the directors have satisfied themselves that it is 2006 of which the Companys external auditor is unaware, and each appropriate to prepare these financial statements on a going director has taken all steps necessary as a director in order to make concern basis.
himself herself aware of, and to establish that the external auditor is aware of, any relevant audit information.
DELEGATED AUTHORITY AND CORPORATE A balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK position and prospects, and an explanation of its strategy for delivering The purpose of the Corporate Governance Framework is to the objectives of the Company are contained in the Strategic Report determine how the Group meets its legislative and regulatory on pages 8 to 43 which includes: governance requirements, enabling effective and efficient decision Use of financial instruments by the Company, details of financial risk making by the Board and Committees.
It defines clear responsibilities and defines how the Group is directed and managed.
management objectives and policies of the Company, including the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for The Delegated Authority Framework specifies how executive authority is delegated from the Board to the Group Chief Executive which hedge accounting is used and onward delegation to other executives in the Group.
Senior The Companys exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and executives across the Group receive an executive licence setting out cashflow risk their specific limits of authority in terms of entering into financial, underwriting, claims and other business commitments.
Each executive An indication of likely future developments in the Companys business.
is responsible for ensuring a similar process of delegation is in place within his or her area of responsibility.
Further detail on the overall Details of events which have occurred after the reporting period risk framework is set out on pages 32 to 35. are set out in note 36 on page 165.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY DELEGATED AUTHORITY AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK RSA Group Board Delegated Authority Framework Executive Licence System Delegated Corporate Management Responsibility Responsibility Board and Board Committees Terms of Reference RSA Group CEO and Subsidiary management Directors 56 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND RELATED ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by In accordance with section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, each special resolution of the Companys ordinary shareholders.
director has a duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
Under Articles 91 The current Articles of Association were adopted at the and 92 of the Companys Articles of Association, conflicts of interest 2010 AGM and are available on the Companys website at may be authorised by the Board or a Board Committee.
Changes proposed to the Articles required to notify the Group General Counsel and Group Company of Association as recommended by the Board for approval by the Secretary when a conflict of interest arises.
Each directors conflicts shareholders at this years AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
of interest are reviewed on an annual basis.
Any director who has declared a conflict of interest shall not count towards the quorum or BORROWING POWERS Article 98 of the Articles of Association sets out the restrictions vote on any resolution to authorise the conflict of interest and, at the Boards discretion, may be excluded from any meeting at which the of the borrowings of the Company.
The aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the Group must not, without conflict of interest is under consideration.
Where a conflict of interest is authorised, restrictions may be imposed on the conflicted director, the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, be more than one and a half times the aggregate of: such as excluding the director from the discussion or receiving any information in connection with the conflict of interest.
i The amount paid up on the issued share capital of the The Board confirms that it has reviewed the schedule of directors Company: and conflicts of interest during the year and that the procedure in place ii The total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group operated effectively in 2013.
None of the directors had any interest in any other contract with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries during subject to certain adjustments.
2013, apart from those disclosed in the Related Party Transactions note 33 on page 163.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS AND CHANGE OF CONTROL The Company does not consider that it, or any of its subsidiaries, has any significant agreements to which the Company is a party, that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, that are required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph 13 2 j of Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, other than as disclosed below.
Under the Companys 500m five-year senior committed debt facility, if a change of control occurs, if the majority of lenders require, the facility can be cancelled with immediate effect and all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, become due and payable.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest in such circumstances.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITY Article 140 of the Articles of Association provides that, among other things and insofar as permitted by law, the Company may indemnify its directors against any liability and may purchase and maintain insurance against any liability.
The Company has granted an indemnity to each of the directors, pursuant to the power conferred by Article 140 of the Articles of Association.
The indemnities granted constitute qualifying third-party indemnity provisions, as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board undertook a review of the indemnity provisions during 2013 to bring them in line with market practice.
The Company believes that it promotes the success of the Company to provide this indemnity to its directors in order to ensure that the Group attracts and retains high calibre directors through competitive terms of employment in line with market standards.
The directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries also have the benefit of insurance which provides suitable cover in respect of legal actions brought against them.
In addition, the Company has indemnified the directors of SAL Pension Fund Limited, a majority owned subsidiary of the Group, in relation to its role as Trustee of an occupational pension scheme.
This indemnity constitutes a qualifying indemnity provision under section 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 57 outlook and strategic direction of the Group.
The Group also held a ENGAGEMENT meeting with the UK Shareholders Association on 29 November 2013.
In 2013, the Group commenced a programme of briefings for EMPLOYEES investors and analysts to provide more information on the businesses Engagement, high performance and expertise of the Groups within the Group.
There were two briefings in 2013.
The first, in June, employees are key to the successful delivery of our business strategy.
covered the Canadian business, and the second, in November, covered The Company places major emphasis on informing and involving the Scandinavian business.
employees with clear and regular communication.
Employees had the The Groups share register consists of a combination of income, opportunity to share their views on the Company through a global growth and value institutional investors predominantly from the employee engagement survey during 2013.
The results were shared UK, Europe and North America.
During 2013 there has been a openly and employees are actively encouraged to take improvement sizeable increase in the proportion of non-UK shareholders, with actions based on the survey results.
the top 20 shareholders including investors from Scandinavia, Canada, Robust performance and talent management processes are in the US and Asia.
place across the Group to ensure an ongoing focus on development, the acquisition of talent and ensuring a robust talent pipeline.
The Group runs a number of talent programmes for senior and emerging DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES BY talent and in 2013 a rigorous new talent assessment process was GEOGRAPHY introduced.
The Group has a strong track record of retaining talent A A Europe with low attrition levels among high performing and high potential 14% B Asia and Others populations.
The Company continues to be recognised in the C UK insurance market for its deep technical expertise.
B D USA and Canada The Group is committed to the promotion of equal opportunities, 3% diversity and inclusion.
In 2013, a new diversity and inclusion programme C 59% was launched with focused activity to support its delivery.
This D includes actions to strengthen the pipeline of female employees 24% in senior leadership positions, including a global female sponsorship programme, female network events and mentorship programmes.
Further details of the Companys employment policy are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 43 and is incorporated into this Report be reference.
CUSTOMER Delivering for the Groups customers has been vitally important for the Group since we started back in 1710, and this remains a key REGISTERED SHAREHOLDINGS BY SIZE priority.
Across the Company, the aim is to meet customer needs AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2013 through the delivery of consistently high quality products and services.
This is underpinned by an emphasis on innovation and continuous Total Number Percentage of Total Number Percentage improvement of the customer experience based on the extensive Balance Ranges of Holdings Holders of Shares Issued capital use of customer feedback and insight.
This work is focused on four areas 100,000499,999 387 0.89% 88,279,766 2.40% Communications, Products and Services, People and Culture and Environment and Channels.
The Board attaches great importance to its regulatory responsibilities and is committed to dealing with the regulators in an open, cooperative and transparent manner.
The Board paid close attention to the expectations of the ANALYSIS OF REGISTERED HOLDERS PRA and FCA following their establishment on 1 April 2013, and also A A Unit trusts Mutual funds E 53.1% monitored developing EU regulation, in particular Solvency II.
During 4.5% B Private Retail the year the PRA and FCA conducted private meetings with several C Pension funds members of the Board and executive management and the Board D Other collectively met with the PRA.
In addition, the Group includes a E Insurance number of regulated entities which foster positive regulatory relationships in support of the businesses.
Accordingly, maintaining effective relationships with the Groups regulators across the world is D 22.1% integral to the success of the Groups strategy and its long-term value.
SHAREHOLDERS The Group is committed to proactive and constructive interaction with shareholders and other market participants.
During 2013 the C Company held 449 meetings with institutional investors, and met 14.5% with 17 of the top 20 shareholders on at least one occasion.
The key B 5.8% themes of these meetings centred on events during the year and the 58 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 1 SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS As at 31 December 2013 At 26 February 2014 No of ordinary % of No of ordinary % of shares voting rights Nature of holding shares voting rights Nature of holding BlackRock, Inc 188,217,284 5.46% Indirect & CFD 188,217,284 5.46% Indirect & CFD Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 188,902,771 5.13% Direct, Indirect & CFD 188,902,771 5.13% Direct, Indirect & CFD Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC 184,256,341 5.01% Direct & Indirect 184,256,341 5.01% Direct & Indirect Artemis Investment Management LLP 182,450,614 4.96% Direct & Indirect 182,450,614 4.96% Direct & Indirect Schroders plc 170,851,201 4.953% Direct & Indirect 170,851,201 4.953% Direct & Indirect Newton Investment Management Ltd 168,455,475 4.88% Indirect 168,455,475 4.88% Indirect Standard Life Investments Ltd 152,266,879 4.42% Direct & Indirect 152,266,879 4.42% Direct & Indirect Notes: 1.
5 which have been notified as falling below 5% are not included in the above table.
Share Capital Trusts but has no obligation to do so and, in respect of the Royal Further information on the Companys share capital, together with & Sun Alliance ESOP Trust No.
3, the Trustee may have regard to details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the financial interests of the beneficiaries in exercising its voting the year, and rights attaching to the shares, can be found in note 19 of rights over the Companys shares.
the notes to the Financial Statements which is incorporated into this The Company did not repurchase any of its shares during 2013. report by reference.
The Company operates a sponsored American Depositary The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the Receipts ADR programme which is managed by JPMorgan Chase NA.
The average total daily trading volume during 2013 was The programme allows shareholders to invest in the Company through approximately 14 million ordinary shares.
The closing market price of US dollar denominated funds.
an ordinary share in 2 January 2013 was 127.8p and the closing market Dividends price on 31 December 2013 was 91.4p.
The highest daily closing price The Company will not be offering a final dividend in respect of the of an ordinary share was 136.3p on 19 February 2013 and the lowest financial year ending 31 December 2013.
An interim dividend of 2.28p daily closing price was 90.1p on 16 December 2013. per ordinary share was paid in November 2013 being the total dividend The Company has two classes of shares: ordinary shares of 27.5p payable for the year 2012: 7.31p.
each and preference shares of 1 each.
Each ordinary share carries The Companys preference shares receive a dividend at the rate of the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company and no 7.375% per annum, paid in two instalments, on or as near as practicably right to fixed income.
As at 31 December 2013, the ordinary shares possible, 1 April and 1 October each year.
and the preference shares represented 96.7% and 3.3% respectively The Company has the authority to offer a Scrip Dividend Scheme of the total issued share capital.
Directors are limited as to the to shareholders wishing to receive new ordinary shares of 27.5p each number of shares they can allot save in respect of share schemes.
The Scrip Dividend Scheme was originally Renewal of the directors authorities to allot shares will be sought established in 2004 and applies to both interim and final dividends.
In addition, directors are restricted by the limits Under Article 130 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Scrip set out by the Association of British Insurers.
During 2013, the Dividend Scheme requires shareholder approval and the authority directors exercised their authorities to allot only in respect of currently in place is due to expire on 17 May 2014.
The Company is employee share schemes and the Scrip Dividend Scheme.
proposing to renew the authority for the Scrip Dividend Scheme at There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding this years AGM.
nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and legislation.
AGM The directors are not aware of any agreements between the The AGM will be held at 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD Companys shareholders that may result in restrictions on the on Friday, 9 May 2014 at 11.00am.
A letter from the Chairman and transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Company may purchase the Notice convening the AGM the Notice is made available to all any of its own shares including any redeemable shares.
An authority ordinary shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting from ordinary shareholders for the Company to purchase up to and can be found on the Companys website at www.
com 359,842,892 of its own ordinary shares representing 10% of its AGM2014.
Presentations are given on the Companys performance and issued share capital as at 6 March 2013 was passed at the 2013 AGM.
activities during the year and the financial results of the Company prior This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
to the formal business of the meeting.
All directors attend the AGM if The Company operates three employee benefit trusts to hold they are able to do so, with the Chairman and each Board Committee ordinary shares in the Company which are used to satisfy grants under chairman making themselves available to take questions from ordinary the Groups share incentive schemes and Capita Trustees Limited is shareholders at the AGM.
the current Trustee of each trust.
In addition, a Share Incentive Plan Sharebuild Trust is operated of which Capita IRG Trustees is the Trustee.
The Trustees may vote in respect of any shares held in the RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 59 Separate resolutions are proposed on each item of business.
Annual Greenhouse Gas Emissions In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association, any In accordance with Part 7 of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic proxy form sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, certain disclosures general meeting must be returned to the Company, whether in written are required in respect of greenhouse gas emissions.
The information form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time for to fulfil this requirement can be found in the Corporate Responsibility holding the meeting, excluding non-business days or, in the case of a section on page 31 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting, not The greenhouse gas emission reporting covers the UK and less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Western Europe, Scandinavia, Canada and Emerging Markets At any general meeting, every ordinary shareholder present shall have businesses, including wholly owned subsidiaries, leased premises and one vote on a show of hands and on a poll, every ordinary shareholder joint ventures.
All material emissions sources reported on, are ones present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each share of deemed to be the responsibility of the Company.
The sources align which he she is the holder.
Each resolution will be put to a poll at to operational and financial control boundaries.
Where data is not the AGM in 2014.
The results of the vote on each resolution will be provided by the operating entity, estimates have been provided announced to the London Stock Exchange and will be available on based on relative calculations against other businesses within the Companys website, www.
For a full methodology statement and scope visit Preference shareholders are only entitled to receive notice of, www.
attend, speak and vote at general meetings if the dividend payable on the preference shares is in arrears at the date of the Notice, a resolution is proposed that affects the rights of the preference shareholders, a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company, a resolution is proposed to reduce the capital of the Company other than a redemption or purchase of shares, or in such other circumstances as the Board shall determine.
In any of these situations the preference shareholders may only vote on the relevant resolution and not on all the business of the general meeting.
At the 2013 AGM, an average of 63.5% of the total issued share capital was voted across all resolutions, with an average of 97.8% voting for all resolutions.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Groups Corporate Responsibility programme supports the communities in which we operate with direct corporate donations to registered charities and through supporting our people to volunteer and fundraise.
The strategy focuses on helping to create Thriving Communities by targeting two specific issues: Education and Employability: and Enterprise and Entrepreneurship.
More detail can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 43.
Public Affairs The Group contributes to public policy debate on issues relevant to the business in countries where it operates, either individually or through industry bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and the Confederation of British Industry.
This can include issues such as flooding, motor insurance, asbestos, renewable energy and regulatory reform.
The Company engages with policy makers to improve understanding of the role the insurance industry plays in society and the economy.
Employees apply the principles of openness, transparency, honesty and integrity to all of their activity with policy makers.
The Company adheres to principles of best practice, declaring the interests which it represents and ensuring that to the best of its knowledge, information provided is unbiased, complete, up-to-date and not misleading.
Each year the Company proposes a resolution authorising political expenditure up to 100,000 for each of donations to political parties and independent election candidates, donations to political organisations and incurring political expenditure.
This resolution is proposed in the event that the funding of seminars, functions and charitable donations by the Company may be regarded as political in nature.
During the year the Company has not made any donations to political parties or independent election candidates.
60 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BOARD COMMITTEES The following pages 61 to 64 report on the activities of the Board The Corporate Governance Framework structure of the Committees throughout 2013.
Separate reports on the activities Board and Committees diagram below, illustrates both the and duties of the Group Audit Committee and Group Remuneration relationship of each Committee to the Board, and also those Committee can be found in the Group Audit Committee Report on subsidiary committees that report information and support the pages 64 to 68 and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 93 purpose of each Board Committee.
respectively and are incorporated into this Report by reference.
Terms of reference for each of the Board Committees set out the authority of the Committee delegated from the Board in order Board Committee Membership for the Committee to carry out its duties.
Each Committee reviewed The Board delegates duties to five committees so that matters receive its terms of reference during the year and these were subsequently detailed consideration.
The composition of each Committee is approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for all the recommended by the Group Nomination Committee and reviewed Board Committees are available on the Companys website at on an annual basis.
When reviewing Committee membership, www.
consideration is given to each individuals expertise and experience.
The Committees role is enhanced where representation on multiple Committees ensures a good exchange of information between the Committees at all times.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK STRUCTURE OF BOARD AND COMMITTEES RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 61 Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May have decided not to offer themselves for re-election at the 2014 AGM and will leave the Board after 11 and 10 years respectively as Non-Executive Directors on 8 May 2014.
The Group Nomination Committee manages the process of identifying potential Board appointees and recommending candidates for assessment by the Board as a whole.
During the year the Committee continued to focus on ensuring that the right balance of skills, experience, knowledge, independence and the benefits of diversity, including gender were represented on the Board, both currently and in the future.
In doing so, in 2013 the Committee identified Kath Cates as a new appointee and made a recommendation to the Board regarding her appointment as a new Non-Executive Director and to the Group Audit and Board Risk Committees.
Kath brings overseas experience to the Board.
The Committee also GROUP NOMINATION COMMITTEE commenced a process in late December in respect of the appointment of Stephen Hester, the new Group Chief Executive who was Meetings Attended appointed in February 2014.
2 Martin Scicluna 3 3 We recognise the importance of diversity for Board effectiveness 2 and have established a new diversity policy.
It is our intention to meet Alastair Barbour 2 2 the Davies Report requirements and intend that by 2015, 25% of the 1 John Maxwell 0 1 Board will be women.
We remain committed to ensuring that Edward Lea 2 3 appointments are ultimately made on merit against the agreed 2 selection criteria.
Hugh Mitchell 2 2 MWM Consulting Limited, an external search agency, were Johanna Waterous 3 3 engaged during the year by the Committee to assist the Company Notes: in recruiting directors including the appointment of Kath Cates Chair of Committee as a Non-Executive Director, and search for Group Chief Executive 1.
John Maxwell ceased to be a member of the Committee with effect from 1 March 2013. resulting in the appointment of Stephen Hester as a director.
Alastair Barbour and Hugh Mitchell became members of the Committee with effect from 1 March 2013 and Martin Scicluna with effect from 8 February 2013.
A description of the role and the capabilities required for each appointment are provided to the agency.
Reports on potential As Chairman of the Group Nomination Committee, the purpose appointees are provided to the Committee members who, after of this report is to update shareholders on the activities of this careful consideration, made a recommendation to the Board.
MWM Consulting Limited is independent and has no other I took on the role of Chairman of the Group Nomination relationship with the Company.
Committee in February 2013, and I am supported on this Committee An assessment of the time commitment required to adequately by Alastair Barbour, Edward Lea, Hugh Mitchell and Johanna fulfil each role is considered by the Committee and consideration Waterous.
Attendance at Committee meetings is shown in the is given to approval of additional commitments of Non-Executive table above.
Directors during their tenure, especially where such commitment The principal role of the Committee is to keep under review might affect the time the director is able to devote to their role.
the capabilities required by the Board, consider the leadership needs of the Group and review succession planning for the Board.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of any new Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the re-appointment of directors on an annual basis with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Company to compete effectively Martin Scicluna in the marketplace, and attract and retain key people.
The key areas Chairman and Chairman of Group Nomination Committee of focus for the Committee during 2013 are shown in the table below.
26 February 2014 Group Nomination Committee Focus during 2013 Consideration and recommendation of directors appointments at 2013 AGM Review of director recruitment Consideration of applicants and recommendation of Kath Cates appointment as director, and search for Group Chief Executive resulting in the appointment of Stephen Hester Review of Board composition and succession Diversity, balance, experience and independence on the Board 62 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Although further actions were undertaken to enhance returns the Group Investment Committee continued to ensure that the Group maintained its low risk approach to the management of investment assets.
All strategies reviewed and approved were consistent with maintaining the prudent risk framework and the Committee monitored asset disposition to ensure implementation remained in line with expectations.
Since the end of 2013, the Group has sold c. 460m of equities to improve its capital position.
The proceeds of these disposals were reinvested into bonds or cash in line with the Groups high quality, low risk portfolio strategy.
GROUP INVESTMENT COMMITTEE Meetings Attended Malcolm Le May 2 Martin Scicluna 2 2 Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Group Investment Committee Alastair Barbour 2 2 26 February 2014 Richard Houghton 2 2 Malcolm Le May 2 2 Details of the Groups investments are contained in the Financial Review on pages 36 to 43.
1 Simon Lee 2 2 2 Jos Streppel 2 2 Notes: Chair of Committee 1.
Simon Lee ceased to be a member of the Committee with effect from 12 December 2013.
Martin Scicluna became a member of the Committee with effect from 8 February 2013 and Jos Streppel from 1 March 2013.
Stephen Hester became a member of the Committee with effect from 5 February 2014.
As Chairman of the Group Investment Committee, I am pleased to present an update for the year to shareholders.
INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2013 Membership of the Committee comprises myself as Chairman, E A A Bonds D Alastair Barbour, Jos Streppel, Martin Scicluna, Stephen Hester and 3% 82% B Equities 3% Richard Houghton.
The Group Investments Director attends all C Cash C meetings of the Committee to provide an update on the economic and 8% D Property B market background and outlook affecting the Group, the investment E Other 4% activities taken since the Committee last met and any portfolio actions which require the Committees approval.
The Group Investment Committee is authorised by the Board to manage all aspects of investment policy and strategy for the Group and provide oversight of the operation of the Groups investment portfolios within established strategy and risk frameworks.
The key areas of focus for the Committee during 2013 are shown in the table below.
Group Investment Committee Focus during 2013 Investment updates including: Economic and market development Activity, disposition and performance Economic and market outlook Investment strategy Global economic and market conditions through 2013 continued to remain challenging.
With economic growth remaining subdued, cash rates and bond yields remained close to record low levels, placing downward pressure on investment income.
Against this background the Committee continued to review alternatives for enhancing the returns generated by the investment portfolios.
This included a strong allocation towards high quality non-government bonds and also a modest further allocation towards loan products.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 63 The key areas of focus for the Committee are shown in the table below, with further detail provided in the report that follows.
Board Risk Committee Focus during 2013 Chief Risk Officer overview Business Risk review: Insurance Risk Financial Risk Reinsurance Solvency II and capital review Internal model validation Remuneration review Risk Management System: strategy, appetite, monitoring and management BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Review of Group policies Meetings Attended 201416 operating plan 4 Martin Scicluna 4 4 Anti-bribery and corruption 4 Alastair Barbour 4 4 Cyber risk 1 Kath Cates 2 2 Board Risk Committee governance 2 Noel Harwerth 0 1 Review of findings following PwCs independent review Richard Houghton 4 4 Malcolm Le May 4 4 During the year the Group risk appetite was reviewed by the 4 Committee and refreshed as necessary through the year, before Edward Lea 4 4 its approval by the Board.
The risk department undertook an 3 Simon Lee 4 4 independent analysis of the Groups operating plan from a risk Notes: perspective, which was reviewed and challenged by the Committee Chair of Committee and outcomes communicated to management.
Kath Cates became a member of the Committee with effect from 1 September 2013.
The Committee considered the risk management system, 2.
Noel Harwerth ceased to be a member of the Committee with effect from 31 March 2013. including risk assurance mapping and the three lines of defence 3.
Martin Scicluna became a member of the Committee with effect from 8 February 2013 model.
The outputs and key assumptions of the internal capital and Alastair Barbour and Edward Lea from 1 March 2013. model were reviewed, in conjunction with the approach and 5.
Stephen Hester became a member of the Committee with effect from 5 February 2014. conclusions of our independent internal model validation function.
Regular updates were provided to the Committee by management As Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, I am pleased to present on the strategic direction of the Groups response to Solvency II the Committees report for 2013 to shareholders.
against the backdrop of confirmation of a start date of 2016, I became Chairman of the Committee in March 2013, succeeding along with regular reviews of the reinsurance programme structure.
Current membership of the Committee comprises The Business Risk review presented at each meeting to the Martin Scicluna, Alastair Barbour, Stephen Hester, Richard Houghton, Committee covered insurance risk, including remediation progress Malcolm Le May and Kath Cates.
Regular attendees include the Chief on specific risk portfolios, financial risk, and reinsurance risk and Risk Officer, Group Risk Director, Group Chief Auditor, Director strategy.
The Committees review of capital included trends, drivers of Underwriting, the Group General Counsel and Group Company and sensitivities across different measures and consideration of a Secretary, and the Group Head of Regulatory Risk and Compliance.
new capital appetite structure and forecasting.
Regional risk and underwriting officers and other employees or The Groups remuneration policy is reviewed by the Committee advisers may attend at the invitation of the Committee, and since at least annually, to ensure that risk is properly considered in the June the external auditor has also attended meetings.
Attendance overall setting of the policy for the Group and the remuneration at Committee meetings is shown in the table above.
of Executive Directors and other senior executives.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to advise on risk Technology risk was reviewed along with a new technology management issues, recommend the Group framework of risk limits risk framework, and how cyber risks across the Groups different and risk appetite to the Board for approval and oversee the risk operations are being addressed.
Pension risk, along with risks affecting management arrangements of the Company and the Group generally.
people, reputation and conduct were considered during the year, The Committee ensures that the material risks facing the Group and the programme of stress and scenario testing continued, with have been identified, and that appropriate arrangements are in the addition of a detailed reverse stress-test exercise.
place to manage and mitigate those risks effectively.
In addition, significant risk events and breaches, with any evident The Committee has four scheduled meetings a year, which are or emerging trends, were the subject of ongoing analysis by planned to allow reporting from the business to the Committee on a management and consideration by the Committee, one aspect quarterly basis and for the Committee to report any areas of concern of which was the review of a root cause analysis pilot study looking or interest to the Board.
Additional meetings may be called if required.
at selected material losses, including articulation of management, The Committee reports to the Board on the outcome of meetings governance and cultural factors.
and refers matters to the Board as required.
The emerging risks profile was refreshed in liaison with external agencies, building on participation with the CRO Forum Emerging Risks Working Group and the World Economic Forum Risk Advisory Council.
There has been a rotating focus on individual regions, with
