64 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION regional presentations from all regional risk officers over the last 15 months and an additional committee has been established at the corporate centre to provide greater insight to the Committee.
The Committee considered significant changes in the risk profile and risk appetite during the year.
The Groups capital positions weakened during the year due to internal and external factors, which reduced resilience, increased sensitivity to a range of risks and contributed to heightened reputational risk.
The most material factors eroding capital buffers were adverse performance such as weather and Ireland as well as certain changes of treatment in calculations including those by Standard & Poors and rising interest rates affecting the Solvency 1 IGD ratio.
Together with qualitative considerations related to the Ireland events, this led Standard & Poors to downgrade the Groups core operating entities from A to A-.
The Committee devoted significant time to capital during the year, discussing and approving an enhanced capital risk appetite to set out GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT more consistently and explicitly the target range and buffers for each I am pleased to present to shareholders the Group Audit Committee principal capital measure.
This was calibrated with reference to a set Report for 2013, which sets out the responsibilities and the key of standard stress tests, reputational risk assessment and model risks.
activities of the Committee, recognising its key role in the governance The Committee oversaw a change in risk appetite during the year to of the Company.
I would like to welcome Kath Cates, who joined the reflect the capital situation: equity exposures were reduced, additional Board and the Committee on 1 September 2013. reinsurance protection was purchased, M&A activity was halted and As an introduction to the Report, the key areas of focus for capital action plans were launched.
the Committee are shown in the table below, with further detail Members of the Committee, alongside management, have been provided in the Report that follows.
involved in discussions following the independent PwC review Group Audit Committee Focus during 2013 surrounding the risks identified and subsequent recommendations.
Reviewing all scheduled results announcements In 2014, in addition to regular matters, the Committee currently expects to oversee enhancements to the control and assurance Financial accounting and reporting matters framework following PwCs review and the implementation of these Financial Control Framework along with the Group Audit Committee: to discuss the findings from Reviewing the effectiveness of internal control and risk thematic deep-dives on elements of underwriting and claims risks, management processes and to consider how risk and control culture is defined and assessed.
During the year, the Committee was externally evaluated by Selection and recommendation regarding the appointment Boardroom Review, a provider of independent advice on boardroom of the external auditor effectiveness.
This review was in compliance with the Code, the External audit plan, progress and reporting by KPMG results of which are detailed on page 54.
The Committee has Group and regional Internal Audit Reports and plan for 2014 discussed the outcomes of that review.
Regulatory Risk and Compliance updates and plans Financial crime, money laundering and whistleblowing procedures A primary focus for the Committee has been reviewing all scheduled results announcements: the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts with particular emphasis on their fair presentation: the Edward Lea reasonableness of judgements made: valuation of assets and liability Senior Independent Director balances and the appropriateness of significant accounting policies and Chairman of Board Risk Committee used in their preparation, together with the application of those 26 February 2014 policies.
The Committee has reviewed the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems.
Events in Ireland, as described on page 16 and discussed below, have been a significant focus in the last quarter of the year and the Committee was active DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT in overseeing the various reviews carried out by PwC, Group The Directors Responsibility Statement appears on page 94 and is Internal Audit and KPMG to assist in understanding what transpired incorporated by reference into this Report.
and provide assurance that the same issues did not exist elsewhere in the Group.
By order of the Board The Committee also oversaw an effectiveness review of the Groups Financial Control Framework.
This involved consideration and approval of the review plan, regular updates and challenge to management at progress meetings.
The proposed changes include enhancements to the existing framework, recommendations regarding accountability, increased coverage and scope which are aimed at providing additional assurance as part of the system of control for Derek Walsh the Group.
Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary 26 February 2014 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 65 During the year the Committee was externally evaluated by may attend at the invitation of the Committee.
Boardroom Review as part of the wider review of the Board and Details of membership and attendance at Committee meetings its Committees, the outcome of which can be found on page 54. are shown in the table below.
Meetings Attended Alastair Barbour 6 6 1 Kath Cates 2 2 2 Noel Harwerth 1 2 Alastair WS Barbour Edward Lea 5 6 FCA, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Group Audit Committee Johanna Waterous 6 6 Notes: Chair of Committee 1.
Kath Cates became a member of the Group Audit Committee with effect from ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES 1 September 2013.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in discharging its 2.
Noel Harwerth ceased to be a member of the Group Audit Committee with effect responsibilities for the integrity of the Annual Report and Financial from 31 March 2013.
Statements, for the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and financial and regulatory risk management systems, and for monitoring The Committee has been assisted in carrying out its duties by the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
a disclosure committee which meets quarterly, and is responsible The Committee has unrestricted access to management, for considering and identifying any disclosure matters in connection information and external advisers as required in order to fulfil with the preparation of quarterly market releases containing material Committee duties, and is satisfied that it has received sufficient, financial information.
The Group Disclosure Committee is chaired reliable and timely information during 2013, in order to discharge by the Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary its duties.
and comprises members of senior management from finance, legal, investor relations, company secretarial and risk.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION, SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the outcome The Committee is comprised of four independent Non-Executive of Committee meetings and the Board also receives the minutes of Directors.
With effect from 1 September 2013, Kath Cates was Committee meetings.
appointed to the Committee, bringing substantial overseas business operating experience.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee has WHISTLEBLOWING recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code, with The Group has a whistleblowing policy, the effectiveness of which all members bringing diverse financial, overseas and industry is reviewed annually by the Committee.
The aim of the policy is to experience which, together with their varied tenure at the Company, provide employees with a confidential forum to raise concerns in good faith where they either do not feel comfortable raising the enables the members collectively to act as an effective Committee.
In addition, three of the four Committee members are also members of matter with local management or are not satisfied with the local management response.
A summary of all whistleblowing incidents, the Board Risk Committee, facilitating the close working and ready underlying investigations and actions undertaken is provided to exchange of information between the two committees.
the Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee acknowledges the importance of keeping skills Following the Committees annual effectiveness review, the current and relevant.
To that end, it receives training from audit firms Company, led by the risk team and supported by both this Committee and from management.
The Committee members review and identify and the Board Risk Committee, is undertaking a review of the training needs on both a collective and individual basis, and training is whistleblowing policy to ensure it continues to be readily accessible, arranged as appropriate.
communicated to, and understood by, employees across the Group.
MEETINGS FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL ISSUES The Committee held six meetings during the year: four were timed The main matters and primary areas of judgement addressed to allow consideration of the financial information being presented and concluded on by the Committee were as follows: to the market in respect of the Groups annual and half-year results and to consider key financial matters supporting the two interim Irish financial and claims irregularities: management statements: one in January considered the change of Following the discovery of accounting irregularities, the Committee external auditor: and the final meeting in December considered maintained oversight of the internal and external investigations and ensured that the scope of the work and remediation was and approved the Group Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk and Compliance plans for 2014, and considered matters which were appropriate.
The Committee agreed with managements proposal to extend the work of the external and internal auditors to provide anticipated would impact the 2013 year-end financial reporting assurance that the issues identified in Ireland did not extend to processes.
The Committee assessed their findings The Committee members met privately before each scheduled and determined that there was sufficient evidence to conclude that meeting to discuss issues on which to concentrate with management the issues were limited to the Irish entity and that the Irish results and advisers in the meeting.
The Committee held regular private had been appropriately adjusted.
For further information on the meetings with the Group Chief Auditor and the external auditor Irish issues see below.
without other members of management being present.
The Group Chief Executive, the Group CFO, the Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary, the Group Chief Auditor, the Group Head of Regulatory Risk and Compliance and representatives of the external auditor, KPMG, are regular attendees at Committee meetings by invitation.
The Chairman attended Committee meetings in February and August, when full-year and half-year results were considered.
Other members of management and external advisers 66 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Valuation of investment assets: Employee benefits and retirement pension obligations: In order to satisfy the Committee that investment assets are During the year the Committee received reports on the valuation fairly stated, the Committee receives and reviews quarterly of the pension schemes.
As the pension schemes are sensitive updates detailing the valuation together with the movement to changes in key assumptions, a sub-group of the Committee in the value of the investment portfolio.
The Committee also reviewed the methodology and assumptions in detail and examined reviews the quarterly Financial Controls Framework report, pension scheme valuation movements against other companies which specifically details the effectiveness of controls with similar schemes.
In addition, any non standard changes in over investment accounting, and noted that no significant judgements are reviewed by the Committee and during the year issues have arisen.
the Committee assessed managements proposal to change the index used to derive the discount rate and concluded that Valuation of insurance liabilities: the change was appropriate.
The Committee was briefed by The Committee has paid particular attention to ensuring that management on the impact of the revised standard IAS 19 Employee management has exercised appropriate judgement in estimating Benefits which came into effect on 1 January 2013, with particular insurance contract liabilities including assessing the impact of reference to the treatment within the Consolidated Income claims trends and other influencing factors.
The Committee Statement and the required restatement of the 2012 comparatives also examined the appropriateness of discount rates on certain therein.
Management also took the Committee through the impact long-tail liabilities: of the introduction of IFRS 13 on the treatment of assets within The Committee received and reviewed actuarial reserving the fide-risked element of the pension scheme and concluded reports which detail the basis for judgement in valuing insurance the disclosure was appropriate.
liabilities from management and an external review of the Valuation of deferred tax assets: adequacy of reserves by Towers Watson.
The Committee The Committee reviewed the key assumptions and financial satisfied itself that management reflected available and reliable projections supporting the UK deferred tax asset.
The Committee information when setting the reserves and that an appropriate assessed the forecasts presented by management and in particular, margin was maintained.
In respect of Irish reserves, the the longer-term projections of profitability in light of the business Committee concluded that once management became aware review and the extrapolations used in the projections, and of the extent of the issues, the financial statements were concluded that managements view was fair and reasonable.
adjusted appropriately Assessment of the Annual Report and Accounts: In addition, the Committee reviewed the rates used for At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether discounting long-tail liabilities and determined that the current the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and methodology adopted by management was in line with accounting understandable, and whether the disclosures were appropriate.
standards and that managements recommendation to reduce To ensure that new accounting standards were understood and UK rates from 5% to 4% was appropriate appropriately reflected in the financial statements, the Committee The Committee received and considered detailed written and received quarterly updates of all relevant accounting standards that verbal reporting from the external auditor setting out their could impact the financial statements.
In particular the impact of observations and conclusions in respect of the recorded insurance changes to IAS 19 Employee Benefits and IFRS 13 Fair Value contract liabilities.
Taken as a whole, the Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced Valuation of goodwill and other intangibles: and understandable and provides the information necessary for Significant acquisitions are reported to the Committee on a shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business quarterly basis.
In particular, the Committee focused on the model and strategy.
purchase accounting relating to the 2012 acquisitions in Argentina and Canada and satisfied themselves that the acquisitions are IRELAND appropriately reflected in the financial statements.
At the year-end As announced in November 2013, PwC were appointed to undertake a comprehensive review of goodwill and intangibles was presented an independent review into the financial and regulatory reporting to the Committee, which detailed the main assumptions used to processes and controls within the Irish business, and Group oversight support the recoverability of each asset, together with sensitivities and controls of the Irish business.
In order to further establish that to key assumptions.
The Committee considered in particular the the financial irregularities encountered in Ireland had not occurred carrying value of the software in the UK and agreed a write down elsewhere, the Board commissioned additional work to be undertaken reflecting the results of the business review and consequent change by external auditor KPMG and by Group Internal Audit.
in use and life of some elements of the IT systems.
The Committee On 9 January 2014, the findings of these reviews were released received more detailed information on the goodwill attributed to the market.
The independent PwC review described the Group to the Irish business, and, after discussion and challenge, accepted Control Framework as appropriate in terms of structure and design, the recommendation of managements judgement on its carrying for an international insurance group of this size and complexity, value.
Management also updated the Committee on the results and elements of its design compare favourably across the market.
of impairment reviews covering all material goodwill balances The effectiveness of the framework, as it related to Ireland, was across the Group and the Committee supported assessment weakened due to independent controls not operating effectively.
of managements goodwill impairments for Poland, Argentina, UK and Italy.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 67 The PwC report makes a number of recommendations including INTERNAL CONTROL conducting a review into the verification of policy adherence, The Board has overall responsibility for the effectiveness of internal enhancing the clarity of control standards and effectiveness of local control systems, with the implementation and maintenance being implementation, and improving the balance of trust, integrity and delegated to the Executive Directors and senior management.
accountability with challenge and independent verification.
The Committee reviews the performance of internal control The Board has confirmed that PwCs recommendations to enhance systems quarterly, with an annual review undertaken by the Board.
the operational effectiveness of Group-wide assurance processes This system includes governance, financial controls, the risk and Irish financial controls have been adopted.
A local programme management framework and processes to deliver regulatory and of remediation has already begun and the Group continues to compliance requirements.
In addition the Board, through the Board work with the Irish regulator, the Central Bank of Ireland.
Risk Committee, considers reports from risk specialists across the These recommendations have already been incorporated into Group and reviews Group-level risk management information.
a refresh of assurance processes across the Group, many elements The systems are designed to identify and mitigate, rather than of which are already underway, and the Company will continue eliminate, the potential risk of failure to achieve business objectives to engage with the PRA as this work progresses.
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Additional assurance testing, at a materiality level set by reference material financial misstatement or loss.
to individual territories balance sheets by our external auditor In February 2014, the Committee and the Board reviewed the KPMG and Group Internal Audit, confirmed that the financial and systems of internal control in operation during 2013.
As referred claims irregularities were isolated to Ireland.
The work undertaken to above and on page 16, the Irish business had suffered a significant by KPMG, which extended to 29 territories, was an early control failure which was investigated by a number of independent commencement and deepening of the work to support their year-end external and internal reviews.
The results of these reviews were audit to test that certain balance sheet items, and income recognition, presented to the Board and disclosed to shareholders on 9 January had not been inappropriately accounted for as occurred in Ireland.
The conclusion reached by the Board in conjunction with Having received their report the Board is satisfied that the issues management on the basis of the reviews was that the issues identified investigated have not been repeated elsewhere in the Group.
Group in Ireland were isolated to that country and that no other significant Internal Audit were commissioned to examine the effectiveness of failings or weaknesses in the Groups control environment were controls over Large Loss Case Reserving.
Their report, which covered identified.
20 territories, concluded that the controls are adequate and effective The Committee received regular reports from the Group and found no evidence of suppression of, or delays in adjusting, large Chief Auditor on the integrity of the control environment, claims reserves.
and from the external auditor based on its audit work.
Findings and recommendations arising from internal and external audit work are FINANCIAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK discussed by the Committee together with any control improvements The Financial Control Framework aims to deliver a consistent recommended.
These are also discussed between the businesses.
approach to finance-related controls across the Group that is fit for During the year the Committee discussed the reliance of the business purpose for all regions, embedding a control culture that strengthens on effective IT systems and agreed changes to provide additional the Groups finance environment by ensuring that financial processes oversight to some IT testing processes, improved training for staff are managed effectively in order to mitigate the risk of financial and better documentation standards.
The process involves documenting and testing the Business managers across the Group complete a quarterly operation of key financial controls, thereby providing an acceptable self-certification process which requires them to confirm the degree of assurance around the financial control environment.
adequacy of controls and their compliance with Company policies, The Committee received quarterly reports focusing on the local laws, rules and regulations.
assessment and testing of controls, including notification of any system The reporting framework delivers information to enable the or control weaknesses, or breaches in the period and the action taken systems of internal control to be monitored and their effectiveness as a result, allowing the Committee to address deficiencies and take to be reviewed as required by the Code.
The Board considers that an action as appropriate.
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant The effectiveness review of the Financial Control Framework risks faced by the Group has been in place during 2013 and up to the referred to above has been extended to take into account the lessons date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process learned from Ireland.
accords with the latest Turnbull Guidance.
68 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT The Committee has an embedded Non-Audit Services Policy to The Committee oversees and reviews the activities and effectiveness assist with maintaining the independence of the external auditor and of Group Internal Audit GIA who assist in accomplishing the Groups its personnel.
The policy was reviewed early in 2013 and revised to objectives by evaluating the Groups risk management, control and permit only specifically defined services considered to be audit related governance processes, and assist with improving their effectiveness.
to be performed by the auditor, and that all non-audit services must be Their primary role is to help the Board and Executive Management to approved by the Committee.
A limit in value of non-audit fees incurred protect the assets, reputation and sustainability of the organisation.
by the auditor, to 25% of total audit fees for a financial year, has been The scope of GIA is unrestricted.
In exceptional circumstances the auditor could be A comprehensive, risk-based audit plan is prepared by GIA on an considered for additional services where there is an overwhelming annual basis, taking into consideration the key strategic and emerging business rationale, but only with Board approval.
A summary of the risks facing the Group.
Regular updates were provided to the policy is available on the Companys website at www.
com Committee on the progress of the 2013 plan, and in December the termsofreference.
2014 plan was reviewed, challenged and approved by the Committee.
The Committee receives and reviews a report on the non-audit The Committee received quarterly reports from GIA on their services and spend quarterly, together with information on fees assessment of the internal control environment of the Group and agreed and billed by the other major accounting firms.
During the year management were required to present to the Committee their views KPMG provided non-audit services totalling 2.2m, of which 1.3m on the key risks and issues identified by GIA, along with the related related to the extended audit work following the identification of remediation plans.
financial and claims irregularities in Ireland.
This additional work was approved by the Board in line with the Non-Audit Services Policy.
The Committee has reviewed a detailed assessment against the requirements of the new guidelines issued by the Institute of Internal The Company undertakes a thorough review of the effectiveness of the external auditor on an annual basis, usually on completion of the Auditors titled Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services Sector and actions have been initiated to ensure compliance by 2015. audit process.
In the year under review, the process has been amended During the year the Committee received presentations from the to accommodate the fact that this is the first year of audit by KPMG regional chief auditors, enabling a more detailed view of the activities and has in part been concurrent with the audit.
The review has performed in each region, and providing additional context to covered the perceived quality, effectiveness, objectivity and business risks.
independence of the external auditor together with their compliance with the Committees guidance referred to above.
It was conducted EXTERNAL AUDITOR by seeking the views of the Committee, senior management and In 2013, the Board recommended to shareholders the appointment members of the Group financial reporting team, and asking for of KPMG LLP as external auditor to the Company.
This followed a opinions against set criteria and the performance of the external rigorous tender process, overseen and directed by the Committee auditor against those criteria.
On the basis of the review, the in which five audit firms were invited to tender.
Committee is satisfied with the work of KPMG and that they are The process included provision of detailed information, meetings objective and independent.
Accordingly, the Committee has and presentations to both management and the Committee.
There recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to the 2014 were 29 members of management involved in meeting with the AGM for the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as external auditor, and tendering firms and all evaluated the firms against selection criteria the Board has accepted this recommendation.
covering industry knowledge, people, audit approach, proactivity, There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys organisational fit and coverage, customer focus and fees.
Of the firms choice of external auditor and there is no limitation of liability in the who tendered, two were invited to make formal presentations to terms of the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor to the Company.
These presentations took the form of meetings at which proposed audit strategy including planning, scope and risk identification was presented, discussed and challenged.
Following those meetings, the Committee recommended to the Board that the appointment of KPMG LLP be recommended to shareholders.
A resolution was put to shareholders and passed Alastair WS Barbour at the 2013 AGM.
FCA, Non-Executive Director and Chairman The Committee has provided clear guidance to KPMG on the of Group Audit Committee Committees expectations of them as part of their role as auditor: 26 February 2014 that the Committee, not management, is their client: that they are expected to challenge appropriately: that they are expected to raise issues and concerns with the Committee as soon as is appropriate: and on material matters they are expected to indicate their agreement to the position taken by management, or to explain why they do not, and the implications.
It is the intention of the Committee that the Company will adhere to the Code requirement of tendering for the external auditor at least every 10 years.
