Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Corporate Governance Statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has implemented a framework for corporate governance which it considers to be appropriate for an investment company in order to comply with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Financial Reporting Council published a revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code in September 2012 the Code which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012 and the disclosures in this Statement report against its provisions.
The Code is published by the UK Financial Reporting Council and is available to download from www.
Compliance Statement The UK Listing Authority requires all UK listed companies to disclose how they have complied with the provisions of the Code.
This Corporate Governance Statement, together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities and Going Concern statement set out on pages 15 and 16, indicates how the Company has complied with the principles of good governance of the Code and its requirements on Internal Control.
The Board considers that the Company has, throughout the year under review, complied with all relevant provisions set out in the Code.
Application of the Codes Principles Role of the Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and promoting a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of Directors, setting the Boards agenda and for ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, including strategy.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is available to the Directors and or shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board determines and monitors the Companys investment objectives and policy, and considers the future strategic direction of the Company.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board have been adopted.
The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and, where appropriate, prospects in annual and half-yearly accounts and other forms of public reporting.
It monitors and reviews the shareholder base of the Company, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, and evaluates the performance of all service providers, with input from its Committees where appropriate.
A procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company, where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representative, who is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Composition and Independence The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors.
Profiles of each of the Directors, including their age and length of service, may be found on the inside front cover of this Report.
The Board considers each of the Directors to be independent.
The independence of each Director is considered on a continuing basis.
The Board has no executive Directors and has not appointed a Chief Executive Officer as it has contractually delegated responsibility for the management of the Companys investment portfolio, the arrangement of custodial services and the provision of accounting and company secretarial services.
The Company has no employees.
Details of the relationship with the Investment Manager may be found in the Report of the Directors on page 10 of this Report.
The Board is satisfied that it is of sufficient size with an appropriate balance of skills and experience, independence and knowledge of both the Company and the wider investment company industry to enable Directors to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively and that no individual or group of individuals is, or has been, in a position to dominate decision making.
Board Committees and their Activities The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and functions to Committees.
Terms of Reference for each of these Committees, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Companys website at www.
Details of membership of the Committees at 30 September 2013 may be found on the inside front cover of this Report and information regarding attendance at Committee meetings during the year under review may be found on page 24.
21 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Corporate Governance Statement Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Smith, is to ensure that the Company maintains the highest standards of integrity in financial reporting and internal control.
The Board considers each member of the Committee to be independent.
The Board also considers that members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met on two occasions during the year ended 30 September 2013 to consider the annual and half-year report and accounts, the external Auditors year-end report, management representation letters, the effectiveness of the audit process, the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor and internal controls operating within the Manager and custodian.
During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2013, the Audit Committee considered the following significant issues, including those communicated by the Auditors during their reporting: Issue considered How the issue was addressed Overall accuracy of the annual report Consideration of draft annual report, letters of representation to the Auditor and accounts and the audit plan.
Directors statement on going Consideration of investments, risk management policies, capital concern management policies and procedures and expenditure projects.
Principal risks and uncertainties Consideration of principal risks and uncertainties as part of the Boards overall internal controls monitoring.
Compliance with S1158 of the Consideration of compliance criteria.
Corporation Tax Act 2010 Valuation and existence of holdings Review of portfolio holdings.
Effectiveness of the External Audit Process The Audit Committee evaluated the effectiveness of the external audit firm and process prior to making a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This evaluation involved an assessment of the effectiveness of the Auditors performance against agreed criteria including: qualification: knowledge, expertise and resources: independence policies: effectiveness of audit planning: adherence to auditing standards: and overall competence.
As part of the evaluation, the Committee considered feedback from the Investment Manager on the audit process and the year-end report from the Auditors, which details compliance with regulatory requirements, on safeguards that have been established, and on their own internal quality control procedures.
Having reviewed the criteria and satisfied itself with the effectiveness of the external audit process, the Audit Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided by  LLP and therefore has not considered it necessary to require an independent tender process.
 LLP has been engaged as the Companys Auditors since the Companys launch.
Since launch the performance of the Auditors has been considered on an annual basis as part of the audit process.
The audit contract has not been put out to tender.
The Audit Committee determines whether the contract should be put to tender as part of the annual consideration of re-appointment of the Auditors.
The Auditors are required to rotate the Senior Statutory Auditor every five years.
The previous Senior Statutory Auditor stepped down following the audit of the Companys 2012 financial statements and, following review by the Audit Committee, a successor Senior Statutory Auditor was appointed to conduct the audit of the Companys financial statements for the year under review.
Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report and Accounts are considered.
Having reviewed the performance of the external Auditors as described above, the Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their re-appointment.
The Companys Auditors,  LLP, have expressed their willingness to remain in office and resolutions to re-appoint them as Auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Provision of Non-Audit Services The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the Companys Auditors to supply non-audit services to the Company.
2,000 is payable to the Auditors for non-audit services provided in respect of taxation compliance for the year under review 2012: 2,000.
The Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the Committee for all non-audit services, which 22 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Corporate Governance Statement takes into consideration confirmation from the Auditors that they have adequate arrangements in place to safeguard their objectivity and independence in carrying out such work, within the meaning of the regulatory and professional requirements to which they are subject: the fees to be incurred, relative to the audit fees: the nature of the non-audit services: and whether the Auditors skills and experience make it the most suitable supplier of such services and whether they are in a position to provide them.
Nomination Committee The role of the Nomination Committee, chaired by The Hon.
Rupert Carington, is to consider and make recommendations to the Board on its composition so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity, including gender, and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
On individual appointments, the Committee leads the process and makes recommendations to the Board.
Before the appointment of a new Director, the Nomination Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
While the Committee is dedicated to selecting the best person for the role, it aims to promote diversification and the Board also recognises the importance of diversity.
The Board agrees that its members should overall possess a range of experience, knowledge, professional skills and personal qualities as well as independence necessary to provide effective oversight of the affairs of the Company.
These qualities are taken into account in considering the appointment of a new Director.
The Board does not consider it appropriate or to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole to establish prescriptive diversity targets.
When considering whether to replace a Director, the Companys policy on tenure is also taken into account.
In the light of this evaluation, the Nomination Committee will consider a range of candidates sourced either from recommendation from within the Company or by using external consultants.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee is primarily responsible for interviewing suitable candidates and a recommendation is made to the Board for final approval.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met on one occasion during the year ended 30 September 2013 to consider the composition of the Board and its refreshment policy.
Management Engagement Committee The role of the Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Mr Fenn, is to ensure that the Companys Investment Manager remains suitable to manage the portfolio, that the management contract is competitive and reasonable for the shareholders, and that the Company maintains appropriate administrative and company secretarial support.
In addition, the Committee reviews fees paid to Directors and makes recommendations to the Board in this regard.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met on one occasion during the year ended 30 September 2013 and considered the performance and suitability of the Investment Manager, the terms and conditions of the management contract and the fees paid to Directors.
Tenure The Directors have adopted a policy on tenure that is considered appropriate for an investment company.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, leads to a closer relationship with the Investment Manager, or that it necessarily affects a Directors independence of character or judgment.
Therefore, the independence of Directors is assessed on a case by case basis.
In order to give shareholders the opportunity to endorse this policy, and in accordance with the provisions of the Code, any Director who has served for more than nine years will thereafter be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Induction and Training The Board has adopted a full, formal and tailored induction programme for new Directors, which is administered by the Company Secretary.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements and its internal controls.
Regulatory and legislative changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise along with changes to best practice.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time.
In addition, the Chairman reviews the training and development needs of each Director annually, as part of the evaluation process outlined below.
Board Evaluation The Board has adopted a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation takes place in two stages.
First, the evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, and the evaluation of the Chairmans performance is led by the Senior Independent Director.
23 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Corporate Governance Statement Secondly, the Board evaluates its own performance and that of its Committees.
The Directors meet at least once a year without the Chairman present and the Senior Independent Director chairs this meeting.
Evaluation is conducted utilising a questionnaire combined with one to one meetings if appropriate.
The Board has developed criteria for use at the evaluation, which focuses on the individual contribution to the Board and its Committees made by each Director, an analysis of the time which Directors are able to allocate to the Company to discharge their duties effectively and the responsibilities, composition and agenda of the Committees and of the Board itself.
The evaluation also focuses on the operation of the Board as a whole and its diversity, taking into account factors such as the overall skills, knowledge and experience possessed by its members and their knowledge of the Company and the significant issues which it faces.
The last evaluation took place in May 2013.
The last external evaluation of the Board was commissioned in December 2011, facilitated by Trust Associates.
Meetings and Attendance The Board meets at least four times each year and, in addition, meets specifically to discuss strategy once each year.
Additional meetings are also arranged as required and regular contact between Directors, the Investment Manager and the Company Secretary is maintained throughout the year.
Representatives of the Investment Manager and Company Secretary attend each meeting and other advisers also attend when requested to do so by the Board.
Attendance at the four scheduled Board meetings and at Committee meetings held during the year under review was as follows.
Management Nomination Audit Engagement Director Board Committee Committee Committee The Hon.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Chairman and the other non-executive Directors commits sufficient time to the affairs of the Company to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Information Flows The Chairman ensures that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, relevant management, regulatory and financial information and are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements and internal controls.
Accordingly, the Board receives and considers regular reports from the Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information as required.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance During the year, the Company maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
Directors Indemnities The Company provides a Deed of Indemnity to each Director to the extent permitted by United Kingdom law whereby the Company is able to indemnify such Director against any liability incurred in proceedings in which the Director is successful, and for costs in defending a claim brought against the Director for breach of duty where the Director acted honestly and reasonably.
The Deeds of Indemnity were in place throughout the year under review.
Conflicts of Interest The Board has approved a policy on Directors conflicts of interest.
Under this policy, the Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conflicts of interest to the Board as they arise for consideration and approval.
The Board may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise such conflicts if deemed appropriate.
Substantial Share Interests Interests of 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital, which have been notified to the Company, are set out in the Report of the Directors on page 15.
24 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Corporate Governance Statement Relations with Shareholders The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with both institutional and retail shareholders is important for the long-term prospects of the Company.
It has since its launch, sought engagement with investors.
The Chairman, and other Directors where appropriate, discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
The Board receives feedback on the views of shareholders from its corporate broker and the Investment Manager.
The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting AGM provides an appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual Report and Accounts is, when possible, sent to shareholders at least 20 business days before the AGM.
The AGM is typically attended by all Directors and proceedings include a presentation by the Investment Manager.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairmen of the Board and its Committees and the Senior Independent Director at the AGM.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders at the Meeting and on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to shareholders as soon as possible after the Companys year end, and holding the earliest possible AGM, is valuable.
The Notice of Meeting on page 45 sets out the business of the AGM.
Exercise of Voting Rights and the UK Stewardship Code The Company has delegated responsibility for voting to Schroders, which votes in accordance with its corporate governance policy.
A copy of this policy is available on the Companys website.
The Board considers the UK Stewardship Code to be an important tool in shareholder engagement and monitors the voting policy of the Manager to ensure compliance.
Schroders compliance with the principles of the UK Stewardship Code, as revised in September 2012, is reported on its website, www.
Internal Control The Code requires the Board to conduct at least annually a review of the adequacy of the Companys systems of internal control, including its risk management system, and report to shareholders that it has done so.
The Board has undertaken a full review of all the aspects of the Turnbull Guidance as revised in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance, under which the Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has approved a detailed Risk Map identifying significant strategic, investment-related, operational and service provider-related risks and has in place a monitoring system to ensure that risk management and all aspects of internal control are considered on a regular basis, and fully reviewed at least annually.
The monitoring system assists in determining the nature and extent of the significant risks the Board is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board believes that the key risks identified and the implementation of a continuing system to identify, evaluate and manage these risks are based upon and relevant to the Companys business as an investment company.
Risk assessment, which has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of this report, includes consideration of the scope and quality of the systems of internal control, including any whistleblowing policies where appropriate, adopted by the Investment Manager and other major service providers, and ensures regular communication of the results of monitoring by third parties to the Board, the incidence of significant control failings or weaknesses that have been identified at any time and the extent to which they have resulted in unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that may have a material impact on the Companys performance or condition.
No significant control failings or weaknesses were identified during the course of the year and up to the date of this report, from the Boards on-going risk assessment.
Although the Board believes that it has a robust framework of internal control in place this can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
The Company does not have an internal audit function as it employs no staff and contracts to third parties most of its operations.
The Board will continue to monitor its system of internal control and will continue to take steps to embed the system of internal control and risk management into the operations of the Company.
In doing so, the Audit Committee will review at least annually whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
