Corporate governance report Board attendance in 2013 During the year there were five scheduled and two ad hoc board meetings.
Details of attendance are set out below: Andrew Beeson, Chairman 7 7 Executive Directors Michael Dobson 7 7 Richard Keers 5 5 Philip Mallinckrodt 7 7 Massimo Tosato 7 7 Non-executive Directors Ashley Almanza 7 7 Luc Bertrand 6 7 Implementing the findings Robin Buchanan 7 7 of the 2012 strategic review, Lord Howard 7 7 Nichola Pease 7 7 where we identified a number Bruno Schroder 6 7 of key growth initiatives, has Other Directors who served during the year been a key priority.
Merlyn Lowther 2 2 Kevin Parry 2 2 As the UKs largest listed asset to ensure that the value in both acquisitions management company, Schroders takes is realised fully.
Central to this will be its stewardship responsibilities seriously.
ensuring appropriate oversight and We aim to apply the same high standards governance of the enlarged Group.
of corporate governance as we expect from the companies in which we invest.
Governance framework The Board is responsible for the oversight Schroders Corporate Governance of the management of the Company and Guidelines set out the expectations for ensuring high standards of conduct and responsibilities of the Board, its throughout the business.
In preparing the Committees and the Directors.
With Annual Report and Accounts, the Board continuing change in governance best and its principal Committees have practice and regulatory expectations, considered the provisions of the UK the Guidelines and the Groups other This report is intended to give shareholders Corporate Governance Code, changes core governance documents which a clear and comprehensive picture of the to legislation, regulation and best include the Schedule of Matters Groups governance arrangements and practice corporate reporting and, Reserved to the Board and the terms how they operated during the year.
where appropriate, guidance issued of reference of the Board Committees by stakeholder representative bodies.
have all been reviewed during the year.
The report structure, which follows the They are available on our website.
changes we made in 2012 to improve Implementing the findings of the 2012 transparency, is as follows: strategic review, where we identified a We expect the regulatory and governance number of key growth initiatives, has been environment to continue to evolve, with Responsibilities of the Board a key priority.
These included growing our numerous consultations from domestic and its Committees page 53 : Wealth Management and Fixed Income and international governments and Board focus during 2013 page 54 : businesses and expanding our presence regulators underway.
Therefore, the Boardeffectiveness and diversity in the US.
Groups governance arrangements will page 54 : continue to be an area of focus for the Nominations and Audit and Risk The acquisitions of Cazenove Capital foreseeable future.
Committee reports pages 56 to 62 : and STW, as described on page 32, Compliance with the UK Corporate have delivered on these goals and Governance Code pages 63 to 64 : and complemented our organic growth Andrew Beeson Ownership, capital structure strategy.
Looking ahead, our focus is on Chairman andvoting rights page 65. integrating these businesses successfully 5 March 2014 52 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Responsibilities of the Board accordance with the Companys Articles responsibilities to Board Committees and its Committees of Association.
The Articles of Association and by delegating authority to manage The diagram below explains the may be amended by special resolution the business to the Chief Executive within Groupscore governance framework, of shareholders, unless the Articles specify the constraints set by the Board.
The howauthority is delegated from the otherwise.
The Board is accountable principal Board Committees comprise the Boardand how independent oversight to shareholders for the creation and Nominations Committee, the Audit and atBoard level is organised.
delivery of strong, sustainable financial Risk Committee and the Remuneration performance and long-term shareholder Committee.
Reports from each of these The Board is authorised to manage value.
The Board achieves this through Committees follow.
the business of the Company in its own decision-making, by delegating Governance framework Board Executive Committees Executive staff Independent oversight Accountable to shareholders for Direct access to the Audit the creation and and Risk Committee delivery of strong, Secondary reporting line sustainable performance The Board Committees and long-term are composed entirely shareholder value of non-executive Directors.
Reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Chief Executive Nominations Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee Committee Committee Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for the management reviewing and reviewing and overseeing financial of the business recommending recommending the reporting, risk and strategic changes to the remuneration strategy management and development composition of for the Group and the internal controls the Board and remuneration policy its Committees for the Directors Group Management Chief Financial General Counsel Committee officer Assists the Responsible for Responsible for the Chief Executive financial management, Groups Compliance, in discharging his capital management, Legal and Company responsibilities.
oversight of risk Secretariat functions Functional and systems of responsibilities internal controls delegated to individual members Group Capital Group Risk Group Head Global Head of Group Head of Committee Committee of Risk Compliance Internal Audit Assists the Chief Assists the Chief Identies and quanties Assists the General Provides independent, Financial officer Financial officer risks before and after Counsel in promoting objective assurance in the deployment in discharging his mitigation compliance with to management of operational and responsibilities regulatory requirements and to the Audit investment capital in respect of risk and managing positive and Risk Committee and controls relationships with in respect of risk regulatory authorities management, controls and governance processes Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Corporate governance report continued Chairmans Committee Board focus during 2013 In addition to the principal Board Committees, the Chairman has established the Chairmans Committee, At each of the five scheduled Board theGroups five London offices into a single whose membership is comprised of meetings, theBoard considered reports purpose-built office.
We anticipate all of our the non-executive Directors only, and from the Chief Executive on the performance London-based employees will be together in provides them with an opportunity to of the business, including the core areas of One London Wall Place in 2017.
One scheduled discuss matters without management Investment, Distribution, Wealth Management Board meeting was held in the US and focused present.
This is not a formal Committee and Infrastructure, the Chief Financial Officers on our North American business and strategy.
review of the Groups financial performance, This had been identified as a key growth area including the Groups investment capital during the 2012 strategic review.
Responsibilities of the GMC and liquidity, and reports on matters The Chief Executive delegates specific considered by the Remuneration and During the year the Board also focused on: responsibilities to members of the GMC.
Investment performance: They manage the day-to-day operations The Groups Wealth Management business of the Group and support the Chief During the year the Board oversaw the and strategy: Executive in the delivery of his and the continued implementation of the Groups Equities and Fixed Income businesses: Boards objectives.
This included growing the Wealth The Groups IT strategy including the fortnightly and is chaired by the Chief Management business and our US and Fixed continuing three-year project to introduce Executive.
The members and their Income businesses through the acquisition atransformational IT platform in support areas of responsibility are shown and integration of Cazenove Capital and STW.
ofour fund managers: on pages 50and 51.
More information on these acquisitions can Risk matters including the Groups capital be found in the Operating review on page 32. requirements and ICAAP: Board effectiveness Governance and regulatory developments, The Board is committed to operating There were two ad hoc Board meetings including the Groups remuneration effectively.
The first was to consider the proposed arrangements and policy: which support Board effectiveness are: acquisition of Cazenove Capital.
The second The provision of external audit services: and its composition: how it keeps abreast was toconsider the proposal to move from Board effectiveness.
of developments and the business: and how it monitors its own performance.
Details of the Boards succession planning arrangements are set out in the Induction training Nominations Committee report on page 56.
Details of the Groups development arrangements which include induction, New Directors receive a personalised induction Director, the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
training and ongoing briefing sessions programme to familiarise them with their duties The programme usually involves meeting and performance evaluation are set and the Groups businesses, operations, risks Boardmembers and senior members of the out opposite.
In addition, Directors receive information on the Groups history, strategy Diversity The Company Secretary develops an induction andany material projects under consideration The Board recognises the importance programme in consultation with the new orwhich have been considered recently.
of diversity, and that it is a much wider issue than gender.
Members of the Board should collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise and industry Briefing sessions for Board members knowledge, and business and other experience necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
The Board Briefing sessions are held to inform Directors sessions held in 2013 covered regulatory believes in the value and importance ofdevelopments in the business and the capital requirements, including the Groups of diversity throughout the Group and asset management industry and other ICAAP process, and our joint ventures in has not considered it appropriate, or external factors, for example, changes to India, with Axis Asset Management, and in the interests of the Company or its regulation oraccounting practices.
The in China, with Bank of Communications shareholders, to set prescriptive, effective delivery of briefing sessions is kept Schroder Fund Management Company, and quantitative diversity targets.
under review and Directors are asked to our joint venture with Nippon Life Insurance.
identify any specific development needs.
Directors also attended various external Fundamental to increasing diversity is the The sessions are delivered by management courses relevant to their responsibilities.
development of a pipeline of talented and orexternal advisers, as appropriate.
Briefing diverse employees within the business.
More information on our approach to diversity can be found on page 44 in the Corporate responsibility section.
54 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Board evaluation The 2013 evaluation process was undertaken internally using a combination of meetings between the Chairman and individual Directors and a questionnaire.
Luc Bertrand, as Senior Independent Director, led the evaluation of the Chairman at a meeting with the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The key points arising from the evaluation were documented and discussed with the Chairman.
The overall evaluation process focused on the findings of the 2012 externally facilitated evaluation process, and the actions taken in 2013 to address these findings are set out below.
Area of focus Action Creation of more opportunities outside Board meetings The scheduling of Board Briefings and Chairmans Committee meetings is forunstructured discussion designedto provide non-executive Directors with more opportunities to discuss matters outside formal meetings.
The Chairmans Committee is comprised of non-executive Directors only.
The Chairman meets with non-executive Directors and senior management, including those below Board level, onan ad hoc informal basis which provides an opportunity for matters to be raised outside the normal cycle of meetings.
Enhancement of Group strategy discussions through more During our 2012 strategic review we identified our intention to grow our US business.
analysis of the external landscape One Board meeting was held in the US during 2013 to review progress towards our goal of expanding our presence in the region.
In support of its US strategy discussions, the Board received a presentation from an external US economist, which focused on US monetary policy and its potential influence on the US and global economy.
The Board also reviewed the Wealth Management business and the acquisition of Cazenove Capital, and considered two of the keygrowth areas Equities and Fixed Income.
Assessment of the Boards skills to support the See the Nominations Committee report on page 56.
Groupsstrategy Feedback from the 2013 evaluation process indicated that progress had been made in all these areas.
The performance of the Chief Executive in managing the business was considered by the Chairman and was discussed with the Chief Executive.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Nominations Committee report Committee attendance in 2013 Activities During the year there were two meetings.
We have a Board which is fully compliant with the UK Governance Our focus has been the Details of attendance are set out below: Code requirements and which meets our own objectives of having an appropriate Boards composition Andrew Beeson 2 2 mix of executive Directors, independent and medium-term Ashley Almanza 2 2 non-executive Directors and Directors succession planning.
Luc Bertrand 2 2 with a connection to the principal Robin Buchanan 2 2 shareholder group.
Lord Howard 2 2 Nichola Pease 2 2 There have been no immediate Bruno Schroder 2 2 The focus in 2012 was on the Boards succession issues for the Committee to Other Directors who served during the year short-term succession plans.
Including consider, but it is aware of the need to look Merlyn Lowther 1 1 the appointment of Nichola Pease and to the medium to long term to ensure we Richard Keers, the Board has a good mix always have a strong and effective Board The Chief Executive is usually invited of skills and experience which meet the which meets the requirements of the toattend Committee meetings.
The focus in 2013 Group andits shareholders.
The focus has been on the Boards medium-term in 2013 was therefore on medium-term Responsibilities succession planning.
The role of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board in order In response to the findings of the external to ensure that the composition of the Andrew Beeson evaluation process undertaken in 2012, Board and its Committees is appropriate Chairman of the Nominations Committee the Chairman commissioned the and to ensure appropriate succession 5 March 2014 production of a Board skills matrix which plans are in place.
matched the skills and experience of the non-executive Directors to the Groups keybusiness areas and its strategic aims.
The key areas of the Committees work cover: Reviewing the size and composition Identifying and recommending for the of the Board and its Committees: approval of the Board, potential candidates Board succession planning: to fill Board and Committee vacancies: Making recommendations to the Board Developing and recommending appropriate withrespect to the role, capabilities and time criteria for Director independence: commitment for each appointment, giving Reviewing the terms of appointment for due consideration to the balance of skills, non-executive Directors: and experience and knowledge on the Board Conducting an annual review of the and the benefits of diversity: Committees performance.
The procedure for the appointment of new Directors: 56 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance The matrix was used by the Committee The Committee also reviewed the to help define the outline role profile for Directors standing for election or the next non-executive Director.
The re-election at the Annual General Meeting, Committee considered medium-term Board taking into account their effectiveness, succession in detail in November 2013 and commitment and any conflicts of interest.
agreed to start a search for an additional The Committee reviewed the independence independent non-executive Director.
of the non-executive Directors and concluded that all were independent TheChairman reviewed the process for other than Bruno Schroder, due to his identifying candidates and it was agreed relationship with the principal shareholder that an external search firm should be group.
All Directors standing for election used.
Proposals were considered from or re-election are recommended by the a number of search firms.
Following this, Committee and the Board.
Odgers Berndtson was appointed to undertake the assignment in January Support 2014.
It isindependent of Schroders and The Committee received information and has notacted for the Group on any other support from management during the year matter during the year.
A detailed role to enable it to carry out its duties and specification was produced and the responsibilities effectively.
The Committee search is currently underway, although has the right to appoint external advisers, there is no target date for an appointment.
although none were used during 2013.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity, including the balance of skills, Andrew Beeson experience, gender and nationality, Chairman of the Nominations Committee amongst many other factors when 5 March 2014 reviewing the appointment of new Directors.
The Boards policy on diversity isset out on page 54 and more information on the Groups approach to diversity in thewider business is set out on page 44.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Audit and Risk Committee report Committee attendance in 2013 During the year there were five scheduled meetings and one ad hoc meeting.
Details of attendance are set out below: Ashley Almanza 6 6 Robin Buchanan 6 6 Lord Howard 6 6 Nichola Pease 3 3 Other Directors who served during the year Merlyn Lowther 2 2 Our risk management and internal control framework provides a robust and effective platform to support the business in As both an investor and a listed company, At the invitation of the Chairman of we recognise the importance and value the Committee, the Chairman, Chief responding to regulatory oftransparent company reporting.
Executive, Chief Financial Officer and or commercial developments TheCommittee also supports greater Bruno Schroder attended most meetings.
whilst ensuring the integrity transparency in connection with tax Other regular attendees who advised of our financial reporting.
reporting and Schroders is committed the Committee were the Group Financial to conducting its tax affairs in an open Controller, the heads of Compliance, and transparent way.
More information Risk and Internal Audit and the General on the Groups approach in this area Counsel.
Other members of senior This is my first report as Chairman of the is set out on page 42.
Inthisreport we management were also invited to attend Committee, having taken over from Merlyn describe the role of the Committee and as appropriate.
Representatives from Lowther in May 2013.
Against a backdrop its key areas of focus.
the Groups auditor, PwC, attended all of continuing change, particularly in of the Committees scheduled meetings.
relation to capital requirements, risk management and the external audit Ashley Almanza Private meetings environment, the regulatory obligations Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee During 2013, two private meetings were on asset and wealth management 5 March 2014 held with PwC without management businesses have continued to develop.
Private meetings were also held These have been consistent themes with the Chief Financial Officer and the throughout the Committees discussions heads of the Compliance, Risk and during the year and were taken into Internal Audit functions.
These meetings account when considering the key risks provided an opportunity for matters to affecting the Group.
These are set out be raised confidentially.
The key areas of the Committees work cover: Audit and operational Forward-looking emerging business as usual risks and thematic risks Monitoring the content and integrity of financial reporting: Considering emerging and Reviewing the appropriateness of accounting judgements: thematic risks which may Reviewing the Groups risk and controlframework, have a material impact on the including the Groups whistleblowing procedures: Groups operations in the future.
Reviewing the Groups regulatory processes and procedures and its relationships with regulators: Reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditors: Recommending to the Board the appointmentof external auditors: and Reviewing the Groups internal audit function.
58 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Responsibilities and activities and the Annual Report and Accounts, and intangible assets, provisions and The Committee seeks to encourage before recommending them to the Board contingent liabilities, and retirement andsafeguard high standards of integrity for approval.
The Committee reviews benefit obligations.
The Committee also and conduct, financial reporting, risk whether suitable accounting policies have considered reports from PwC providing management and internal controls.
Its been adopted and whether management an independent assessment of financial activities cover audit andoperational has made appropriate estimates and reporting, an audit opinion on the Annual business as usual issues and risks judgements in connection with the Report and Accounts and an independent aswell as forward-looking emerging preparation of the financial statements.
report on the half-year results.
To assist its reviews, the Committee considered reports prepared by Group The Committee is required to report to The principal areas of the Committees Finance addressing presentational issues, shareholders, in the Annual Report and work in 2013 are summarised below.
business and other developments and Accounts, on the process it follows in its accounting policies.
It also reviewed the review of significant judgemental issues Financial reporting key judgemental issues and estimates, it has considered during the year.
These The Committee is responsible for including those in respect of acquisition significant issues are set out below: reviewing the 2013 half-year results accounting, financial assets, goodwill Significant financial judgements and financial reporting for 2013 How these were addressed The key judgements used in determining Detailed reports were prepared by Group Finance, addressing judgemental issues, accounting the Provisions and Contingent Liabilities developments and estimates.
Reports were also provided regarding actual or potential claims where there is uncertainty over the timing against the Group.
These outlined the assumptions used in determining the level of provisions of settlement or amount.
andcontingent liabilities and, where appropriate, the release of unused provisions.
Judgements, which included an estimate of the potential future outcome of issues and the Groups ability to See note 19 to the accounts.
access insurance, were considered with management and were also discussed in detail with PwC.
As part of this regular review, the Committee reviewed managements assessment of the Groups participation in the US Department of Justice programme, announced on 29 August 2013, that applies industry wide to Swiss banks in order to identify accounts related to clients who may not havebeen US-tax compliant.
The Committee also considered and discussed with management and PwC the work performed by Wealth Management and the external auditors in assessing the value of therelated provision in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the main areas of uncertainty and the appropriateness of the related disclosures contained within this Annual Report andAccounts.
The Committee considers that the judgements made by management in respect of all of the provisions and contingent liabilities are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included inthe accounts.
The accounting for acquisitions during the The Committee considered reports prepared by Group Finance that setout the basis for year, including fair value assessments of determining material components of the acquisitions, including key assumptions used to consideration and assets and liabilities determine the acquired intangible asset and goodwill.
The Committee considered the work acquired and the presentation of certain items performed by Group Finance in establishing the key assumptions, including the term of client as exceptional in the income statement.
relationships, the profit before tax from those relationships and the discount rate.
The Committee also considered the performance of the acquired business since acquisition and whether there See notes 1 and 28 to the accounts.
was any need to impair either goodwill or acquired intangible assets.
Having considered the supporting information, the Committee was satisfied with the basis used to determine the carrying value of those assets and that no impairment was required.
The Committee also reviewed the accounting policy for exceptional itemsand the disclosure of those items in a separate column in the consolidated income statement.
This presentation is considered appropriate asitprovides a transparent view of certain items and the underlying performance of the business.
For 2013 those items mainly comprise theCazenove Capital and STW acquisitions and a provision in respect of the DOJ programme explained above.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Risk management and internal controls responsible for their operation.
Key reports allowed the Committee to consider The Board has overall responsibility for controls in Group Finance are subject to the most significant risks faced by the the Companys system of internal controls external audit as well as being periodically Group and assessments of risk tolerance, and has delegated to the Committee tested by Internal Audit.
as well as the construction, output and responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness stress testing of the ICAAP.
The Groups of the internal controls framework.
Internal Audit reports describe progress Pillar 3 disclosures, which are available against the rolling plan of audits approved onour website, were also reviewed by On behalf of the Board, the Committee by the Committee, any significant findings theCommittee.
Key topics discussed carried out the annual assessment from audits and their subsequent bythe Committee included the Eurozone, oftheeffectiveness of internal controls remediation, and recommendations to regulatory and legal risk, contingent during2013, including those related to improve the control environment.
Following liabilities, operational risk, investment risk, thefinancial reporting process.
In addition, the publication of standards to be applied internal controls, counterparty credit risk, to assist the Committee with its continual by internal audit functions operating in acquisition integration risk and technology assessment of risk management and thefinancial services sector, the reporting risk.
The most significant developments in internal controls, it received quarterly line for the Head of Group Internal Audit therisk profile of the business are set reports from the Group heads of Internal was changed.
The Committee has outon page 35.
Audit, Compliance, Risk and the General authority to appoint or remove the Group Counsel, together with other reports Head of Internal Audit, who now reports The Groups three lines of defence onspecific issues.
directly to the Chairman of the Committee model provides an ongoing process for with a secondary reporting line to the identifying, evaluating and mitigating risks The Companys system is designed to Chief Executive.
The Chairman of the faced bythe Company as set out on page manage rather than eliminate the risk of Committee is accountable for setting the 35.
Theeffectiveness of this model was failure to achieve our strategic goals and objectives of the Group Head of Internal reviewed during the year.
can only provide reasonable assurance Audit, appraising his performance against against material misstatement or loss.
those objectives and for recommending The Committee also focused on specific his remuneration to the Remuneration control recommendations within Wealth As part of its review of the financial Committee, with advice from the Chief Management and received reports and statements, the Committee considered Executive.
The Committee also has considered recommendations to key financial reporting risks arising from responsibility for theInternal Audit budget.
strengthen the investment management changes to the business and accounting process, compliance activities particularly standards.
It also received a report from Compliance reports highlight compliance in respect to monitoring and other control the Group Financial Controller confirming matters, including the status of our activities arising from mandate compliance the operation of the controls over the relationships and dealings with our reviews with respect to certain client financial reporting process including the principal global regulators and other issues investments in mainly unlisted securities.
The report also outlines We also intend to establish an independent outlined the financial reporting control international developments in the regulatory Audit and Risk Committee for the Wealth framework, including the operation of a environment in which the Group operates.
Management business, which will be Group-wide general ledger, consolidation chaired by an independent non-executive system and preventative and detective Risk reports set out changes in the level Director of Schroder & Co. Limited.
controls, which include automated system ornature of the risks faced by the Group, controls on high-volume, low-value developments in risk management and Lessons learned from operational events transactions and key resources significant errors and omissions.
Separate reported to the Committee by Internal Audit or management, together with the ongoing development of the control functions and general market practice, mean there are often areas of development that are monitored through specific reports and periodic updates.
Where appropriate, these developments or the implementation of lessons learned are assessed against a targeted timescale for delivery.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Groups whistleblowing arrangement by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial Group Finance is responsible for the preparation of the Groups financial statements.
60 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance reporting or any other matter relating to In light of its work, the Committee was External auditors objectivity the Groups operations, and for overseeing content with the effectiveness of the and effectiveness arrangements for the proportionate and Groups processes governing financial The Committee places great importance independent investigation of such matters and regulatory reporting, its ethical on the quality and effectiveness of the and for appropriate follow-up action.
standards and its relationships with external audit process.
During the year, the Committee approved regulators.
The Committee was a number of amendments to the Groups satisfied with the appropriateness of the Each year, at the conclusion of the audit, whistleblowing policy.
Groups risk monitoring, internal controls the Committee evaluates the performance framework and lines of defence model.
This includes The Committee also considers emerging anassessment through a questionnaire and thematic risks that may have a material External audit completed by Directors and senior impact on the Group and for which the Our 2012 Annual Report described representatives of relevant functions Group may need to prepare.
During the the audit tender process undertaken across the Group.
In 2013, PwC was year, the Committee considered liquidity last year.
Two firms, PwC and KPMG, assessed on Oversight and Governance: in the fixed income market due to the risk demonstrated better the resource, Quality of Planning and Delivery: People of significant redemptions in the market.
expertise, quality control and audit and Succession: and Value from the The impact of tightening liquidity on the approach to deliver a high standard of Audit.
Audit effectiveness is also assessed business, our position relative to peers audit.
PwC was reappointed at the 2013 throughout the year using a number and other options available in certain Annual General Meeting after KPMG ofmeasures, including: stress scenarios, together with the risk advised the Company that it did not Reviewing the quality and scope of management process, were discussed.
meet the regulatory requirements theproposed audit plan and progress for independence in order to be against the plan: In addition, the Committee considered recommended to shareholders Responsiveness to changes in theGroups increased use of derivatives as the Groups auditors.
ourbusiness: to support the development of our Monitoring the independence and business and was pleased to note During the 2013 audit, PwC addressed transparency of the audit and the investment in enhancements to potential improvements to the audit auditor: and the supporting infrastructure, risk process which were identified during the Reviewing the Financial Reporting management process and controls, tender process.
This included changes to Councils Audit Quality Review AQR taking into account the introduction its senior team and the need for greater reports for the Big Four audit firms.
of central clearing and reporting.
This resulted in the appointment of Andrew There were no significant adverse findings The Groups overall approach to Kailas the lead engagement partner.
In from the 2013 evaluation and the Committee Corporation Tax is reviewed annually.
the light of these changes, the Committee concluded that PwC continued to provide In addition to receiving an assessment has recommended to the Board that PwC a high quality audit.
from management, the Groups approach should be reappointed for the 2014 audit.
to Corporation Tax is discussed with the external auditors.
There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice ofexternal auditors.
Risk reports set out changes in the level or nature of risks faced.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Audit and Risk Committee report continued External auditors independence During the year the total fees paid Evaluating the performance PwC, or its predecessor firms, have been to PwC were: of the Committee the Companys auditors since Schroders The Committees performance is 2013 2012 became a listed company in 1959.
The findings of the m m to help safeguard the independence and review in respect of 2013 were discussed Audit 3.0 2.7 objectivity of the auditors, the Committee by the Committee and with the Chairman Audit-related 0.2 0.3 maintains a policy on the engagement of of theBoard.
Non-audit related the external auditors to provide non-audit Assurance services 0.4 0.3 services.
This precludes the provision of Tax advisory services 0.7 0.6 services that might lead to a conflict of Ashley Almanza Tax compliance services 0.5 0.5 interest and contains rules regarding the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Other non-audit services 1.5 1.5 approval of permitted non-audit services.
5 March 2014 Total non-audit related 3.1 2.9 Total 6.3 5.9 The Committee has delegated authority Percentage of audit to management to consider and approve and audit-related fees to total fees 51% 51% the provision of permitted non-audit services by the auditor with a value for each engagement below 100,000.
Any The Committee was satisfied that the engagement above this level or where total quantity and type of non-audit work fees for non-audit services are expected undertaken did not impair PwCs to exceed certain thresholds, requires independence or objectivity and that prior approval from the Chairman of the their appointments were determined Committee.
Prior to undertaking anynonto be in the best interests of shareholders audit service, PwC also completes its own due to PwCs pre-existing knowledge independence confirmation processes of the Groups practices.
The Groups which are approved by the seniorstatutory overall approach is not to use PwC unless auditor.
To provide the Committee with there is a strong case for not seeking an oversight in this area, it receives six-monthly alternative supplier.
The Group is seeking reports on the non-audit services provided.
to diversify its supplier base, particularly for human resources and certain tax-related services, to reduce the level of non-audit services fees paid to PwC.
The Committee is also responsible for thepolicy on the employment of former employees of the external auditors and apolicy which restricts Group Finance employees from entering into personal arrangements with the external auditors.
The appointment of Richard Keers as Chief Financial Officer complies with our policy and relevant professional rules see page 53 of the 2012 Annual Report & Accounts.
62 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Throughout the year, the Company has on three occasions prior to Board business days between the hours of applied the main principles of the Code meetings.
Matters discussed included 9 a. m. and 5 p. m. and will be available and has complied with all provisions the areas of feedback from the 2012 at the Annual General Meeting.
oftheCode as set out below.
externally facilitated Board evaluation which included strategy and succession planning.
4 Development Copies of the Code can be obtained from Details of the Boards approach to the UK Financial Reporting Councils B: Effectiveness development, including induction website at www.
1 Composition of the Board and training, are set out in the Board The composition and size of the Board effectiveness section on page 54.
A: Leadership and its Committees are reviewed regularly A.
1 Role of the Board by the Nominations Committee to ensure B.
5 Information and support The Board is accountable to shareholders they have the appropriate balance of skills, The Company Secretary ensures that for the creation and delivery of strong, experience, independence and knowledge appropriate and timely information is sustainable financial performance and of the Company to enable them to discharge provided to the Board and its Committees long-term shareholder value.
The Board their respective duties and responsibilities and that there are good information flows meets formally on a regular basis to review effectively.
See the Nominations Committee between senior management and performance and strategy against its report on page 56.
The Company objectives and there is a clear schedule onpages 48 and 49 identify the experience Secretary is responsible for advising and of matters reserved for the Board.
that each Director brings to the Board.
supporting the Chairman and the Board Bruno Schroder does not meet the test on all governance matters.
2 Division of responsibilities forindependence under the UK Corporate have access to the advice and services of The separate roles of the Chairman Governance Code in view of his relationship the Company Secretary and can arrange and Chief Executive are set out in with the principal shareholder group and through him to receive professional advice writing and have been agreed by the because he has served on the Board for independently of the Company, at the Board.
The Chairman is responsible more than nine years.
No-one other than Companys expense.
for the leadership and effectiveness of Committee members is entitled to attend the Board.
The Board delegates some Committee meetings.
6 Evaluation responsibilities to Board Committees attendees at Committee meetings are set Details of the Boards approach to the and the authority to manage the out in the Committees respective reports.
evaluation of its effectiveness are set out business to the Chief Executive.
The Board undertook an The Chief Executive is responsible B.
2 Appointments to the Board externally facilitated evaluation in 2012. for the executive management and The Nominations Committee, which strategic development of the Group comprises all the non-executive Directors, B.
7 Re-election of Directors and its businesses.
leads the process for Board appointments Other than Merlyn Lowther and Kevin and makes recommendations to the Parry, who stepped down from the A.
3 Role of the Chairman Board.
The Nominations Committee Board on 2 May 2013 and 5 May 2013 The Chairman, who was independent on report on page 56 describes the role of respectively, all Directors at that time appointment, is responsible for leading the the Committee.
Therules providing for stood for election or re-election at the 2013 Board, ensuring its effectiveness, setting the appointment, election, re-election Annual General Meeting.
All Directors will agendas for meetings, and promoting and removal of Directors are contained stand for election or re-election at the 2014 aculture of openness and constructive in the Companys Articles of Association.
As Chairman of the Nominations Annual General Meeting sets out relevant Committee, the Chairman also oversees B.
3 Time commitments information to enable shareholders to the Boards succession planning.
The time commitment expected of make an informed decision on the non-executive Directors to discharge election and re-election of Directors.
4 Role of the non-executive Directors their duties is outlined in their terms Non-executive Directors are expected to of appointment.
The Board considers C: Accountability monitor the performance of management the time commitments of all Directors C. 1 Financial and business reporting in meeting agreed objectives while standing for election or re-election before The Directors statement of responsibilities satisfying themselves on the integrity of recommending them to shareholders.
for the preparation of the Annual Report financial information and that financial The Board has adopted a policy that does and Accounts, which, when taken as a controls and risk management systems not allow executive Directors normally whole, is considered fair, balanced are robust and appropriate.
to take up more than one non-executive andunderstandable and as providing the directorship.
Non-executive Directors are information necessary for shareholders The non-executive Directors participate required to notify the Chairman before to assess the Companys performance, fully in open and constructive Board and taking on any additional non-executive business model and strategy, is set out Committee meetings and their views are appointments.
Details of external on page 83.
The going concern statement actively sought, particularly when setting appointments are set out on pages 48 can be found on page 82.
During the year and 49. Letters of appointment and service report is on pages 2 to 45 and 86 to 97. the Chairman and non-executive Directors contracts are available for shareholders to also met, as the Chairmans Committee, view at the Companys registered office on Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code continued C. 2 Risk management and E: Relations with shareholders internalcontrol E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Board determines the nature and The Board ensures that the Company extent of the significant risks it is willing maintains a relationship with shareholders to take in achieving its strategic goals and through a regular programme of maintains sound risk management and presentations and meetings to inform internal control systems that are reviewed institutional investors, analysts and annually.
The activities of the Audit and Risk prospective shareholders, attended by Committee, which supports the Board in the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer discharging this responsibility, are set out and other senior executives.
The systems can provide only holds in excess of 100 such meetings reasonable and not absolute assurance each year.
Information about significant against material financial misstatement developments, financial statements and or loss and are designed to mitigate, other corporate information is made not eliminate, risk.
The responsibilities available on our website.
Feedback from in respect of risk and internal control do shareholders is reported to the Board not extend to the Groups joint ventures as appropriate.
The Senior Independent Director is C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors available to shareholders as an alternative The Audit and Risk Committee report on means of communication with the Board pages 58 to 62 describes the responsibilities should they have concerns that cannot of the Committee and how it ensures the be resolved by discussions with the auditors objectivity, effectiveness and Chairman or executive Directors.
The report also describes the change to the reporting line E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM of the Head of Group Internal Audit to the The Annual General Meeting provides Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
shareholders with an opportunity to question the Board.
The Chief Executive D: Remuneration provides a review of the Groups D. 1 Level and components performance and informs shareholders ofremuneration ofthe first quarter results.
The Annual Details on Directors remuneration Report and the Notice of Annual General and how the Company promotes the Meeting are available to shareholders at alignment of interests between Directors, least 20working days before the meeting.
clients andshareholders by linking reward All Directors are available to attend the toperformance are explained in the Annual General Meeting and the results Remuneration report on page 66. ofthe poll on the resolutions proposed arepublished on the Companys website D. 2 Procedure for developing policy as soon after the meeting as practicable.
onexecutive remuneration The Groups approach to setting remuneration policy is set out in the Remuneration report on page 66.
64 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Ownership, capital structure and voting rights Schroders has developed under stable At the 2013 Annual General Meeting Under the terms of the Schroders ownership for more than 200 years and shareholders gave approval for the Employee Benefit Trust and the Schroders has been a public company listed on Company to buy back up to 14,100,000 US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust, the trustees the London Stock Exchange since non-voting ordinary shares.
Shareholders may vote in any way they think fit.
The Schroder family interests are also renewed the Directors authority to so, they may consider the financial and in shares owned by trusts settled by issue non-voting ordinary shares up to an non-financial interests of the beneficiaries members of the family and in personal aggregate nominal value of 5,000,000 and their dependents.
Relevant statutory and inorder to provide the Directors with of the Share Incentive Plan see page 81, regulatory disclosures are set out in theflexibility to issue non-voting ordinary shares are held in trust on behalf of plan the table below.
shares or to grant rights to subscribe for, participants.
At the participants direction, or convert securities into, non-voting the trustees can exercise the voting rights The Companys share capital is ordinary shares.
Renewal of these in respect of their share entitlements.
comprised of ordinary shares of 1 authorities will be sought at the 2014 each and non-voting ordinary shares Annual General Meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of 1 each.
Both are listed on the of the Companys shares save for: London Stock Exchange.
At the start of the year there were restrictions imposed by laws 56,505,600 non-voting ordinary shares and regulations: 226,022,400 ordinary shares were in inissue, of which 81,097 were held in restrictions on the transfer of shares issuethroughout the year.
During the year 1,792,035 imposed under the Companys Articles has no authority to issue orbuy back any non-voting ordinary shares were issued of Association or under Part 22 of the ordinary shares.
and, as the Company does not intend to UK Companies Act 2006, in either case increase the issued share capital over following a failure to supply information The non-voting ordinary shares were the medium term, 1,521,468 non-voting required to be disclosed following created in 1986 to facilitate the operation of ordinary shares were bought back and service of a request under section 793 an employee share plan without diluting the cancelled.
The 81,097 non-voting ordinary of the UK Companies Act 2006: and voting rights of ordinary shareholders.
The shares held in treasury were also cancelled.
restrictions on the transfer of shares non-voting ordinary shares carry the same Theresult of these transactions was that heldunder certain employee share plans rights as ordinary shares except that they as at 31 December 2013, 56,695,070 while they remain subject to the plan.
do not provide the right to attend and vote non-voting ordinary shares were in issue, at general meetings of the Company and none of which were held in treasury.
The Company is not aware of any that, on a capitalisation issue, they carry agreement between shareholders which the right to receive non-voting ordinary Between 1 January 2014 and 5 March may restrict the transfer of securities or shares rather than ordinary shares.
2014 inclusive, being the latest practicable voting rights.
date before the publication of this Annual When the non-voting ordinary shares Report, a further 189,470 non-voting were created the ratio of ordinary shares ordinary shares have been bought-back to non-voting ordinary shares was 4:1.
The and cancelled and the number of nonCompany has at times issued non-voting voting ordinary shares in issue as at ordinary shares, principally in connection 5 March 2014 was 56,505,600. with the Groups employee share plans.
The Company has not intended and does not intend to increase the issued non-voting ordinary share capital over the medium Substantial shareholdings term and therefore has, at times, bought As at 31 December 2013, the Company had received notifications, in accordance back non-voting ordinary shares.
withthe FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R, of interests in three per cent.
ormore of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set outin the table below.
There had been no changes to these notifications as at the date of this report.
of voting % of voting Class of rights held rights held Notifier shares indirectly indirectly 1 Vincitas Limited Ordinary 60,724,609 26.87 1 Veritas Limited Ordinary 36,795,041 16.28 2 Flavida Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 2 Fervida Limited Ordinary 40,188,706 17.78 Harris Associates L. P. Ordinary 15,969,200 7.07 1 Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited act as trustees of certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
2 The interests of Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited include interests in voting rights in respect of all the shares in which Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are interested as trustees.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65
