Report of the Audit Committee The audit committee comprises the whole board and is chaired Significant Issues by James MacLeod.
The committee considers the risks that may have an impact on the companys financial statements.
The audit committee has written terms of reference which are shown on the companys website.
Its duties include risk The valuation and ownership of the companys investments are assessment, reviewing internal controls, the companys risks.
Investments are valued in accordance with the accounting accounting policies, financial statements prior to their policy on page 25.
The prices of all investments are agreed with release and the companys procedures on whistleblowing.
an independent source and the ownership of each investment The committee is also responsible for all aspects of the agreed through confirmation received from the companys companys relationship with its external auditor including: independent global custodian Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the annual audit: the auditors remuneration: The incomplete or inaccurate recognition of income in the the terms of engagement: and financial statements are risks.
Internal control systems, including the level of non-audit work, if any, carried out by the auditor.
frequent reconciliations, are in place to ensure income is fully accounted for.
The board is provided with information on the companys income account at each meeting.
Internal Controls The company does not have an internal audit function as the audit committee believes that the companys straightforward Auditor structure and small number of employees do not warrant such Assessment a function.
This is reviewed by the committee annually.
The companys auditor is Deloitte LLP, who were appointed in 2002.
The committee reviews annually the services provided and The committee is responsible for ensuring that the company the related fees.
The corporate governance provisions relating has in place an effective system of internal controls designed to audit tenure have been reviewed and the committee is of the to maintain the integrity of accounting records and to safeguard opinion there is no need to conduct a competitive tender at the the companys assets.
The committee has applied the UK present time.
The fees for audit and non-audit services are Corporate Governance Code by establishing a continuous 27,000 2012: 33,000 and 17,000 2012: 16,000 respectively.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant These are shown in more detail in Note 2 on page 30. risks the company faces.
The audit committee reviews and approves any non-audit In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the services provided by the auditor and assesses the impact of any committee reviews the effectiveness of the companys system non-audit work on the ability of the auditor to remain independent.
of internal control at six-monthly intervals.
Independence The committees monitoring covers all controls, including The committee has satisfied itself of the continuing independence financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk of Deloitte LLP.
The committee confirms the level of non-audit management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from work undertaken does not compromise independence.
management and considering whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, and whether Re-appointment of auditor any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or require A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys more extensive monitoring.
During the course of its review of auditor, and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration, the system of internal control, the committee has not identified, will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
nor been advised of, any material failings or weaknesses.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
The audit committee assists Disclosure of information to auditor the board in discharging its review responsibilities.
It is the companys policy to allow the auditor unlimited access to its records.
The directors confirm that, so far as each of There are procedures in place to ensure that: them is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which all transactions are accounted for accurately and reported the companys auditor is unaware and they have taken all fully to the board: the steps which they should have taken as directors in order management observes the authorisation limits set by to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information the board: and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of there is clear segregation of duties so that no investment that information.
This confirmation is given and should be transaction can be completed by one person: interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 control activities are regularly checked: and of the Companies Act 2006. legal and regulatory obligations are met.
The committee recognises that such systems can only provide reasonable, but not guaranteed, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
James MacLeod Director 12 December 2013 20 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013
