42 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors The Directors report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Conflicts of interest statement, the Strategic report, the Performance and financial review, The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider the Corporate Governance report and the Remuneration report, which and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest are incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the this report.
The Board considers that the procedures it has in place for reporting and considering conflicts of interest are effective.
The following specific issues are discussed in the sections shown in brackets: Key contractual arrangements There are no persons with whom the Group or Company has achievements in respect of the Groups Key Performance contractual or other arrangements, whom are deemed to be essential Indicators KPIs in 2013 and the KPIs set for 2014 Strategic report to the business of the Group or Company.
see pages 20 and 21 financial performance in 2013 Performance and financial review Employees see pages 23 to 33 Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is given principal operational risks and risk management Strategic report in note 6 on page 88. see pages 17 to 19 treasury policy and financial risk management Performance and Carillions core values as detailed on page 17 help to differentiate financial review see page 32 Carillion from its competitors by creating a culture in which everyone social, community and environmental issues Sustainability report in Carillion is encouraged to understand the needs of their customers see pages 34 to 37 and to work in partnership with customers and suppliers to deliver resources and employees Strategic report see page 14 and Report high-quality, value-for-money services.
of the Directors see pages 42 and 43.
Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and the Analysis of revenue and net assets by operating segment and Group is committed to improving their skills through training and geographical location are given in note 2 on pages 83 to 86. development and through nurturing a culture in which employees feel valued for the contributions they make to the Company and motivated Share capital to achieve their full potential.
Carillion has only one class of shares, with one vote for every share.
It is Carillions aim to foster a working environment in which all Profits and dividends employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
Carillion The consolidated income statement is shown on page 74.
Profit before strives continually to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination in tax was 110.6 million 2012: 164.8 million.
relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and members of the public.
Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible, A 2013 interim dividend of 5.5 pence per ordinary share retrained or provided with equipment that enables them to continue 2012: 5.4 pence was paid in November 2013.
It is proposed to pay a their employment.
final dividend of 12.0 pence per ordinary share 2012: 11.85 pence on 13 June 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business The objectives of Carillions Equal Opportunity and Diversity Policy on 16 May 2014.
The payment of these 2013 interim and final dividends are to: amounts to 75.2 million 2012: 72.9 million.
have a workforce that represents and responds to the diversity of A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered allowing customers and society in general shareholders a convenient means of reinvesting their dividends in the improve safety and quality provided by a balanced and productive Company by buying further shares.
If required, a DRIP application form workforce is available from the share registrar, Equiniti see page 121 for contact reduce staff turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels details.
provide a fair working environment in which discrimination will not be tolerated Directors create a working environment free from discrimination, The Directors of the Company who served during 2013 are shown on harassment, victimisation and bullying page 61 of the Remuneration report.
Biographical details for each work towards finding ways for underrepresented groups to fully Director at 31 December 2013 are given on pages 40 and 41. realise their potential within Carillion and take reasonable steps to help such groups In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance ensure that all employees are aware of the Equal Opportunities Code, all Directors will offer themselves either for election or re-election and Diversity Policy and to provide any necessary ongoing training at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2014.
Richard Adam and to enable them to meet their responsibilities under it Richard Howson have contracts of service which are subject to one recognise the merits of developing a workforce that incorporates years notice of termination by the Company.
the many diverse skills and backgrounds available from within the total population and, accordingly, will strive to be an organisation The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of that will recognise, value and understand diversity and provides all the Company are shown in the Report of the Directors on page 44. employees with opportunities to develop and reach their full potential Indemnity ensure that all applicants are treated fairly during recruitment To the extent permitted by the Companies Acts, the Company may processes and in accordance with relevant legislation and Codes indemnify any Director, Secretary or other officer of the Company of Practice against any liability and may purchase and maintain insurance against regularly review procedures and selection criteria for promotion to any liability.
The Company purchased and maintained throughout 2013 ensure that individuals are selected and treated according to their Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 43 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Carillion places great importance on open and regular communication On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder with employees through both formal and informal processes.
As part of of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote this commitment, a Group publication, Spectrum, is produced on a shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares regular basis for all employees.
present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The views of employees on matters affecting their interests and the success of Carillion are also sought through The Great Debate, People The notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising Forums, Team Talks, Chief Executives Leadership Team lunches, and voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to one-to-one meetings between employees and their line managers.
resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each The Great Debate is a major exercise involving a wide range of resolution are announced and published on the Companys website employees that form a statistically significant sample.
The results of after the meeting.
each Great Debate are used to inform and guide the development of work related initiatives as part of Carillions strategy to be an employer There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the of choice.
The Great Debate forms part of the Groups ongoing Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that are imposed programme to: from time to time by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct engage with employees to improve motivation and morale Authority, Directors and certain officers and employees of the Group empower employees to contribute to the Groups development require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares of the both as an employer and as a business Company.
demonstrate Carillions commitment to listening to, and responding to, the views of its employees.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
In 2013, Carillion set up an international action group to address the feedback received through The Great Debate which has led to a number Substantial share interests of changes including the introduction of improved flexible working As at 5 March 2014, the Company had received formal notification of the arrangements that are open to all.
following holdings of voting rights in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority: Carillion also involves, engages and consults with employees through People Forums, which give employees an opportunity to express their Nature % of issued of interest share capital held views on business issues.
The main objectives of the People Forums are to: Ameriprise Financial Inc. and its group Direct 0.06 Indirect 4.82 improve employee information and consultation Total 4.88 help employees feel more involved and valued Eaga Partnership Trusts Direct 1.96 support the continued education and development of employees Indirect 1.96 improve business performance by improving the awareness of Total 3.92 employees to the business climate in which they operate F&C Asset Mangement plc Indirect 4.47 help employees to be responsive and better prepared for change.
HBOS plc Direct 1.91 Team Talks, which are held monthly, provide Carillion employees with Indirect 3.08 a face-to-face communication with their line managers and facilitate Total 4.99 two-way communication, discussion and feedback.
They focus on local Schroders plc Indirect 4.97 issues and key corporate messages.
One-to-one meetings between Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct 2.95 individual employees and their line managers are also held to discuss Indirect 2.02 performance and progress in order to help all employees to develop Total 4.97 and reach their full potential.
Templeton Global Advisors Limited Indirect 5.22 UBS Investment Bank Direct 3.12 Employees can also exchange best practice information via BusinessXchange and Yammer on the Group intranet.
Change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its cutting edge programmes control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as loan to integrate safety into every aspect of the Groups operations and to agreements and share incentive plans.
improve its environmental performance, including the understanding and application of the principles of sustainability.
For example, a major Carillions main credit facilities, including the 770 million Syndicated new campaign focused on employee health, Health Like Safety, was Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility, contain a provision such that in launched in 2014. the event of a change of control any lender may, within a 30-day consultation period and if it so requires, notify the Company that it Further information on Health & Safety is given in the Strategic review wishes to cancel its commitment.
Any such cancellation of commitment on page 21 and on Sustainability in the Sustainability review on pages and the repayment of any outstanding borrowings will occur on the 34 to 37. date falling three days after the expiry of the consultation period.
Capital and shareholders As at 31 December 2013, the issued share capital of the Company comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
Details of shares issued during the year and outstanding options are given in Notes 23 and 25 on pages 100 and 101 to the consolidated financial statements which form part of this report.
Details of the share incentives in place are also provided on pages 64 and 65 of the Remuneration report.
44 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors continued Charitable and political contributions Additional information for shareholders Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the year With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the ended 31 December 2013 amounted to 200,000 2012: 200,000.
Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate The primary beneficiaries of these charitable donations were The Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
Wildlife Trust, Business in the Community, CRASH, Barnardos and The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution Walking With The Wounded.
The powers of the Board are described in the Corporate Governance report on pages 45 to 49.
Carillion launched its new national charity partnership in December 2013, with Barnardos, one of the UKs leading childrens charities.
Formed in Annual General Meeting 1867, Barnardos now has over 900 services and projects based in local The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on 7 May 2014 communities across the UK and supports thousands of disadvantaged at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham B1 2NP.
The notice children and their families every year with help ranging from emergency of the Annual General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report accommodation to counselling and training.
This new charity partnership and Accounts.
aligns with Carillions sustainability strategy and in particular the commitment to building sustainable communities.
It means that Carillion Included in the AGM business is the proposal to renew the authority will be working closely with Barnardos to support the charity through for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2013, volunteering and fundraising, and it provides opportunities for Carillion the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of people to play a part in their local communities and join together with 43,025,462 of its own shares.
colleagues, customers, suppliers, friends and family to help young people across the UK.
Carillion people have the skills and expertise that Barnardos Disclosure of information to auditors needs in volunteers: project management, training, mentoring and The Directors of Carillion plc confirm that at the date of this Report of coaching, plus practical construction and services skills which can be the Directors and as far as they are individually aware, there is no put to great use on a range of projects.
There will also be more strategic relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each opportunities to work with Barnardos which is extensively involved Director has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit in the social care, education and justice sectors, as well as being a information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of provider of training and apprenticeships to young people.
To mark the launch of the new partnership, a donation of 20,000 Auditor was made to Barnardos and earmarked for its Invisible Walls Project KPMG Audit Plc have notified the Company that it has instigated an Birmingham which supports children and families affected by orderly wind-down of the business.
The Board has decided to put imprisonment.
Based on successful work that Barnardos has KPMG LLP forward to be appointed as auditor and resolutions to established at HMP Parc in South Wales, the Birmingham project aims appoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to to support families in the local community.
By working with prisoners determine its remuneration will therefore be proposed at the to maintain family contact and improve visitor facilities so that prison Annual General Meeting.
visits are less frightening for children, Barnardos hopes to turn around the lives of children affected by parental imprisonment.
The work will Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions also contribute to existing rehabilitation programmes.
In the table below, we report CO emissions from the sources required 2 under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors The Carillion Group also contributes the equivalent of one per cent of Report Regulations 2013.
We have used the GHG reporting protocol profits per annum in cash or in-kind staff time on community projects to calculate our GHG emissions for 2013, based on data gathered to to community activities and is a corporate member of Business in fulfil our requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme and the Community.
on emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
We have quoted figures for The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during all sources whose costs are included in the consolidated financial the period under review.
We do not record fugitive emissions as these are not part of our core operations.
Financial instruments Information on the Carillion Groups use of financial instruments, Global Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions Data for the period financial risk management objectives and policies and exposure is 1 January to 31 December 2013 given in note 27 on pages 102 to 106 of the consolidated financial Emissions from CO tonnes 2 statements.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 157,293 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for Directors share interests own use Scope 2 19,786 Ordinary shares Transport, paper and others including electricity, The beneficial interests of the Directors, their immediate families and gas WTT and electricity WTT Scope 3 16,241 connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company as Chosen intensity metric: at 31 December 2013 are shown below.
Emissions tonnes per million revenue 47.4 As at As at 1 January 31 December 2013 2013 Approved by order of the Board.
Fully paid 50p ordinary shares owned: Number Number Executive Director Richard Adam 157,004 118,238 Richard Howson 67,572 85,341 Richard Tapp Non-Executive Directors Andrew Dougal 5,000 5,000 Secretary 5 March 2014 Philip Green 10,000 10,000 1 2 Alison Horner Nil Nil Steve Mogford Nil Nil Vanda Murray 12,300 12,300 Philip Rogerson 39,630 39,630 1 Alison Horner was appointed to the Board in December 2013.
There has been no change in Directors interests in the period 1 January 2014 to 5 March 2014.
