50 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Audit Committee Reviewing the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function, Dear Shareholder, the results of its audit work and the response of management Reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and its cost I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the effectiveness financial year ended 31 December 2013.
This report describes the Ensuring that the internal and external audit functions are Committees ongoing responsibilities and key tasks as well as its major complementary areas of activity over the last year.
Monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and ensuring that the services provided including non-audit services The key elements of our role are to review and report to the Board on have a proper balance between objectivity and value for money the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management Recommending to the Board, the appointment, reappointment or processes and the performance, independence and effectiveness of removal of the external auditor.
the auditor, KPMG Audit Plc.
The Audit Committee met on four occasions in 2013 and dealt with the The assurance framework required by the Audit Committee is provided following matters: by complementary contributions from management reports, internal Feb July August Dec and external audit reports and from risk management reports.
Financial reporting and significant As Chairman of the Committee, I have regular meetings with both the financial judgements Companys external and internal auditors, Richard Adam, the Group Full year results and associated Finance Director and Robin Herzberg, the Group Head of Risk, in which announcements key issues relevant to the Committees work are discussed.
In addition, Half-year results and associated I and my colleagues on the Committee visit contract operations in both announcements the support services and construction areas of the business in order Going concern report to maintain a more detailed understanding of the Groups businesses, External audit which together with the reports we receive, facilitates the ongoing Review and consideration of the Audit effective operation of the Committee.
Memorandum In order to ensure that we remain at the forefront of best practice, the Board representation letter Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually.
In 2013, the Evaluation of external audit function terms of reference were updated in respect of The Companies Act 2006 Re-appointment recommendation to Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, which resulted the Board in some minor changes.
The updated terms of reference can be viewed Fees for non-statutory audit activities at www.
com or a copy obtained on request from the Audit plan Company Secretary.
Year end audit plan update Members attendance at meetings held during the year ended Committee meeting with external 31 December 2013 auditor Meeting Internal audit Committee member attendance Internal audit report A Dougal Chairman 4 Evaluation of internal audit function P Green 4 2014 Internal audit plan S Mogford 3 Peer review plan for 2014 V Murray 4 Committee meeting with head of A Horner 1 internal audit Mr Mogford was unable to attend the December meeting of the Audit Committee due to Other regulatory commitments.
Alison Horner was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 December 2013.
Annual review of terms of reference Annual evaluation of the Committee The Committee benefits from the skills and experience gained by its Compliance with the UK Corporate members from current and former senior executive roles and from Governance Code and the Financial their experience as Non-Executive Directors in other companies.
Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules Other attendees We also have in attendance at meetings, by invitation of the Committee, In addition to the above meetings in 2013, at its meeting in February 2014, the Chairman, Executive Directors, representatives of both the external the Committee reviewed the Companys financial statements and other auditors KPMG Audit Plc and the internal auditors Deloitte LLP and the relevant disclosures in this 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee also meets privately with both the external and internal auditors.
Financial reporting and significant judgements The Committee is responsible for reviewing whether suitable accounting The Committee is authorised by the Board to i seek any information policies have been adopted and whether management has made necessary to fulfil its duties, ii call any member of staff to be questioned appropriate estimates and judgements in the preparation of the at a meeting of the Committee as and when required and iii obtain financial statements.
In respect of the financial statements for the year independent legal, accounting or other professional advice, at the ended 31 December 2013, the significant issues reviewed and how these Companys expense, which might be necessary for the fulfilment of issues were addressed are summarised below: its duties.
Revenue and margin recognition Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year to Note 32 on page 111 of the financial statements describes the estimation 31December 2013 techniques used by management to determine the amount of revenue and The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are as follows: costs to be recognised in relation to construction and services contracts including licensing income.
Given the Companys extensive portfolio of Monitoring and reviewing the Companys internal and risk contracts, a significant proportion of the Committees time is spent on management control systems on behalf of the Board reviewing contract judgements.
During 2013, the Committee reviewed Reviewing the integrity of the Companys financial statements, the positions and judgements taken by management on a number of including its annual and half-year reports, interim management material contracts across the Group, including the impact on working statements and any other formal announcement relating to capital performance and the assessment of licensing income, through its financial performance, together with significant financial discussions with management and the external auditor.
On the basis reporting issues and any judgements they contain of these discussions, the Committee concluded that the positions and Considering the impact of changes to accounting regulations judgements taken by management in relation to the contracts reviewed Overseeing the financial and accounting policies of the Carillion Group were reasonable.
Ensuring compliance with statutory and other external requirements Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 51 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Valuation of goodwill Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of Note 11 on page 92 of the financial statements describes the estimation significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the techniques used by management to assess whether there has been an design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
These impairment to the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets.
risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a The Committee considered and critically reviewed the assumptions used variety of internal or external sources, including control breakdowns, in managements impairment calculations and considered the views of disruption to information systems, competition, corporate social the external auditor on this issue.
This included a review of the sensitivity responsibility, natural catastrophes and regulatory requirements.
analysis undertaken by management and the external auditor.
On the Management is supported in this process by a system of peer reviews, basis of this review, the Committee agreed with management that no under which the performance of individual contracts is reviewed by impairment to goodwill was necessary.
Robust summaries of the peer review reports are provided to, and reviewed by, the Audit Committee.
Non-recurring operating items Note 4 on page 87 of the financial statements describes the nature of the Management is also responsible for timely and accurate reporting of 42.9 million of non-recurring operating items recognised in relation to business performance and for ensuring compliance with the policies restructuring costs in the year.
The Committee considered the accounting set by the Board.
Regular performance review meetings are held in treatment and disclosure of these costs in the financial statements which senior managers report to the Executive Directors on business through a detailed review of managements plans in relation to the performance, risk and internal control matters.
The results of these restructuring.
The Committee also sought the views of the external meetings are presented to the Board.
auditor in relation to the appropriateness of the accounting treatment and disclosures.
On the basis of this review, the Committee concluded The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts as the that the accounting treatment and disclosures in relation to these sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions including restructuring costs were appropriate.
capital expenditure, major contracts and company and business acquisitions and disposals.
This Committee has delegated authority Other matters considered by the Audit Committee up to specified levels of risk as determined by a risk assessment matrix, Cash flow and working capital beyond which Board approval is required.
The Groups processes for the management of cash flow and working capital are key areas to which the Committee has paid particular attention, In addition, practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group especially during the period over which the Group has been rescaling its policy and procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels UK construction activities.
The Committee is satisfied that these processes for commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of have continued to work well, with the rescaling process successfully guarantees and management accounting as well as for reporting and completed by the end of 2013. resolving suspected fraudulent activities.
Control environment The Board has a policy to prosecute individuals found to have defrauded During 2013, there were a number of changes to the control environment, the Company or its subsidiaries.
To minimise the occurrence of fraud, with the outsourcing of some central shared services.
learning points for management are identified and action plans implemented.
Overall, the Committee noted a smooth transition and an ongoing strong Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice control environment.
at the earliest possible stage and a confidential Whistleblowing hotline provided by an independent third party is available.
Risk management and Internal Control The Board is ultimately responsible for i determining the nature A monthly report on issues raised on the Whistleblowing hotline and and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its subsequent investigations is compiled by the Whistleblowing and Fraud strategic objectives and, in this regard, the Board maintains risk Committee and forwarded to the Board.
management and internal control systems and ii that the Groups systems for risk management and internal control are appropriate The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in the business and the external environment that affect significant risks.
The Group Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial Additionally, the Board has established formal and transparent information, which includes key performance indicators and a summary arrangements for considering how it should apply the corporate reporting, of risk.
These key performance indicators and risks are listed in the Strategic review on pages 21 and 22.
Where areas for improvement are identified, risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
the Board considers the recommendations made by both the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Audit Committee monitored and reviewed the Internal controls effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, including its risk management procedures, and reported thereon to the Board.
It is The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
acknowledged that such systems can provide only reasonable and This responsibility includes clearly determining the control environment and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal control system.
However, as previously stated, such a system can provide only reasonable and not The risk management and internal control procedures and environment absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
within the Carillion Group are as follows: Deloitte LLP provide the internal audit function for the Carillion Group.
Risk management The Group Head of Risk, Robin Herzberg, is responsible for advising on In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal Control: strategic risk issues across the Group, and for oversight of risk training.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that The Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks both financial and non-financial and including independent appraisal of all projects before submission to the Major Projects Committee see below.
This appraisal ensures that the Corporate Social Responsibility risks faced by the Group including joint differentiating factors of the Groups offer have been properly identified, ventures and overseas businesses.
The process has been in place for the thus maximising the opportunities available: it also involves ensuring year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
that all inherent and residual risks associated with the project have been properly identified and considered.
52 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Audit Committee continued Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls across the These controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate confidence Group is provided through a combination of techniques.
in the independence of KPMG Audit Plc in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Internal audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by the The overall performance of the auditor is reviewed annually by the business and reports its findings to management, the Executive Audit Committee, which in addition to the completion of a detailed Directors and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Plan is presented to questionnaire by all of the Committee members, also takes into account and approved by the Audit Committee annually the views of management.
Feedback is then provided to senior Recommendations to improve the system of control are made by members of KPMG Audit Plc unrelated to the audit.
This activity also Internal audit.
The implementation of these recommendations is forms part of KPMG Audit Plcs own system of quality control.
In each of followed up and reported on quarterly its meetings, the Audit Committee has discussions with the auditor, Internal audit independently reviews the risk identification without management being present, on the adequacy of controls and procedures and control processes implemented by management on any judgemental areas.
These discussions have proved satisfactory.
A process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the Group where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and In its evaluation of the external audit function, the Committee concluded certify controls in operation to ensure the control environment in that it was satisfied with the work of KPMG Audit Plc and that KPMG their business areas is appropriate.
They also confirm annually, in Audit Plc continued to be effective, objective and independent.
writing, that risk management processes and appropriate controls Accordingly, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board the are in place and are operating effectively reappointment of KPMG and for this to be put to shareholders at the Internal audit advises on aspects of the design and application of 2014 AGM.
The reappointment was approved by shareholders at the internal controls in key business projects and on policy and AGM held on 1 May 2013. procedure changes.
External audit tendering Internal audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 requires that FTSE 350 Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and ensures that the companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least level of confidence required by the Board is obtained.
It also ensures the every 10 years or provide an explanation of why it is considered not financial reporting process is credible and reliable.
The Audit Committee appropriate to do so.
In addition, it is likely that European Union legislation presents its findings to the Board regularly and the Head of Internal Audit will in due course require public interest entities to rotate audit firms after has direct access to the Audit Committee members.
an engagement period of 10 years, with such engagements being eligible for an extension of a further 10 years, subject to a competitive tender Any significant internal control issues would be disclosed in this report.
being undertaken by the entity.
These developments are also consistent On the basis of the assurances given in 2013, no disclosures in this with the measures recommended by the UKs Competition Commission, respect are required.
following its investigation into the market for the provision of statutory audit services to large companies.
One of the main recommendations Oversight of external audit from the Commissions findings is to require FTSE 350 companies to put Both the Audit Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the their statutory audit engagement out to tender at least every 10 years.
objectivity of the Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, in their reporting to shareholders.
KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as the Companys auditor at its inception in 1999.
The Audit Committee continues to annually monitor and test The KPMG Audit Plc Director is present at Audit Committee meetings auditor independence through a range of measures.
In addition, KPMGs to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
performance is reviewed in detail annually: as part of this review, the Committee considers the scope of KPMGs work, their effectiveness The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the and the quality of reporting.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit Committee after discussions between the businesses and the local KPMG Audit Plc offices Taking into account the Board changes referred to in the Chairmans and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Rotation of Audit Directors Statement see page 5 that affect the composition of the Audit responsibilities within KPMG Audit Plc is required by their professions Committee, the Committee concluded that in order to maintain and ethical standards.
The current Audit Director responsible for the Carillion ensure continuity during and immediately following this period of change engagement is in his fifth year of signing the report.
There is also rotation of it would not be appropriate to put the audit out to tender in 2014.
The key members within the audit team.
Committee intends to keep this area under regular review as all of the regulatory requirements and the associated transitional arrangements Assignments awarded to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates have been are more clearly established.
and are subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
Audit Committee members fees In summary, the following procedures and controls are applied.
The members of the Committee receive fees as Non-Executive Directors that also reflect their membership of the Audit Committee and other Audit related services: as auditor this is the main area of work of Board committees.
There is also an additional fee for the role of Chairman KPMG Audit Plc and its associates.
If any additional accounting of the Audit Committee.
Details of remuneration are given on page 61. support is required then this is considered competitively Tax consulting: in cases where they are best suited, Carillion uses KPMG Audit Plc and its associates, but the Group also uses other tax consultancies General and systems consulting: all significant consulting projects are subject to competitive tender.
Andrew Dougal The Group Finance Director is required to give prior approval of non-audit Chairman of the Audit Committee work carried out by KPMG Audit Plc and its associates in excess of a 5 March 2014 predetermined threshold.
In addition, any such work incurring fees in excess of 250,000 is discussed with me prior to its commencement.
These measures are designed to ensure that other potential providers of the services required have been adequately considered.
Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc can be found in note 3 on page 87.
In addition, the Audit Committee is closely monitoring European Union proposals which are expected to prohibit the provision of certain services by the auditor and cap the amount of fees generated from the provision of permitted non-audit services at no more than 70 per cent of the audit fee.
The Committee does not anticipate any issues in achieving compliance with these requirements once they are enacted into legislation.
