Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 45 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance report Governance Ethical procurement.
Carillion seeks to ensure that it maintains its The Board is firmly committed to the highest standards of corporate ethical standards and behaves respectfully when working with others.
governance and considers that good governance commences with The relationships with Carillions suppliers and business partners are an effective Board providing strong and respected leadership.
based on the principle of fair and honest dealings at all times and in all ways.
Carillion expects its suppliers and business associates and joint The Non-Executive Directors bring their wide experience to the venture partners to extend the same high standards to all others with boardroom to both support and develop business strategy and whom they do business, including employees, subcontractors and operations and to constructively challenge the Executive Directors.
There is a Purchasing and Supply Chain Code of In addition, the Board evaluation process which we introduced in Ethics and a Sustainable Supplier Charter.
2002 supports the culture of constructive challenge and confirms that Non-Executive Directors are independent in their judgement.
Carillion plc, its subsidiaries and associated companies under Carillion control have a policy that all business activities are During the year to 31 December 2013 as detailed below and in the carried out in full compliance with competition laws the laws which Remuneration report on page 53, the Company complied fully with the prevent anti-competitive behaviour.
Competition law prevents requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 companies from carrying out any activities that restrict competition except as explained in the section entitled External Audit Tendering on and makes illegal activities such as price fixing, unfair pricing, market page 52 of the Report of the Audit Committee, where the requirements sharing and refusal to supply customers.
There is a Competition and associated transitional arrangements of various regulatory bodies Compliance Guide.
Carillion aims to maintain high standards of conduct Ethics and Business Integrity Policy by preventing criminal activity through money laundering.
There is a The Board remains committed to maintaining high standards of ethics Money Laundering Policy.
and business integrity throughout the organisation recognising this to be essential to both Group performance and reputation.
Carillion supports the belief that human rights are universal and adheres to the principles of human rights in Carillion is committed to the preservation of its reputation and integrity its operations.
Carillion supports the United Nations Declaration on through compliance with applicable laws, regulations and ethical Human Rights and works hard to ensure that in all areas of interaction standards across all territories in which it operates.
with its employees, clients, suppliers, third parties, interviewees and joint venture parties that everyone is protected and treated absolutely Carillions clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity and fairly.
Carillion has a Health & Safety Policy and an Equal Opportunities ethics underlies the Groups core values as detailed on page 17.
Ethics and Integrity Policy is designed to ensure that Carillion conducts its business to the highest ethical standards.
Carillion respects the rule of law in all our dealings and has minimum standard compliance with all law and regulation to The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy sets out the standards and which its businesses are subject.
Carillion has legal compliance behaviours that all Carillion employees are expected to meet wherever programmes for: in the world we operate.
The way Carillion delivers this policy is reflected in the way the Group competes for business and delivers European Union and United Kingdom Competition Laws its services, focused on quality, value for money and the reliability Bribery Act 2010 and reputation of its employees.
Canadian Criminal Code C46 Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act Canada.
The policy is: Ethics and Compliance Office.
As a response to the introduction of Prohibition of fraud, bribery and corruption.
Carillion takes extremely the Bribery Act 2010, the Ethics and Compliance Office was established seriously the prevention and detection of fraud, bribery and corruption in 2010.
This Office reviews and monitors compliance and ensures and any other fraudulent or corrupt activity.
It will not tolerate them that Carillion maintains high ethical standards.
It reports to the in any form.
The Board is fully committed to promoting a zero Business Integrity Committee on key global compliance risks tolerance approach across the Carillion Group.
There is a Fraud and functional activity.
All of Carillions employees Gifts and hospitality.
It is prohibited for a Carillion employee to offer have a responsibility to protect Carillions assets, including information or receive gifts or hospitality that could influence or be perceived to be and goodwill as well as property.
Carillion encourages its people to capable of influencing the outcome of transactions or decisions relating raise genuine concerns about malpractice at the earliest possible stage to Carillions business.
There is a Gifts and Hospitality Policy.
There is a Whistleblowing Policy and an Ethics and Business Integrity Incident Response Plan.
Those who have access to inside information are advised of their responsibilities under the insider dealing rules.
This Ethics and Business Integrity Policy is applied by all Carillions There is a Carillion Insider Dealing Code.
businesses through a series of detailed procedures.
They allow Carillion to carry into practice its reputation for conducting business Conflicts of interest.
All Carillion employees must disclose or seek to the highest ethical standards, which are essential to its relationships direction on any issues that could potentially conflict with their with customers, business partners, employees, shareholders and responsibilities to the Company.
There is a Conflicts of Interest Policy.
The detailed procedures reflect the way Carillion competes for business through the quality and value of its work and through the reliability and reputation of its people.
The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy is overseen by the Business Integrity Committee, and its implementation is reviewed annually by the Board.
46 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance report continued Directors Lintstock initially engaged with the Chairman and the Company The Board Secretary to set the context for the 2013 evaluation and subsequently reviewed and reported on the performance of the Carillion Board Main principle and Committees during 2013.
There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company between the running of the Board and the executive Directors completed online questionnaires addressing: responsibility for the running of the Companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
Board composition The role of Directors and the Board As part of their role as members of a unitary Board, Non-Executive Effectiveness of Board meetings Directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals The Committee structure and Committee performance on strategy.
Strategy Succession planning and human resource management The Company is led by a Board comprising two Executive and six Monitoring performance Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Leadership and culture Directors are considered to be independent of management.
They Directors remuneration each have substantial relevant experience and have no business Management of subsidiary companies or other relationship that could materially interfere with their Relations with shareholders independent judgement.
Philip Green is the Senior Independent Board accountability and audit Non-Executive Director.
Both our Chairman, Philip Rogerson and Vanda Murray will retire from Separate questionnaires covered the operation and effectiveness of the Board at the Companys AGM on 7 May 2014.
Philip Rogerson will the Boards Committees.
The performance of the Chairman and each be succeeded as Chairman by Philip Green.
Steve Mogford will succeed Director was reviewed as part of the Board evaluation process.
Philip Green as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The online process ensures the anonymity of respondents and thus In addition, Ceri Powell will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director openness and a frank exchange of views.
Ceri is Executive Vice President for Exploration of Royal Dutch Shell.
At the January 2014 Board meeting, the Directors reviewed the results of the evaluation.
The findings confirmed that, amongst a number Chief Executives Leadership Team of things: In discharging his responsibilities, Richard Howson, the Group Chief Executive, is assisted by the Chief Executives Leadership Team CELT the balance of skills and expertise amongst the Board members which meets every month.
The CELT is a management and strategy was highly rated forum which is chaired by Mr Howson.
Its primary responsibilities the effectiveness with which the skills and expertise amongst include strategy development, operational and financial management the Non-Executive Directors were drawn upon to support the and the executive management of the Groups businesses.
In addition strategic direction of the Company was positively rated to Mr Howson, the CELT comprises the Group Finance Director, the the Boards knowledge and understanding of the markets Managing Directors of the Business Units, the Group Development and in which the Group operates was highly rated Strategy Director, the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary the role of the Board in setting strategy was seen to be and Director of Legal Services.
clearly defined the key performance indicators provided to the Board to Main principle support the analysis of the performance of the business was All Directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, rated very highly subject to continued satisfactory performance.
the risk appetite of the Board was seen as appropriate and the Boards management of the main risks to the business was All Directors are subject to annual re-election.
rated positively the Boards succession planning for Directors was highly rated, Main principle as was the effectiveness with which the Board ensures that it The Board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of has visibility of potential successors for key positions within skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to the business.
enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The key priorities for the Board in 2014 were identified as i managing Chairman and Non-Executive Director rotation, ii supporting senior The Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation management and iii addressing specific business challenges.
of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The Board intends to continue to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code guidance that the evaluation should be externally Board and committee performance evaluation facilitated at least every three years.
In 2013, a detailed performance evaluation of the Board, the committees and each Director was conducted as it has been in each of the last 12 years.
The 2013 Board performance evaluation involved an external facilitator, Lintstock Limited Lintstock, a London-based corporate advisory firm.
Lintstock has, for a number of years, supplied software to the Company Secretariat for the provision of online questionnaires used for Board performance evaluation.
Other than this, Lintstock does not provide any services to Carillion and acted as an independent facilitator for the Board evaluation.
Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 47 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Main principle Acquisitions and disposals The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring Regulatory issues and briefings its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
Succession planning Directors share dealings The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Review of conflicts of interest Chief Executive are as follows: Site visits to operations Meeting local management and employees.
The role of the Chairman is to provide continuity, experience and governance while the Group Chief Executive is responsible for A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for consideration leading the Group and delivering its operational plans and strategy and decision is maintained.
These matters include: The Chairman is the ultimate steward of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
The Chairman Statutory issues such as the approval of final and interim and Group Chief Executive work together to provide effective and financial statements and the recommendation of dividends complementary stewardship.
Appointments to, and removals from, the Board The Chairman: The terms of reference and membership of Board committees takes overall responsibility for the composition and capability Approval of Group strategy and annual budgets of the Board Approval of authority levels, financial and treasury policies consults regularly with the Group Chief Executive and is Authorisation for any acquisition or disposal available for providing advice, counsel and support to the Review of the internal control arrangements and risk Group Chief Executive.
management strategies The Group Chief Executive: Review of corporate governance arrangements.
manages the Groups day-to-day activities prepares and presents to the Board strategic options for growth The Executive Directors and the Carillion subsidiary companies in shareholder value operate within clearly defined limits of authority delegated by the Board sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the and any matters outside of these limits must be referred to the Board agreed strategy for consideration.
ensures that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and applicable rules Main principle and regulations are observed.
The Board approves the appointment All Directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company and removal of the Company Secretary.
to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent The Board had a programme of 10 meetings in 2013.
In addition, the professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present and, at least once a year, the Non-Executive The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the Directors meet without the Chairman present.
financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the Group as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, markets, Health & The Board generally meets in Central London, but at least one Board Safety, sustainability and other relevant issues.
meeting each year is held at one of the Groups overseas locations either in the Middle East or Canada, which gives the Directors the Documents are made available to all Directors five working days in opportunity to review the operations and to meet local management.
advance of the Board meeting.
Since late 2010, the Board has used a secure electronic portal to receive Board papers.
The portal provides Main activities of the Board in the year to 31 December 2013 information in a timely and secure manner, enabling the Directors to In 2013, the Board dealt with the following matters: receive Board papers quickly and to access them via tablet computers wherever they may be.
Health & Safety Sustainability policy and practice In pursuit of best practice, the Carillion plc Board receives presentations Presentations on the business units performance and strategy on governance and regulatory matters.
Group strategy Risk management Attendance at meetings in 2013 Full and half-year financial statements The number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings attended Forecasts and budgets by each Director during 2013 was as follows: Regulatory announcements Business Dividends Audit Remuneration Nominations Integrity Monthly management results Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Work winning Number of Three year business plan meetings held 10 4 3 3 3 Board committee reports Richard Adam 10 Review of policies such as ethics and business integrity Andrew Dougal 10 4 3 3 3 Delegation of authorities Philip Green 10 4 3 2 3 AGM business Alison Horner 1 1 1 1 1 Major projects Richard Howson 10 3 Steve Mogford 10 3 3 3 3 Vanda Murray 10 4 3 3 3 Philip Rogerson 10 2 3 Alison Horner was appointed to the Board in December 2013.
Mr Mogford was unable to attend the December meeting of the Audit Committee due to regulatory commitments.
M r Rogerson was unable to attend the December Nominations Committee meeting as he was hosting a Royal visit to another company of which he is chairman.
M r Green took no part in the December Nominations Committee meeting which considered the appointment of a chairman designate.
48 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance report continued Board Committees Remuneration Committee The principal Board Committees are the Audit Committee, the Vanda Murray, Chairman Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Business Andrew Dougal Integrity Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of Philip Green these committees.
Alison Horner Steve Mogford The terms of reference of each of the Board Committees are available on the Carillion website at www.
com or on request from The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive the Company Secretary.
Directors and determines and makes recommendations on the Groups remuneration policy and framework to recruit, retain and reward Audit Committee Executive Directors and senior executives.
Andrew Dougal, Chairman Philip Green The Remuneration Committee is assisted in its work by Janet Dawson, Alison Horner Group HR Director, by Philip Rogerson, the Chairman and by Richard Steve Mogford Howson, the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief Executive is Vanda Murray consulted on the remuneration of those who report directly to him and also of other senior executives.
No Executive Director or employee is The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive present or takes part in discussions in respect of matters relating Directors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee has recent and directly to their own remuneration.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 53 to 68.
Andrew Dougal is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Nominations Committee of Scotland and is a member of its Council and Oversight Board.
He was Philip Rogerson, Chairman appointed to the Audit Committee in October 2011.
Andrew was Chief Andrew Dougal Executive of Hanson plc, the international building materials company, Philip Green after its demerger from Hanson, the Anglo-American diversified Alison Horner industrial group, where he was Group Finance Director.
Andrew is Richard Howson Chairman of the Audit Committee of Creston plc and a member of the Steve Mogford Premier Farnell plc Audit Committee.
He has previously been Audit Vanda Murray Committee Chairman at Taylor Wimpey plc and Taylor Woodrow plc.
The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, Philip Green was appointed to the Audit Committee in June 2011.
Philip knowledge and experience of the Board and makes recommendations to was Chief Executive of United Utilities Group PLC from 2006 to 2011. the Board with regard to any changes that are deemed desirable.
The His earlier business experience includes serving as Chief Executive of Committee also reviews succession planning to ensure that processes and Royal P&O Nedlloyd and Chief Operating Officer at Reuters Group PLC.
plans are in place with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
Philip is Non-Executive Chairman of BakerCorp and Chairman Designate of Williams & Glyn Bank Limited.
The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
Alison Horner was appointed to the Audit Committee in December 2013.
Alison is Group Personnel Director of Tesco.
For the Board appointment of Alison Horner, the Nominations Committee has used the services of the executive recruitment consultants The Lygon Steve Mogford was appointed to the Audit Committee in September Group.
Details of potential candidates are provided by the consultants 2006.
Steve is Chief Executive of United Utilities Group PLC.
Prior to and initially reviewed by a sub-committee of the Nominations Committee.
this appointment, Steve was Chief Executive of Selex Galileo.
Meetings with selected candidates are then held with the Directors.
Subsequently, the Nominations Committee meets to recommend Vanda Murray was appointed to the Audit Committee in July 2005. an appointment, which is then proposed to the Board for approval.
Vanda is the Senior Non-Executive Director of Fenner plc and a Non-Executive Director of Chemring Group PLC, Microgen plc and The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a Manchester Airports Holdings Limited.
whole, taking into account the commitment required and participation in the work of committees and other advisory services in relation to The Report of the Audit Committee can be found on pages 50 to 52. the business of the Group.
In advising the Board on such fees, it is the policy of the Executive Directors to seek independent external advice concerning the appropriateness of the amounts by comparison with general practice.
The level of fees currently payable to the NonExecutive Directors is based on independent external advice.
The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the Remuneration report on pages 53 to 68.
Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 49 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business Integrity Committee Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on Philip Rogerson, Chairman joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other duties and Andrew Dougal obligations as a director of a listed company.
In addition, all new Philip Green Directors receive induction on their appointment covering such matters Alison Horner as the operation and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and Steve Mogford the Companys corporate governance procedures.
Directors are also Vanda Murray briefed by the Companys external advisers, where appropriate, on changes to legislation or regulation or market practice as well as The Committee reviews and oversees the implementation of the receiving briefings from business units throughout the year.
Groups Ethics and Business Integrity Policy, monitors the Groups compliance with relevant legislation such as the Bribery Act 2010 and The regular updating of Directors skills and knowledge is encouraged, the Competition Act, ensures that the Groups communication and including in relation to environmental, sustainability and governance training programmes on ethics and business integrity are effective in matters, and a procedure has been established whereby the Company reinforcing ethical values and good practice, and reviews the policies Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements in this respect.
and practice in respect of business ethics and integrity in relation to the Training for Directors is kept under review during the year.
commencement of operations in any new country or territory in which the Company has not previously operated.
Relations with shareholders Other Board matters Main principle Board diversity There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual Carillion recognises the importance of gender diversity throughout the understanding of objectives.
The Board as a whole has responsibility Group.
Currently, two of Carillions eight Board members are female.
for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The Board aims to have a broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience.
While Carillion will continue to follow a policy of ensuring The Board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to that the best people are appointed for the relevant roles, the benefits encourage their participation.
of greater diversity are recognised and will continue to be taken account of when considering any particular appointment.
The Executive Directors and the Director of Group Corporate Affairs meet regularly with representatives of major shareholders in order to Ceri Powell will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 2 April foster the mutual understanding of objectives.
Ceri is Executive Vice President for Exploration of Royal Dutch with other shareholders and prospective shareholders.
Following Ceris appointment, and the retirement from the Board these meetings are reported to the Board.
The Chairman and Senior of Philip Rogerson and Vanda Murray on 7 May 2014, the Board will Independent Non-Executive Director are available for meetings with comprise seven directors of whom two are women.
representatives of major shareholders as required.
Policy on external appointments The Chairman and Company Secretary have also met with major Recognising that external appointments can broaden experience and shareholders and fund managers to discuss governance matters.
knowledge and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a limited number of Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend the such appointments and retain the fees received for such appointments.
Neither of the Executive Directors currently holds an external The Company complies fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate appointment.
Governance Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen of all the Board Re-election of Directors Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors 2014 to respond to shareholders questions.
will submit themselves for either election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2014.
All have been subject to Health & safety and sustainability formal performance evaluation and are effective members of the Board A review of the Groups progress on Health & Safety is provided in the who are committed to the role and to the time required for Board and, Strategic review on page 21 and the Groups Sustainability performance where applicable, Committee meetings and any other duties required is contained in the Sustainability review on pages 34 to 37. of them.
The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal Richard Tapp business hours on any weekday bank holidays excepted and at the Secretary Annual General Meeting.
5 March 2014 Induction and development of Directors Main principle All Directors should receive induction on joining the Board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
The Board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
