Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9 Long-Term Client Relationships Putting the client at the centre of everything we do is core to our Given the importance of the Partner-client relationship, we are culture and means we seek to run a genuinely client-focused quite proud of the positive results we receive in our annual client business.
Through our relationship-based advice service, we aim survey, conducted by Ledbury Research, where we consistently to help clients manage their wealth in a way which reflects their outperform the marketplace on all core satisfaction metrics.
This approach has allowed us to develop our 2013 client survey, 32% of clients rated their satisfaction level long-term relationships, founded on trust, with many of at ten out of ten and 86% of clients agreed that we provided our clients.
81% of clients were likely to recommend St. Jamess Place to others.
We achieve this primarily through the activity of the St. Jamess Place Partnership see page 7 and their ability to provide an The following comments come from some recent client research individualised service to each of our clients.
Our Partners in response to the question is there anything you would like to recognise that no one clients objectives or circumstances are add with regard to feedback on St. Jamess Place: the same as another and so the advice must be tailored.
The relationship between Partner and client is founded on mutual Im just totally happy.
I wouldnt recommend them to other respect and trust, and the emphasis is on building and maintaining people if I werent.
Recommendations can backfire, so you have a long-term relationship.
Our high standards are maintained to know its good.
and reinforced by the high expectations that members of the Partnership have of each other.
As a result, clients often continue What theyve got right is their rapport with their clients, its the working relationship with their Partner over many years, on the right level.
I work with another financial company and appreciating a source of trusted advice as their financial needs they seem a bit condescending, whereas St. Jamess Place has evolve over the years.
My St. Jamess Place Partner is a gentleman, whom I cant recommend highly enough.
He is someone I go to before I make any form of decision, in my personal affairs not just my geographic distribution of Clients financial affairs.
He is always attentive to my needs even when Im not investing with St. Jamess Place, he is always concerned, the net effect of that is that when I do invest then St. Jamess Place gets a big chunk of it.
I find it an excellent company and the Partner is first class.
Ive got no problem with them.
Hes got a very good attitude, 6% hes friendly, he comes round and visits us when we ask.
I honestly couldnt ask for anybody better.
The success of our approach is also evident from the fact that over 90% of new investment is estimated to come from existing clients or from referrals and introductions from them.
Further, 1% once clients have invested, they tend to stay invested and we are 24% particularly pleased with the consistent, year on year, low rate of surrender of funds typically less than 5%.
Despite receiving much positive feedback from clients, we never 14% become complacent and in 2014 we will continue our constant 4% 3% 4% striving to improve our standards.
