62 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Risk Committee Fostering a culture of effective risk management is of the utmost importance to the Directors.
The Risk Committee assists the Board in developing this culture, by providing leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups management of risk.
In pursuing these objectives, the Committees key activities in 2013 included: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of risk management in the Group and the risk management functions: Reviewing the risk appetite as well as the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group: Considering reports produced by the Groups Risk and Compliance functions, to monitor the ongoing compliance interaction with the Groups regulators: and Receiving presentations from members of senior management about their business areas and reviewing the management of the associated risks.
The following report sets out in more detail the Committees key activities in 2013.
Iain Cornish Membership and Attendance in 2013 Iain Cornish Committee Members Attendance On behalf of the Risk Committee 1 Mike Power 5 5 24 February 2014 2 Iain Cornish 5 5 Baroness Wheatcroft 5 5 1 Mike Power ceased being a member of the Committee on 31 December 2013 andRoger Yates joined the Committee on 1 January 2014, when Iain Cornish became Chair.
2 Attended one meeting by telephone.
Role of the Committee in Summary To foster a culture of effective risk identification and management throughout the Group: To provide leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups management of risk: To review the principal risks affecting the Group and the ways in which the risks are controlled and mitigated: and To report any material areas of concern to the full Board.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Committee Membership during 2013 As part of their oversight of risk management in the business, the The membership of the Risk Committee changed with effect Committee continued to receive and review reports from a number from 1 January 2014, with Mike Power stepping down on of Executive Committees and other functions in the Group including: 31December 2013 and being replaced by Roger Yates.
Iain minutes of the Risk and Finance Executive Committee Cornish was appointed Chair of the Committee.
All members of meetings, where executive oversight is given to the the Risk Committee have considerable financial, risk and or other appropriateness and observance of the Groups Risk Appetite: experience and are independent Nonexecutive Directors.
reports from the Risk Committee of St. Jamess Place International the Groups Irish registered insurance company : Regular attendees at Committee meetings during the year reports produced by the Compliance and Actuarial functions included the Chief Executive, Managing Director, relating to the management of the risks faced by the regulated Group Risk Director, the Compliance Officer, Head of Risk subsidiary entities within the Group: Management, the Corporate Actuary and a representative from an annual report from the Head of Risk Management on the Lloyds Banking Group, the Companys major shareholder during effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems: and 2013.
Also, as part of the annual development programme, an annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Charles Gregson and Sarah Bates attended a number of Risk Officer on the antimoney laundering, bribery and fraud Committee meetings.
activities taking place within the Group.
Committee Activities during 2013 Since most of the activity within the Group is regulated, the Oversight of the Risk Management Framework is key to delivery Committee also considered regular updates on the Groups ongoing of the responsibilities of the Committee.
The framework and interactions with the PRA and FCA, and the wider regulatory associated documents are subject to annual review, and in 2013, interactions with firms in the financial services marketplace.
This particular focus was given to the articulation of the Groups Risk allowed them to monitor ongoing compliance with regulation.
Appetite Statement and the breadth of the associated Key Risk Indicator Suite.
The risk policies were also considered at the same Finally, the Committee continued to receive regular updates from time in a dedicated meeting.
senior executives on key corporate initiatives and spent time discussing management of the associated risks.
The Committee The Committee is supported in its oversight of the Risk finds these presentations particularly useful in giving an Management Framework by the Risk Management team and the opportunity for more detailed discussion and challenge of Committee spends a significant proportion of its time receiving particular areas of risk in the business.
Most of the topics were updates from the Group Risk Director and the Head of Risk presented as joint sessions with the Audit Committee and allowed Management, who both have direct access to the Chairman of the members of both Committees wider experience of the Risk Committee should the need arise.
The Committee is also management of the Group and an opportunity to challenge senior able to review and provide challenge on the implementation of management.
Presentations in 2013 included: risk mitigation in the business, and can test how effectively the the Compliance Officer explaining the processes in place to culture is embedded.
monitor the quality of advice provided by the St. Jamess Place Partnership, including the ongoing supervision arrangements As in previous years, the Committee regularly received and and business checking procedures: discussed a suite of management information to aid their the Commercial Director outlining the strategy of the Group monitoring of risks and risk exposure in the business.
The to attract larger Independent Financial Advisers to join the information included: Partnership, often through the acquisition of larger established Risk Schedules, setting out the principal risks and uncertainties businesses.
The Committee also reviewed the due diligence carried facing the Group, as well as how they are mitigated: and out prior to any acquisition taking place and the procedures used Key Risk Indicators KRIs, assessing the current exposure to to monitor the integration of the businesses into the SJP Group: key risks.
the Corporate Actuary reporting on recent ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process work and discussing the During the year, and with the encouragement of the Committee, key risks affecting the financial position of the regulated the KRI suite was reviewed.
The Committee, working actively subsidiary entities within the Group, the management of these with Risk Management and the Executive Board, contributed and the implied capital requirement: and extensively to the redesign and refinement of the new suite the Business Development Director updating the Committee ofinformation.
on the programme to upgrade the Groups third party administration arrangements in the UK, including the development of a new administration platform.
The terms of reference setting out the Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate website at www.
