64 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Nomination Committee Having the appropriate range of high calibre Directors on our Board is key to achieving success in the Groups strategic objectives, whilst helping to mitigate the regulatory and other risks faced by the Group.
The Committee spent a considerable amount of time over the past year looking for new Nonexecutive Directors as part of the Companys policy of continually refreshing its Board.
This process resulted in the appointment on 1 January 2014 of twonew independent Nonexecutive Directors, Simon Jeffreys and Roger Yates.
The Committee also considered who should succeed Charles Gregson as Chair of the Board, following his retirement at the end of 2013.
The Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Sarah Bates with Charles Gregson taking no part in this process in accordance with the Code.
Succession planning is also a core remit of the Committee.
In order to identify appropriate successors for each senior Iain Cornish management role, the Committee regularly reviews the Companys succession plans.
Assessing and developing the talent that lies below the Board is key to maintaining healthy Membership and Attendance in 2013 motivational and retention levels amongst senior management, Committee members Attendance aswell as ensuring smooth transition when senior staff move in Iain Cornish 3 3 the Company.
1 Charles Gregson 3 3 1 Mike Power 3 3 This report provides further details of the role of the Nomination Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
1 Charles Gregson and Mike Power ceased being members of the Committee on 31 December 2013 and Sarah Bates and Baroness Wheatcroft joined the Committee on 1 January 2014, when Sarah Bates became Chair.
Iain Cornish Role of the Committee in Summary On behalf of the Nomination Committee To regularly review Board and committee composition 24 February 2014 andstructure: To identify, report on and recommend for Board approval suitable candidates for appointment to the Board: and To appropriately consider succession planning for Directors and senior management, taking into account diversity, experience, knowledge and skills.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Committee Membership during 2013 The Committee continued to monitor and review succession The membership of the Committee changed at the end of 2013 planning in relation to the Companys senior management in following the resignation of Charles Gregson and Mike Power order to encourage and develop a strong pipeline of talent.
Sarah Bates joined the Committee and became believes that diversity extends beyond the Boardroom and that Chair of the Committee with effect from 1 January 2014. developing all members of the senior management team below Baroness Wheatcroft also joined the Committee at the same date.
Board level is vital in order to develop and maintain an effective succession programme.
During the year, the Committee Committee Activities during 2013 reviewed the Groups succession plans with the Chief Executive During 2013, the Nomination Committee spent a considerable and made suggestions as to how the plans could be further amount of time identifying two independent Nonexecutive strengthened.
It was noted that the Group had introduced a Directors to join the Board.
It carefully considered the calibre, number of new initiatives to develop senior talent below the skills, knowledge and experience required to fill the roles and Board, including bespoke training programmes with development complete the most appropriate balance in Board composition.
consultants, mentoring opportunities and a pilot programme Given the planned retirement of Mike Power from the Board, centred on healthy living and wellbeing.
The Committee also it was decided to seek a candidate with considerable accounting reviewed the succession plans for each of the Executive Directors experience.
The Committee also identified the need for a and members of the senior management team.
candidate with investment management experience, given the importance of this area to the success of the Group.
The terms of reference setting out the Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate website at www.
co. uk The Committee believed it inappropriate to narrow the search towards a particular gender since it considered it was in the best interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole to access the widest pool of nonexecutive talent.
This is not to say, however, that the Board does not appreciate the importance of diversity.
The Committee believes that, in order for a Board to be fully effective, it should consist of people from different backgrounds and skill sets so that group thinking is avoided and constructive discussion enhanced.
It will therefore continue to focus on all these aspects when considering candidates.
Once suitable candidate profiles had been agreed upon and drafted, an external recruitment consultant, Korn Ferry, with no connection to the Company, was engaged to identify the most appropriate candidates.
These candidates met with senior management and the members of the Nomination Committee and were rigorously interviewed prior to being recommended to the Board.
The Board in turn carefully examined each candidate before approving their appointments.
The Committee also considered who would be the most appropriate person to succeed Charles Gregson as Chair of the Board on his retirement at the end of the year.
After careful review, it was considered that Sarah Bates had the requisite experience and skills to become Chairman with effect from 1January 2014.
The Committee also confirmed that Sarah remained independent and recommended her appointment to the Board.
In accordance with the Code, neither Charles Gregson nor Sarah Bates were involved in the discussions relating to the Chair of the Board.
