Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Report of the Audit Committee The integrity of the Companys financial results and the effectiveness of its internal control systems are of utmost importance to the Directors.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring of financial reporting and internal controls, by testing and challenging these areas and working in conjunction with management and the external and internal auditors as appropriate.
The key activities of the Committee during 2013 included: reviewing the annual and half yearly Report and Accounts, andassociated announcements, including the external auditorsreports: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, including progress against the Internal Audit plan: engaging with development of the Internal Audit plan for the year and subsequently considering the results of the Internal Audit activity, particularly the major areas of internal audit focus during the year: and considering the results of the Internal Control Iain Cornish Evaluation process.
The Committee also maintained an appropriate relationship with Membership and Attendance in 2013 the Companys external auditors.
Committee members Attendance Iain Cornish 6 6 This report aims to provide more indepth details of the role of Vivian Bazalgette 6 6 the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken during 1 Mike Power 6 6 theyear.
1 Mike Power ceased being a member of the Committee on 31 December 2013 and Simon Jeffreys joined the Committee on 1 January 2014.
Iain Cornish Role of the Committee in Summary On behalf of the Audit Committee To be responsible for the accuracy and integrity of the Groups 24 February 2014 financial statements: To review the external auditors reports thereon: To monitor the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: To ensure the effectiveness of the systems of internal control: To review, and where appropriate refer on to the Board, any significant control failures: and To report to the Board on how it has discharged itsresponsibilities.
60 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Audit Committee continued Committee Membership during 2013 Early in the year, as part of a series of presentations by senior The membership of the Committee changed at the end of 2013 managers from the business and following the announcement by following the resignation of Mike Power from the Board.
Simon the FCA of an industry review, the Committee received a Jeffreys joined the Committee on 1 January 2014 and it is presentation on unit pricing.
This provided the Committee with intended that he will become Chair of the Committee from an opportunity to challenge the management and controls in this 1March 2014, following the process to finalise the 2013 Financial important area.
The presentation also included consideration of Statements.
All members of the Audit Committee at the end of the relationship with State Street and the control environment the year were independent Nonexecutive Directors and this around regular valuation of assets and funds, which is also a key remains the case at the date of this report.
The Board remains part of the accounts.
satisfied that all members of the Audit Committee have the experience and qualifications to perform their roles, noting in Finally in relation to the review of the Report and Accounts, as part particular that a majority of members have recent and relevant of the regular Internal Audit plan, the Companys reporting financial experience and expertise.
processes were, as usual, the subject of a number of internal audits.
These audits complemented the external audit and were taken into Attendees at meetings during the year included the Chief account in the Committees review of the Report and Accounts.
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Risk Director, the Head of Internal Audit and members of the Finance team, as well as Internal Audit Function Effectiveness representatives from the external auditors, .
In relation to the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, the Steve Colsell also attended meetings as the representative of Lloyds Committee spent a considerable period of time in early 2013 Banking Group until his resignation in June 2013: thereafter Sue discussing the scope and objectives of the Internal Audit Plan and Harris attended a further meeting as LBGs replacement testing to ensure that the internal audit department had the representative.
In addition, as part of the annual development necessary resources, both internal and external, to implement the programme, Charles Gregson was invited to attend as an observer plan in a timely manner.
at three of the Audit Committee meetings, and Sarah Bates was invited to attend one of the Audit Committeemeetings.
As part of that review, the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP Deloitte to conduct an independent review of the internal Committee Activities during 2013 audit function.
This review assessed the function in light of the Report and Accounts growth of the Group, relevant industry standards, good practice As in previous years, the Committee spent a significant amount of and the expectations of the Board, regulators and other time reviewing the annual and half yearly Report and Accounts.
Deloitte presented their findings to the Committee The focus was particularly on process and control issues, for in July 2013.
The review confirmed that the Internal Audit example, confirming the process of how judgements were made, function was operating with the necessary independence and who was involved and how decisions were implemented.
The objectivity when carrying out its work.
However, Deloitte topics discussed were driven both by consideration of risk of recommended a number of changes intended to strengthen the misstatement of accounts, but also by consideration of risks in the profile and resources of the internal audit team and improve its business.
Topics that received dedicated time in the year, bothin alignment with the risk functions operating within the Group.
Committee meetings and in separate less formal sessions, included: The Committee accepted the recommendations in full and has actuarial assumptions, with a particular focus on persistency monitored the progress of the actions to be implemented.
The used in the assessment of the embedded value: remaining actions are expected to be completed in early 2014. review of principal areas where the Group applies accounting estimates, including valuation of deferred tax assets and Internal Audit Activity liabilities and impairment testing of other intangible assets: As in previous years, the Committee was actively engaged in impact on the business of regulatory and legal risks, including approving the Internal Audit Plan which was risk based.
The plan disclosure and accounting: covered a wide range of areas across the business but some of the process for extending loans or advances to Partners and key topics addressed included antifraud controls and the assessing the risk of them being unable to repay: supervision of Partners.
The antifraud controls work was in future financial implications of the new outsourced support of the External Auditors.
Internal audit activity in administration contract with IFDS: and relation to Partner activity is carried out annually given the reporting and disclosure of the fees paid by the Company in importance of managing the advice risk in the business.
connection with the placing by Lloyds Banking Group plc of shares in the Company in March 2013.
Reflecting the importance of the current project working with IFDS to upgrade some of the Groups policy administration Having reviewed how all of these points were represented in the systems, the Audit Committee also requested that the Internal Report and Accounts, the Committee concluded that their Audit team undertook work to review and advise on controls for treatment was appropriate.
The project is expected to run for a number of years Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 and Internal Audit will continue to monitor progress to help Fair, Balanced and Understandable Opinion ensure a successful outcome.
The UK Corporate Governance Code now requires the Board to give their opinion as to whether they consider the Companys Throughout the year, the Committee received regular updates from Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
To the Head of Internal Audit in relation to the results from completed aid the Board, the Audit Committee formally reviewed the audits.
The Committee paid careful attention to any areas where Report and Accounts in relation to this requirement and were the audit led to remedial action being recommended.
The actions able to confirm the opinion of the Committee, based on the arising were monitored to ensure completion.
In practice 93% of activities and information described above, being that the Report actions were completed in line with the original agreed deadline, and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 for with the rest being completed by appropriately revised deadlines.
St. Jamess Place plc are indeed fair, balanced and understandable.
External Auditor Internal Control Evaluation The Committee has responsibility for the work of the external The Board, through the Audit Committee, conducts an annual auditors of the Company and during the year senior management review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal carried out its annual review of the effectiveness, independence control, in line with the requirements of the UK Corporate and objectivity of the Companys external auditor.
As a result of Governance Code.
The Group adopts the three lines of defence this review, the Committee concluded that the audit service of model as the design basis for its internal control framework and  LLP was fit for purpose and provided a the process for reviewing the effectiveness of the framework is robust evaluation of the risks underlying the Companys aligned to the same model.
In summary, the Chief Executive has ultimate responsibility for In relation to the review of the independence of the auditors, the the first two lines of defence and uses his knowledge of the Committee noted the existence of a formal policy for the provision business, and that of his senior management team, to provide his of nonaudit services by the External Auditor.
The aim of the opinion on the control systems.
Internal Audit then provides an policy is to ensure that external auditor objectivity and independent second opinion, from a third line perspective, based independence is safeguarded by setting out the categories of on Internal Audit activity conducted throughout the year and nonaudit services which the external auditor is allowed to provide Internal Audits appraisal and triangulation on the output from a to the Group and limiting the amount of activity.
The financial wide range of other sources.
limit for nonaudit related advice and consultancy work by the external audit firm is 100,000 per year.
Nonaudit assignments In 2013, the Chief Executive was also able to take into account the exceeding 25% of the audit fee, either individually or cumulatively, output of the new controls selfassessment CSA processes for a must have the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The amounts number of departments within the Group.
This work had been paid to the External Auditors during the year for audit and encouraged by the Audit Committee and was facilitated by the nonaudit related services are set out in the Notes to the Accounts Internal Audit function.
The processes are now being embedded on page 120, but the amount for nonaudit related services in the and will be extended to the rest of the Group functions year was nil 2012: nil.
The Committee remains satisfied that during2014.
 LLP remains independent and objective in relation to its audit activities carried out for the Group.
Jointly, the two opinions assist the Audit Committee in completing its annual review and enable the Audit Committee to attest on  LLP was appointed as the Companys behalf of the Board that it has been able to properly review the external auditor in 2009.
In 2014 the Lead Partner will rotate, effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control in and since the audit service provided in recent years has been accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on Internal deemed fit for purpose, the Company considers that putting the Control.
Where any matters have arisen from the review, the Audit audit engagement out to tender is not necessary at the current Committee has ensured that corrective action has been taken.
Having assessed the performance and independence of the auditors as outlined above, the Committee recommends that Other Activity  LLP be reappointed as external auditor Finally, a variety of joint presentations about the business were and a resolution to effect this will be put to shareholders at the received from senior management.
The Committee also carried Annual General Meeting.
out a formal review of the risk schedules, and received updates from the Chair of the Risk Committee and reports from the The terms of reference setting out the Committees role and Audit Committee of St. Jamess Place International plc the authority can be found on the corporate website at Groups Irishregistered life company.
co. uk carefully considered the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year and it is satisfied that they remain appropriate and conform to best practice.
