40 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued CsR governance Responsible management is central to our culture, and the task of maintaining this culture including our CSR ambitions is a key focus of the Executive Committee of the Board, comprising the four Executive Directors.
Oversight of this key aspect of our business is provided by the full Board.
The Executive Committee of the Board is supported in this objective as in all of their work by a number of sub-committees, which are chaired by the Directors and which involve other members of senior management.
Responsibility for specific areas has been further delegated to a number of specialist sub-committees.
Managing Committee Remit Our Culture and People Executive Committee of the To ensure the strength and maintenance of the unique culture Board throughout the SJP community.
Our Clients Client Steering Group To monitor the client care experience and promote high standards in all our interactions with clients.
Our Investments Investment Committee To ensure the Investment Management Approach and our fund managers deliver in line with mandates and client expectations.
CSR overview, Local CSR Group To co-ordinate SJPs approach to CSR, with particular focus on Community, Suppliers and promoting local community engagement and environmental the Environment matters.
The St. Jamess Place Foundation Trustees To manage the SJP Foundation, including overseeing grant-making Foundation and compliance with the charitys objectives.
Our Culture Our culture is central to the success of our organisation and we are pro-active in building and reinforcing it.
We recognise that as our business grows we will have to take care to ensure that the culture we have nurtured is able to retain its key elements whilst evolving to continue to deliver business success.
Our employee numbers have grown beyond 1,000 in 2013 and the number of Partners has increased to 1,958.
Both are expected to continue to grow in future years.
To ensure continuity of our culture, we ensure that all employees and Partners joining the business are selected for their fit with our corporate values, as well as their competency, and that they are given a full induction as the first step in their career with our business.
At induction, all employees and Partners receive a booklet entitled Our Approach, which gives guidance on the culture and values of St. Jamess Place.
We believe it is important for all areas of our community to know and understand our objectives, including the ethos behind the St. Jamess Place brand and how its integrity and values should be maintained.
We are keen to promote our corporate culture and management style, to provide information about how we deal with internal and external communications, and to encourage a shared commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Members of the Partnership are also provided with a document entitled What it means to be a member, which sets out a philosophy and some principles.
We believe the shared commitment to living up to these principles is what gives the Partnership its competitive edge and makes it a group of professionals that other advisers aspire to join.
The document emphasises integrity, trust, openness, partnership and teamwork and is designed to guide individual and corporate actions, decisions and standards across our community.
Maintaining the freshness of the commitment to its culture is a key challenge for all businesses, and it is particularly relevant for SJP given the growth which has been achieved in recent years.
We recognise this challenge and are pro-active in reinforcing our culture, with key activities including an Annual Company Meeting, employee and Partner Surveys, regular Partner meetings, feedback opportunities for employees with Directors and a Leadership Conference for senior management.
These activities all provide opportunities to renew our joint understanding and encourage commitment to our shared culture.
The same activities also provide opportunities for all of our community to develop a common awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance.
