56 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance Report Board Leadership For each Board meeting, all members of the Board are supplied with Your Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership an agenda and pack containing reports and management information and direction to the Company, as well as setting out its strategic on current trading, operational issues, compliance, risk, accounting aims, vision and values.
It is also responsible for ensuring that and financial matters.
The Chairs of the various committees of the adequate controls exist in order to deliver value to shareholders Board also report to the Board at each Board meeting and copies of and other stakeholders who derive benefit from our activities.
committee meeting minutes are included in Board packs.
How have we complied with the UK Corporate While the Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically Governance Code?
reserved for it, it acknowledges that it is responsible for focusing Under the UK Listing Rules, UK listed companies are required on growing the business successfully by developing and promoting tostate whether they have complied with the provisions of the appropriate policies and procedures and encouraging a culture of UKCorporate Governance Code the Code during the year, innovation and continual improvement.
Matters specifically and where they have not complied, they are required to explain reserved to your Board are set out below: such noncompliance.
Details of how the Company has applied determining the overall strategy of the Company: the principles of the Code are set out in this report, other than ensuring that the Companys operations are well managed and the principles of the Code relating to remuneration, which are set proper succession plans are in place: out in the Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 92.
Your Board reviewing major transactions or initiatives proposed by the considers that the Company has fully complied with all of the Executive Directors: Codes provisions during 2013.
The provisions of the Code can be implementing appropriate corporate governance procedures: found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, at www.
periodically reviewing the results and operations of org.
uk theCompany: ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained and How did your Board carry out its work during 2013?
adequate controls are in place to safeguard the assets of the During the year, six formal Board meetings were held, including Company from fraud and other significant risks: a full day Board Strategy meeting, and two ad hoc Board meetings identifying and managing risk: and were held by telephone conference call.
Directors attendance at deciding the Companys policy on charitable and Board meetings can be found on page 58. politicaldonations.
Board Committee St. Jamess Place plc structure Shareholders Matters reserved to AGM St. Jamess Place plc Board Chair Sarah Bates Matters reserved to Board Investment Remuneration Executive Board Nomination Audit Committee Risk Committee Committee Committee Execs Committee TOR NEDs TOR NEDs TOR IMA TOR NEDs Chair David TOR NEDs Chair Iain Cornish Chair Iain Cornish Chair Vivian Chair Sarah Bates Bellamy Chair Sarah Bates Bazalgette SJPI Board BCM Operations & Finance ExCo Risk ExCo Distribution ExCo Investment ExCo & Matters Res Infrastructure ExCo Chair A Croft Chair B Tonks Chair I Gascoigne Chair D Lamb Chair A Croft Chair S Gravestock Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 How are other matters delegated to your Ensuring Independence BoardsCommittees?
When determining whether a Nonexecutive Director is Operational matters are delegated to management via the Boards independent, your Board considers each individual against the Executive Committee, comprising the Executive Directors of the criteria set out in the Code and also considers how they conduct Board the Executive Board.
The Executive Board is themselves in Board meetings, including how they exercise responsible for communicating and implementing the Groups judgement and independent thinking.
Taking these factors into business plan objectives, ensuring that the necessary resources are account, the Board believes that all Nonexecutive Directors put in place to achieve those objectives and managing the continue to demonstrate their independence.
daytoday operational activities of the Group.
The level of committees below those of the main Board committees assist the Procedures to Deal with Conflicts of Interest Executive Board in executing these responsibilities.
Rigorous procedures are in place to deal with potential or actual conflicts of interest.
Under this procedure, the relevant Director The Company maintains a Board Control Manual which sets out must disclose to the Board the actual or potential conflict of the primary policy and decisionmaking mechanisms within the interest for discussion by the other members of the Board.
It includes the terms of reference for the various Board will consider the potential conflict on its particular facts committees of the Board, the Companys risk policies and risk and decide whether to waive the potential conflict and or impose appetite statement.
In addition, detailed job descriptions for each conditions on such waiver, if it believes this to be in the best Executive Director are included, as well as a general job interests of the Company.
Conflict authorisations are reviewed description outlining the responsibilities of the Nonexecutive annually by the Board.
The Board Control Manual is updated by the Company Secretary and approved by the Audit Committee on an annual Directors and Officers Indemnity and Insurance basis.
The Company has taken out insurance covering Directors and officers against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as How is your Board Organised?
Directors or officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Sarah Bates was appointed as Chairman on 1January2014, The Company has granted indemnities to all of its Directors and following the resignation of Charles Gregson from the Board on Directors of subsidiary companies on terms consistent with the 31December2013.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the 2006 were accordingly in force during the course of the financial Board, Sarah Bates, and the Chief Executive, David Bellamy, are year ended 31December 2013, and remain in force at the date of clearly defined and documented.
As Chairman, Sarah is this report.
responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its continued effectiveness, and also promoting effective communication How are your Board Committees Structured?
between the Executive and Nonexecutive Directors, and with There are five committees of the Board: Audit: Investment: shareholders generally.
As Chief Executive, David Bellamys Nomination: Remuneration: and Risk.
The membership and primary responsibility is to manage the Company via the terms of reference of the committees are reviewed annually and executive management team and implement the strategies the terms of reference are available on the corporate website adopted by the Board.
co. uk, or on request from the Company Secretary.
Biographical details for members of these Committees are set out The Senior Independent Director on pages 52 and 53.
Iain Cornish is the Senior Independent Director, having succeeded Sarah Bates in January 2014.
The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board and confidant for the Chairman and the Nonexecutive Directors.
Iain ensures he is available to meet with shareholders and raises shareholder concerns with the Board that are not resolved through normal channels.
58 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance Report continued Attendance at Meetings Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary at The attendance by individual Directors at Board meetings during all times, as well as independent professional advice where needed the year ended 31 December 2013 was as follows: in order to assist them in carrying out their duties.
Board Board Evaluation 6 meetings Following the externallyled evaluations carried out by Sarah Bates 6 6 Independent Audit Limited in 2011 and 2012, and in light of the Vivian Bazalgette 6 6 significant changes to the Board during the year, the Board David Bellamy 6 6 1 undertook a formal internal evaluation exercise in 2013.
The Steve Colsell 3 3 Iain Cornish 6 6 Chairman assessed the individual performance of each of the Andrew Croft 6 6 members of the Board by a process involving interviews with each Ian Gascoigne 6 6 Board member, and the provision of feedback where relevant.
2 Charles Gregson 6 6 This process also enabled the Chairman to review the completion 1 Sue Harris 2 3 of the various actions arising from the Board evaluation carried 1 Alison Hewitt 3 3 out in 2012 and to carry out a handover process with the David Lamb 6 6 incoming Chairman, Sarah Bates, prior to him stepping down 2 Mike Power 6 6 from the Board at the end of 2013.
Baroness Wheatcroft 6 6 Relations with Shareholders 1 Steve Colsell ceased being a member of the Board with effect from 1 June 2013 The Board maintains close relationships with institutional and Sue Harris and Alison Hewitt were appointed nonindependent Nonexecutive Directors on 1 June 2013, as representatives of Lloyds Banking Group LBG shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings and the pursuant to the Relationship Agreement between the Company and LBG.
Under Chief Financial Officer provides feedback to the Board on any this agreement, LBG was entitled to appoint up to two Nonexecutive Directors to the SJP Board.
The agreement terminated in accordance with its terms on material topics raised by shareholders.
The Company also meets 13December 2013 following the disposal by LBG of its shareholding in SJP.
As a regularly with the Groups brokers who facilitate meetings with consequence Sue Harris and Alison Hewitt ceased being members of the Board investors and their representatives.
The Chairman, Senior with effect from 31 December 2013.
2 Charles Gregson and Mike Power ceased being members of the Board with effect Independent Director and other Nonexecutive Directors are from 31 December 2013. available for consultation with shareholders on request.
Board members receive copies of the latest analysts and brokers reports The Group Risk Director is invited to attend some Board on the Company and attend shareholder and or analyst meetings meetings during the year to present his Group Risk report.
also attends Risk and Audit Committee meetings during the year.
How is your Board Supported?
Induction and Continuing Professional Development An appropriate induction programme is designed to enable new Directors to meet senior management, understand the business and future strategy, the main risks potentially affecting the Group, visit office locations and speak directly to Partners and staff around the country.
During 2014, the Chairman and the Company Secretary will continue to implement the induction programmes for Simon Jeffreys and Roger Yates, and will also ensure continuing professional development for all your Directors, based on their individual requirements.
This includes training on topical issues, visits to head office and other locations to meet with staff and members of the Partnership and attend seminars or other events taking place throughout the year.
In addition to this, ad hoc training is set up in the year to deal with individual requests and the Nonexecutive Directors are able to attend seminars or conferences which they consider will assist them in carrying out their duties.
Nonexecutive Directors are briefed on the views of major shareholders at Board meetings and are provided with the opportunity to meet with shareholders, as necessary.
