22 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Our approach to governance Exemplary governance is key to our long-term success, enabling us to deliver sustainable shareholder value Our approach to governance Corporate governance Governance is the framework of systems, processes and Exemplary corporate governance is essential for delivering controls used to ensure the effective management of the Group.
sustainable shareholder value and, as a leading international bank, we are at the forefront of corporate governance practices.
We have an integrated approach to governance which is We believe that simply complying with written corporate applicable to both our subsidiaries and our branches.
This governance standards is not enough.
It is vital for companies ensures that the Group is effectively managed and controlled, tohave an underlying culture with behaviours and values that inline with our strategy, in keeping with our values and culture, support effective corporate governance.
and with regard to the requirements of our key stakeholders.
Inaddition to customers and clients, these key stakeholders While being mindful of the need to avoid restricting the include governments, regulators, shareholders, employees autonomy of the Groups subsidiaries, we have focused on andthe communities in which we operate.
ensuring we have processes and mechanisms in place so that issues being raised at subsidiary level are adequately The Group operates in a diverse range of countries with considered at Group level and vice versa.
inherent differences in revenues, size of balance sheet, Further details concerning our approach to corporate complexity of products, clients, operating environment, branch governance disclosures canbefound on page 146. distribution and corporate structure.
Our robust approach to governance combines consistent globally applied policies, Who is on our Board procedures and standards across the Groups multiple The Board has been evolving in 2013 as part of our multi-year locations, businesses, functions and legal entities.
These are Board succession plan the Plan.
In line with the Plan, during subject only to variations in local laws and regulations and are 2013 we were at the height of our transition phase, balancing delivered within a culture of transparency, accountability and longevity with new joiners to our Board.
The Groups approach to governance is there are21 directors on the Board.
However by the end of underpinned by the legal and regulatory framework in each May2014wewill have 18 Board members: the Chairman, ofthe countries in which we operate.
veexecutivedirectors and 12 independent non-executive directors.
A further non-executive director will step down Exemplary standards of governance are crucial to our duringthe course of 2014. successand ultimately depend as much on behaviour as A list of individual directors and their biographies are set out on onstructure and process.
It is the responsibility of all of our pages 138to142.
employees to be responsive and vigilant to ensure compliance with both the letter and spirit of our governance framework.
The Board and its committees AtStandard Chartered, each and every employee is expected The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its committees to live the Groups brand promise, Here for good, and to build toassist it in carrying out its function of ensuring independent on a culture which is open and challenging yet cohesive and oversight.
With the exception of the Board Regulatory Compliance collaborative.
We take care to ensure that all employees have Oversight Committee and the Governance Committee, which and demonstrate the necessary skills, values and experience hasboth executive and non-executive membership, the board commensurate with their responsibilities.
We place as committees are made up of independent non-executive directors muchemphasis on the way employees behave as on what and play a key role in supporting theBoard.
An overview of the activities of the Board and itscommittees can be found on pages 144 to 175.
Group Board committee structure Standard Chartered PLC Board Primary committees Enabling committees Special purpose committee Audit Board Risk Brand and Remuneration Nomination Governance Board Regulatory Values Compliance Oversight Oversight Oversight Oversight and Oversight Oversight and Oversight of and review of and review of review of brand and review of review of Board overall Board Oversight of financial, audit fundamental positioning, remuneration, and executive effectiveness matters relating and internal prudential treating share plans and succession and governance to the Groups control issues risks including customers fairly, other incentives issues compliance with its obligations under credit, market, reputational risk, capital, liquidity, ethics and the settlements with 1 operational sustainability the US authorities risk, country issues in relation to cross-border US sanctions compliance and risk and pension risk related matters 1 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Ofce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED
