144 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance Exemplary governance is key to our long-term success, enabling us to deliver sustainable shareholder value Dear Shareholder We believe that good governance contributes to the long-term success of a company, creating trust and engagement between the company and its stakeholders.
Exemplary governance standards and ethics are core to our strategic intent, and we have clear, well understood governance practices throughout the Group.
From supporting our clients and customers to investing in local communities, we can be a powerful force for good.
However, we recognise that a strong governance framework alone is not enough to achieve our long-term ambitions.
Strong internal controls, values and culture, all of which are embedded across the Group and reected in the behaviour of our employees every day, are also of vital importance.
In 2013, weintensied our focus on conduct.
Getting conduct right is essential if we are to strengthen trust in the banking industry.
During the year, the Board endorsed an updated Group Code of Conduct which is more closely aligned with the Groups values and strategic intent.
Sir John Peace For many years we have measured and rewarded performance Chairman both in terms of what employees achieve and how they achieve it, and we have ample evidence that this has a positive effect on how well our culture and values are embedded across the Group.
E xemplary governance is key to our In addition to our values, key elements of Standard Chartereds long-term success of the company.
culture include a spirit of transparency, open-mindedness, inquiry, collaboration and constructive challenge.
Through exemplary governance we On 9 January 2014 we announced that, with effect from can create and deliver sustainable 1April2014, we are integrating our two businesses, Wholesale shareholder value.
Banking and Consumer Banking, to form one business.
The combined business will be led by Mike Rees.
Reorganising ourbusiness is an important step as we implement our new strategic aspirations as outlined at our Investor Day in November 2013.
In addition, we announced that Steve Bertamini, Chief Executive officer Consumer Banking, and Richard Meddings, Group Finance Director, will be stepping down from the Board on 31 March 2014 and by 30 June 2014 respectively.
I would like to thank both Richard and Steve for their valuable contributions to the Board over the past 11 and six years respectively, and wish them well for the future.
Corporate governance 145 Board diversity, in all its respects, remains a key consideration for us and we continue to take a forward-looking approach torefreshing our Board composition.
Our Board has a diverse mix of nationalities, skills, experience and geographic exposure, to maximise its effectiveness and enable us to respond appropriately to the greater demands currently being placed onBoard members.
During the year, we approved a Board Diversity Policy, including a Board gender target, and have set out how we plan to achieve this target by 2017.
In line with our multi-year Board succession plan, the membership of our Board has continued to evolve and during2013 the Board was at the height of its transition phase, balancing longevity with new joiners to our Board.
Since November 2012, there have been seven new joiners to the Board and by the end of 2014, eight members of the Board willhave stepped down.
However, we cannot be complacent and we will continue to refresh our Board membership to ensure that it retains the right dynamics.
I am delighted to welcome Om Bhatt, Louis Cheung, Christine Hodgson, Kurt Campbell and Naguib Kheraj who have joined the Board since 1 January 2013.
They bring significant business leadership, political, financial and accounting experience to the Board and complement our existing Board membership.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Margaret Ewing who stepped down in January 2014 due to ill-health.
We wishher all the best for the future.
I would also like to thank Rudy Markham, Jamie Dundas and Oliver Stocken who are stepping down this year, for their considerable contribution toStandard Chartered.
Their continuity of service and commitment has provided an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Group which has been of enormous valueover the years.
The 2013 Board Effectiveness Review reafrmed the benets ofour ongoing Board succession plan.
During 2014, we will be conducting an externally facilitated review, the findings of which will be reported next year.
Sir John Peace Chairman 5 March 2014 146 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued Our approach to corporate governance disclosures We believe in the importance of having a unitary board where We seek to deliver exemplary corporate governance across the executives who represent the key aspects of the business theGroup.
Our aim is to provide insight into how we meet the and markets in which we operate are represented on the Board.
spirit of corporate governance through adopting a discursive We believe that this allows shareholders to have direct line of approach to our disclosures.
We apply the provisions of the sight to these executives and that there is greater accountability UK Financial Reporting Councils Corporate Governance Code for these individuals as directors distinct from their executive the Code.
We also apply and comply with the provisions of responsibilities.
Feedback from the 2013 Board effectiveness the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code as set out in review commented on the value of the Board hearing multiple Appendix 14 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules and have complied executive perspectives at Board level, stating that this positively with its mandatoryprovisions.
In addition to gaining executive perspectives at Board meetings, our independent The Board held nine scheduled Meetings in 2013, exceeding non-executive directors have unfettered access to management the requirement of Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code as part of their overseas visits to our markets and through their which requires every listed issuer to hold board meetings at ongoing induction and engagement programmes.
The composition of the Board, with 12independent non-executive directors out of the 18-member In 2013, we welcomed Om Bhatt, Louis Cheung, Kurt Campbell Board, well exceeds the requirements of the Hong Kong and Christine Hodgson to our Board as independent Corporate Governance Code.
Their appointments were part of the second phase of the Boards multi-year succession planning The Company has, for some time, had an established exercise designed to enhance the experience, depth and Remuneration, Nomination, Audit, Board Risk, Brand and diversity of the Board, as outlined in the 2011 and 2012 Annual Values and Governance Committees with written terms of Report and Accounts.
Kurt has significant US governmental reference to oversee particular aspects of the Companys experience and deep knowledge of some of our key markets, affairs.
The Terms of Reference for all of our board committees notably across Asia.
Christine brings strong business are available on the Group website.
leadership, accounting, finance and technology experience Copies of the Code and the Hong Kong Listing Rules can tothe Board.
Naguib Kheraj was appointed as an independent non-executive The directors consider that the Group has complied with the director from 1 January 2014 and brings to the Board extensive provisions of the Code during the year ended 31 December international banking, finance and business leadership 2013 with the exception of conducting an externally facilitated experience.
The rationale for not conducting an Margaret Ewing, an independent non-executive director, externally facilitated review is set out on page 150.
Throughout stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 January 2014 this Corporate governance section we have provided a narrative for health reasons.
Margaret was appointed to the Board on statement as to how the principles set out in the Hong Kong 1November 2012 and was a member of both the Audit Listing Rules and the main principles of the Code have been Committee and Remuneration Committee.
applied to enable evaluation of their application.
Rudy Markham and Jamie Dundas, both independent To the extent applicable, information required by paragraphs non-executive directors, will be stepping down from the 13 2 c, d, f, h and i of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium Boardwith effect from 1 May 2014.
Naguib Kheraj will become Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports theChairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 May Regulations 2008 is available in the Report of the directors on 2014 and Lars Thunell will become Chairman of the Board Risk page 213.
Committee with effect from 1 April 2014. Who is on our Board Oliver Stocken, an independent non-executive director, will be The Board has been evolving in 2013 as part of our multi-year stepping down from the Board before the end of 2014.
Board succession plan, the Plan.
In line with the Plan, during On 9 January 2014, we announced that Steve Bertamini and 2013, we were at the height of our transition phase balancing Richard Meddings will be stepping down from the Board as longevity with new joiners to our Board.
As at 5 March, there are executive directors with effect from 31 March and by 30 June 21 directors on the Board.
However, by the end of May 2014, 2014 respectively.
As part of our business reorganisation, also wewill have 18 Board members: the Chairman, five executive announced on 9 January 2014, Mike Reess appointment as directors and 12 non-executive directors.
As at 31 December Deputy Group Chief Executive will take effect on 1 April 2014.
2013, the average tenure on our Board was just over five years.
A list of individual directors and their biographies are set out on Ruth Markland replaced Rudy Markham as Senior Independent pages 138 to 142.
Details of board committee membership are Director from 1 July 2013.
Ruth has been an independent set out on page 155 of this report.
non-executive director of the Company since 2003 and has chaired the Remuneration Committee since 2006.
Corporate governance 147 Changes to the Board Boards effectiveness, we take a long-term, sustainable and measured approach.
We believe that all Board appointments 23 should be based on meritocracy and that diversity in all its 1 22 aspects, including gender diversity, is important.
22 1 1 21 In accordance with the Capital Requirements Directive IV 21 21 21 1 1 CRDIV, while we are reticent to set quotas, we agree that, in 20 2 the spirit of meritocracy and embracing diversity and inclusion 20 20 1 in all its aspects, we will aim to have 25 per cent female 19 2 19 19 representation on the Board of Standard Chartered PLC by the 18 2 end of 2017.
The Nomination Committee will oversee plans to 18 achieve this, balancing all the factors needed to maximise the 17 Boards effectiveness.
Further details of how this will be 17 achieved can be found on page 174.
16 Through our multi-year Board succession plan, we continue 15 Jan May June Sept Jan Mar May end 2014 todemonstrate our commitment to refreshing the Boards 2013 2014 composition regularly.
Since November 2012, seven new independent non-executive directors have been appointed to Our Boards composition and succession plans the Board and by the end of 2014, eight members of the Board Standard Chartered, with its distinctive footprint, has a long will have stepped down.
In 2014, three of our long-standing history of diverse Board membership.
Currently, we have a independent non-executive directors and two of our executive diverse mix of ethnicity, gender and experience on the Board, directors will also step down.
We are currently undertaking the including two women and seven different nationalities.
There process of identifying Richard Meddings replacement as are 12 directors who have lived and worked across Asia, Africa Group Finance Director, for which both internal and external and or the Middle East.
We will continue to refresh Our Board comprises individuals who have diverse skills, our Board membership to ensure that it retains the right knowledge and experiences that combine to provide different dynamics.
perspectives and effective board dynamics.
In maximising the Number of independent non-executive directors visiting our markets in 2013 Sweden 1 China Geneva 4 1 Hong Kong Bahrain Dubai 16 1 3 Taiwan Thailand 3 India 1 3 Ghana Nigeria 12 Uganda 1 Kenya 1 Singapore 1 5 Zambia 1 Botswana 1 South Africa 2 The Group believes that our open and challenging, yet cohesive During 2013, the Group estimates that each independent and collaborative, culture, whereby all of our independent non-executive director spent at least 30 days on board-related non-executive directors have unfettered access to management duties and, for those who chaired and sat on multiple and information, has enabled us to achieve high standards of committees, up to 100 days.
Our independent non-executive directors The diagram on page 148 gives an overview of how the Board travel extensively to our markets to have the opportunity to as a whole rather than committees spent its time in 2013 and validate our strategy and gain an on-the-ground understanding the role of the board committees is described on pages 154 of the opportunities and risks that we face.
Tosupport this, it to 175. was notable that our independent non-executive directors made 57 visits to countries across our footprint in 2013.
Board members Val Gooding Richard Delbridge Kurt Campbell Christine Hodgson Naguib Kheraj Margaret Ewing Steve Bertamini Jamie Dundas Rudy Markham new Group Finance Director Richard Meddings Oliver Stocken e g c d t o R n h n v i a a g e s i r t m k s e n 5 2 r r a g a o e n d n f v d u r c o e B e p r S e t l a y a g k t i e e o t 148 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued Continued to review the key Debated the lessons learned from How the Board spent its time in 2013 external themes that will most our past compliance with US directly shape the banking sanctions and the subsequent industrys outlook and the settlements with the US 1 1 potential implications for the authorities, with particular focus competitive landscape on what additional improvements should be implemented above Assessed the competitive and those already taken regulatory developments in Chinas banking landscape Established a new special morebroadly purpose committee the BoardRegulatory Compliance Debated the developing global and Oversight Committee to macroeconomic environment with provide oversight to the Groups internal and external input ongoing obligations arising Considered the appropriate fromthe settlements with the responses to the key regulatory USauthorities changes faced by the Group and Following recommendation from industry as a whole, including the the Audit Committee, approved impact of CRDIV for recommendation to shareholders that, following the 4 external tender process, KPMG Stakeholder relationships Audit Plc be appointed as the i. e. investors, clients, Group Statutory Auditors customers, regulators and communities Continued to focus on the Engaged with our retail effective linkages between the shareholders at the AGM Board and its committee 1 2 Considered the findings of Received an update on the Strategy Budget and performance thePrudential Regulation Groups approach to Held a series of strategy sessions, oversight Authoritys PRA 2013 Periodic technologyrisk including our annual two-day Maintained oversight of the Summary Meeting offsite, to approve the Groups performance in line Discussed the initial findings of Approved the Groups Recovery implementation of our refreshed withmarket expectations theFinancial Conduct Authority and Resolution Plan for strategy including new strategic financial crime assessments Flexed our financial metrics with submission to the PRA aspirations and a revised financial the introduction of a new fifth 6 performance framework Engaged with key clients and financial metric for investors People, culture and values customers as part of the Boards Discussed the opportunities around risk-weighted assets Following input from the Brand overseas visits andchallenges in serving the RWA jaws earnings growth to and Values Committee, endorsed medium-sized enterprise and beahead of RWA growth Considered external insights and the refresh of the Groups Code of middle-market segments, views on the US political and Assessed the strength of Conduct which aligned with the including the proposition for regulatory environment theGroups capital and Groups values and Here for good ourclients liquidityposition brand promise Participated in community Discussed our strategy in key activities as part of the Boards Focused on key parts of the Examined the key external geographies and regions as part overseas visits and offsite, Groups franchise, including inuences that are shaping our of the Boards overseas visits including Seeing is Believing, Korea, India and Taiwan, where people agenda ourcommunity investment Debated the Groups US strategy the external environment and Discussed some of the key people projectthat aims to eliminate and 2016 aspirations banking market have grown challenges we face over the next avoidable blindness morechallenging Considered our progress and five years and how our thinking on aspirations with regard to the Approved the 2014 budget and people strategy is evolving 5 renminbi, its potential future capital plan Risk and governance Approved the appointment of three development and the implications Periodically reviewed the Approved the Boards Risk new independent non-executive for the Group Companys share price, Appetite Statement and satisfied directors as part of our multi-year Reviewed Consumer Bankings performance metrics, register itself that the 2014 budget was Board succession plan progress in executing against its activity and institutional investor aligned to this Approved a Board Diversity Policy strategy in China and its priorities and analyst perceptions Received assurance during the which included a Board gender for 2013 year that the Group continued target and the plans to achieve this 3 Continued to focus on how tooperate within its approved External environment Continued to focus on the overall theGroup keeps pace with riskappetite Assessed our overall position in effectiveness of the Board and technological change our key businesses and footprint individual directors andinnovation markets and the implications for The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board together Approved the entry into new the Group withthe board committees terms of reference are available on geographical territories for the www.
com Group, e. g. Mozambique 1 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Approved the five-year plan Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Ofce and2014budget DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED 4 h a n r o s t l h S d i p e s r e r e s u n e t E l v u u x i l r c t a o e 6 3, v n e r l d n m p n a o e l a e n t P Corporate governance 149 The Chairmans role Board effectiveness The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are Director induction and ongoing engagement plans quitedistinct from one another and are clearly dened in role We have a very extensive, robust and tailor-made induction descriptions which are available on our website.
The Chairman andongoing development programme in place for our Board plays a critical role in ensuring the Boards overall effectiveness members.
This has continued to evolve over the last five years.
and carries a particular responsibility to monitor and assess Each engagement programme typically consists of a mix of theGroups corporate governance practices.
Sir John Peace briengs on specialist topics, attendance at key management holdsmeetings with the independent non-executive directors, meetings and additional visits to our markets.
In addition to without the executive directors, to assess their views.
In overseas board meetings, non-executive directors will undertake addition, the non-executive directors have met without the one or two additional overseas visits during the year.
For those Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
independent non-executive directors who bring to the Board Such meetings are chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
non-financial services experience, the induction programmes As part of the Boards annual effectiveness review feedback, arevery in-depth and cover areas such as the basics of alldirectors commented on the Chairmans highly effective and banking, including modules on sources of income, geographic engaging style, stating that he is thoughtful and encourages diversity, client distribution, andtraditional and modern banking open dialogue enabling everyone to contribute effectively.
Feedback from our 2013 Board effectiveness review commended the opportunities provided to our directors The Board and its committees forcontinued learning and stated that our independent The Board is accountable for the long-term success of the non-executive director induction programmes were Group and for providing leadership within a framework of comprehensive yet focused for individual needs.
The Board is also responsible for setting More broadly, the directors are supported by dedicated strategic targets and for ensuring that the Group is suitably corporate secretariat resources and have access to resourced to achieve those targets.
In doing so, the Board independent professional advice at the Groups expense takesaccount of its responsibilities to the Groups stakeholders, wherethey judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities including the Groups employees, shareholders, suppliers and as directors.
Processes are also in place to ensure the timely the communities in which it operates.
provision of information to directors.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its committees Directors induction and ongoing development to assist it in carrying out its function of ensuring independent Attendance oversight.
With the exception of the Board Regulatory Briengs on at Audit and specialist Visits to our Board Risk Compliance Oversight and Governance Committees, the and markets and Committee boardcommittees are made up of independent non-executive Induction regulatory with local half-day training topics management sessions directors and play a key role in supporting the Board.
An overview of the activities of the Boards committees can be Sir John Peace N A found on pages 154 to 175.
P A Sands N A The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
There were nine O P Bhatt scheduled meetings this year including two overseas visits to J S Bindra N A Hong Kong and to Ghana.
Dr K M Campbell Details of individual Board directors attendance at meetings in2013 are set out in the table on page 152.
Dr L Cheung J F T Dundas N A C M Hodgson S J Lowth N A R H P Markham N A R Markland N A J G H Paynter N A A M G Rees N A Dr Han Seung-soo N A V Shankar N A P D Skinner N A O H J Stocken N A Dr L H Thunell Applicable to new directors who were appointed in 2012 and 2013 150 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued Board effectiveness review Overall, directors felt that the Board remained highly effective We stated in our 2012 Annual Report and Accounts that, all in2013 against a challenging external backdrop.
All directors things being equal, the intention was that an externally facilitated commented on the evolution of the Boards composition, Board and committee effectiveness review would be conducted notingthe positive aspects of increased diversity and fresh in 2013.
Given that seven new independent non-executive perspectives.
Positive feedback was also received regarding directors have joined our Board since November 2012, and five the planning for and execution of this transition.
Given this Board members will have stepped down from the Board by the backdrop of relative strength, in the spirit of continuous end of May 2014, it was felt that there would be little merit in improvement, the directors provided suggestions for Board conducting an externally facilitated review in 2013.
Over the enhancement as set out in the following table.
The Board coming weeks we plan to invite external board effectiveness recognised the Group Chairmans and Group Chief Executives facilitators to tender for the 2014 review.
We will report the contribution to ensure the smooth transition.
Newer directors findings of the review in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
commented on the value they gained from the longstanding directors during the transition process.
In light of this, in 2013 the Board has used a free-style evaluation approach which worked well in 2012.
Facilitated bythe Group Company Secretary, directors were invited to express their top of mind thoughts and feelings on any aspectsof the Boards effectiveness in a free-style format.
Inaddition to the feedback received from directors, the Chairman heldone-to-one discussions with each Board member.
TheBoard effectiveness feedback was discussed bythe Governance Committee.
A discussion then took place within the Board, following which an action plan to address thendings was developed.
Summary of the themes identied in the 2013 Board effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken 2013 2012 Theme action identied Actions taken to be taken Theme action identied Actions taken Continued discussion The Nomination Committee Ensure that the Board Senior management has continued to and focus on Board hascommenced the process continues to make space engage with directors individually and composition and forthe appointment of a new tofocus on the key the Board collectively in shaping the succession planning Group Finance Director and strategicissues Boards strategic agenda theidentication of suitable As part of the 2013 Strategy Board candidates for appointment meeting the Board focused on the asindependent non-executive challenges facing the Group.
directors through to 2016 Management updated the Board on The Chairman will continue itscurrent thinking on the Group toprovide periodic updates to strategic core more detail can be theBoard on the Nomination found on pages 6 to 11, resulting in Committees discussions.
He abroad-ranging conversation which willalso continue the practice included consideration on what ofmeeting with the independent elements of the Groups business were non-executive directors most critical to its strategic future informally to provide updates Guarding against complacency will onthe evolving thinking on continue to be a focus for the Board executive and independent and its committees non-executive succession planning Corporate governance 151 Summary of the themes identied in the 2013 Board effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken 2013 2012 Theme action identied Actions taken to be taken Theme action identied Actions taken Continued focus on As part of the transition of new Ensure the Board remains Induction programmes for new thelinkages between chairs to the Audit Committee and effective during its transition directors are tailored to enable the Board and its Board Risk Committee, we will themtocontribute effectively.
committees review the remit of both these Commendations were received committees during 2014 fromour new non-executive directorson the induction process We will continue to review the and ongoing support received from membership of the board Board members, seniormanagement committees to ensure there and our Group Secretariat function isasufcient overlap of memberswith appropriate skillsand capabilities Review the Boards We have refreshed the Boards Ensure the right balance In addition to regular risk information strategic rolling rolling agenda through to our between the nature of risk provided to the Board, we have agendain light of the strategy board in June 2014. information and discussions introduced a further periodic risk refreshed strategy and Thiswill be further reviewed occurring at Board level report to the Board, timed for organisational changes andupdated following the versus those conducted at submission around the Board Risk Junediscussions the Board Risk Committee Committees assessment against the Groups Risk Appetite Statement.
The When setting the Boards agenda, Group Chief Risk officer attended the we will look to achieve the right Board meeting for this item balance in terms of allocating time to the different areas of focus Continued focus As part of the transition of new onsharpening the chairs to the Audit Committee and information provided Board Risk Committee, we will tothe Board, while review the information ows to balancing this with these committees theneed to ensure We will continue to review the thatdirectors receive nature of the information provided the information to the Board and opportunities for necessary to full their further renement will be duties effectively identied and implemented in2014 152 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued Number of Board meetings held in 2013 Re-election of directors The performance of all directors is rigorously reviewed on an Scheduled annual basis and this is used as the basis for recommending meetings Ad hoc Board members 9 1 re-election of directors to shareholders.
Details of the review process can be found on page 173 in the overview of the Sir John Peace Chairman 9 9 1 1 Nomination Committees activities.
P A Sands 9 9 1 1 In line with the UK Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate R H P Markham 9 9 1 1 Governance Code, for the last two years we have adopted the R H Meddings 9 9 1 1 practice of proposing all of our directors for annual re-election S P Bertamini 9 9 1 1 atthe Companys AGM.
In 2013, the Group held one general meeting, our AGM.
All of our Board members attended the O P Bhatt 9 9 1 1 AGM with the exception of John Paynter who was not able to J S Bindra 9 9 1 1 attend due to ill-health.
At the AGM, all of our directors were Dr K M Campbell 4 5 0 0 re-elected.
As Steve Bertamini, Jamie Dundas and Rudy Markham will be stepping down from our Board before our Dr L Cheung 9 9 1 1 AGM on 8 May 2014, they will not be proposed for re-election.
R Delbridge 3 3 1 1 As Oliver Stocken and Richard Meddings will be stepping J F T Dundas 8 91 1 downfrom the Board during 2014, they will not be standing for re-election at the AGM.
All of the other directors will be standing M Ewing 9 9 1 1 for election or re-election at our 2014 AGM.
V F Gooding 3 3 1 1 Dr Han Seung-soo 9 9 1 1 Assessment of director independence The Board is satisfied that all of our non-executive directors are C M Hodgson 3 3 0 0 independent.
Our Nomination Committee conducts a rigorous S J Lowth 7 9 1 1 assessment of those independent non-executive directors who R Markland 9 9 1 1 have served more than six years.
However, given that all of the Nomination Committee members, excluding the Chairman, J G H Paynter 6 9 1 1 have served on the Board for more than nine years, it was A M G Rees 9 9 1 1 decided that, on this occasion, it was more appropriate that V Shankar 9 9 1 1 this matter be dealt with by the Board.
The relevant directors, Ruth Markland and Paul Skinner recused themselves from the P D Skinner 9 9 1 1 Board conversation.
O H J Stocken 8 9 1 1 The Board noted that Ruths and Pauls continuity of service Dr L H Thunell 8 9 1 1 and commitment provided an in-depth knowledge and Stepped down from the Board with effect from 1 May 2013 understanding of the Group which was invaluable to the Board.
Joined the Board on 18 June 2013 In addition they had demonstrated excellent stewardship as Joined the Board on 1 September 2013 Absent from one Board meeting due to ill-health Chairs of the relevant board committees.
The Board was Absent from three Board meetings due to ill-health unanimous in agreeing that both individuals continued to demonstrate the attributes of an independent non-executive director and there was no evidence that their tenure had External directorships impacted on their independence.
It was confirmed that each The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only one ofthe directors remain independent.
non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
All of our executive and independent non-executive directors are compliant with the requirements under the CRD IV which will come into effect on 1July 2014 in terms of the number of executive and non-executive directorships held.
Details of the directors other directorships can be found in theirbiographies on pages 138 to 142.
We closely monitor theoutside business interests of the independent non-executive directors.
Before taking on an additional role, both executive and independent non-executive directors will confirm that no conict arises from that role and provide assurance that the appointment will have no adverse impact on the ability to continue to full his her role as a director of the Company.
Committee chairs are particularly mindful of their obligations.
Whenever needed during the year, directors have consistently demonstrated their ability to provide any additional time commitment needed.
Corporate governance 153 Subsidiary governance philosophy and linkages PeterSands also hosts an annual call with the independent The Group continues to have one governance infrastructure non-executive directors on our subsidiary boards.
For a number across all countries, irrespective of whether the main activities of years, Rudy, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, has of the Group are operated through a branch or subsidiary.
hosted a call with all of the chairmen of the subsidiary audit Governance is managed across the Groups eight geographic committees, and in 2013 Jamie Dundas, as Chairman of our regions under the governance oversight of Jaspal Bindra, Board Risk Committee, hosted a similar call with all the Group Executive Director and Chief Executive officer, Asia and chairmen of the subsidiary risk committees.
V Shankar, Group Executive Director and Chief Executive We are continuously looking at ways to improve our model for officer, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Americas.
In addition, engagement of our independent non-executive directors so Corporate Secretariat is run as a global function with consistent these are well informed and able to make decisions that are policies and standards.
aligned to the Group interests.
Management of geographic governance is structured to cover economic and political developments, financial performance, Directors securities transactions governance and risks, franchise development and people.
The Company confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct regarding securities transactions by directors on terms no less As at 31 December 2013, the Group had 28 banking exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong Listing subsidiaries and 65 non-executive directors excluding our Rules.
Having made specic enquiry of all directors, the Group PLC Board independent non-executive directors.
The confirms that all directors have complied with the required independent non-executive directors on our Board play a standards of the adopted code of conduct.
critical role through their active engagement with banking subsidiary independent non-executive directors as they travel throughout the Groups footprint.
An annual African Chairmens Conference is held where the chairmen of our African subsidiaries meet.
Sir John interacts with the African chairmen at this event.
Group Board committee structure Standard Chartered PLC Board Primary committees Enabling committees Special purpose committee Audit Board Risk Brand and Remuneration Nomination Governance Board Regulatory Values Compliance Oversight Oversight Oversight Oversight and Oversight Oversight and Oversight of and review of and review of review of brand and review of review of Board overall Board Oversight of matters relating financial, audit fundamental positioning, remuneration, and executive effectiveness and internal prudential treating share plans and succession and governance to the Groups control issues risks including customers fairly, other incentives issues compliance with its credit, market, reputational risk, obligations under capital, liquidity, ethics and the settlements with 2 the US authorities operational sustainability risk, country issues in relation to cross-border US sanctions risk and compliance and pension risk related matters 2 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Ofce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED 154 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued Board committees We have effective mechanisms in place to ensure that there Our Board has made a conscious decision to delegate a areno gaps or unnecessary duplications between the remit broader range of issues to the Board committees.
These mechanisms include overlapping between the committees and the Board are critical, given that it membership between board committees and regular is impractical for all independent non-executive directors to be interaction between the committee chairs.
The Group also members of all the committees.
hasa dedicated resource within Corporate Secretariat responsible for the effectiveness of each board committee In addition to there being common committee membership, andall of the board committees together in fulfilling their theBoard receives the minutes or a written summary of each oversight responsibilities.
of the committees meetings excluding the Nomination Committee.
In addition to the minutes, the committee chairs The Board Risk Committee maintains enterprise-wide oversight provide regular updates to the Board throughout the year.
Alongside this, each of the board committees our multi-year Board succession plan, committee membership takes primary responsibility for relevant risk types.
For instance, is not static and evolves from time to time.
As part of balancing the Brand and Values Committee has primary oversight of stability and benefiting from fresh perspectives in 2013, the reputational risks.
The Remuneration Committee oversees risk membership of five of the Board committees was refreshed.
The Board Risk Committee has The chairmen of our Audit and Board Risk Committees will also primary oversight accountability for credit, capital, market, change as Rudy Markham and Jamie Dundas step down as the liquidity, operational, country cross-border and pension risk and respective Committee Chairmen, and Naguib Kheraj and the Audit Committee oversees the management of financial and Lars Thunell are appointed Chairmen as successors.
The roles of the board committees are described further on pages 154 to 175.
Primary PLC Board Committee Primary PLC Board Committee membership overlap as at 5 March 2014 membership overlap as at 1 May 2014 Risk Risk Chair: Jamie Dundas Chair: Lars Thunell Om Bhatt Om Bhatt Simon Lowth Simon Lowth Oliver Stocken Oliver Stocken Rudy Markham Naguib Kheraj Lars Thunell Naguib Kheraj Jamie Lars Dundas Thunell Ruth Ruth Paul Paul Brand and Values Audit Brand and Values Audit Markland Markland Skinner Skinner Chair: Paul Skinner Chair: Paul Skinner Chair: Naguib Kheraj Chair: Rudy Markham Dr Han Seung-soo Dr Han Seung-Soo Christine Hodgson John Paynter Christine Hodgson John Paynter Louis Cheung Louis Cheung Remuneration Remuneration Chair: Ruth Markland Chair: Ruth Markland Corporate governance 155 As part of their individualised engagement programme, and how this exposure is monitored and controlled and duringthe year our independent non-executive directors are potential local regulatory trends.
In 2014, we will continue to encouraged to attend meetings of committees of which they are focus upon and evolve our approach to ensuring these critical not members, to gain greater insight to the work undertaken linkages between the Board and its committees.
In addition in 2013, four Audit and The Board Regulatory Compliance Oversight Committee was Board Risk Committees half-day sessions were held to which all established in 2013 and fulls a significant role in overseeing, on independent non-executive directors were invited.
These behalf of the Board, matters relating to the Groups compliance sessions provided the opportunity for more in-depth discussion with its obligations under the settlements with the US on key strategic issues of relevance to the committees.
This includes its responses to other requests, the opportunity was also taken as part of the two overseas subpoenas and orders from any Federal or State US, or other Board meetings in Ghana and Hong Kong for the Brand and relevant authority in respect of such settlements and or the Values Committee and Board Risk Committee to hold focused Groups historic and current compliance with US sanctions discussions with local management.
In Ghana, there was an regulations.
This committee has both executive and informal Brand and Values Committee session which provided independent non-executive director membership, on the basis insight into the Groups socio-economic contribution in Ghana.
that the executive directors have oversight responsibilities for In Hong Kong, the Board Risk Committee held a focused the delivery of the obligations under the settlements with the discussion concerning the shape of Chinas banking landscape, 3 USauthorities.
the Groups strategy towards and exposure to Chinese banks Current membership of the Board Committees Standard Board Chartered Regulatory Brand and Compliance PLC Audit Board Risk Nomination Remuneration Values Governance Oversight Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Sir John Peace P A Sands O P Bhatt J S Bindra Dr K M Campbell Dr L Cheung J F T Dundas C M Hodgson N Kheraj S J Lowth R H P Markham R Markland R H Meddings J G H Paynter A M G Rees Dr Han Seung-soo V Shankar P D Skinner O H J Stocken Dr L H Thunell Chairman Member 3 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Ofce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED 156 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Audit Committee Dear Shareholder Each year the Committee undertakes an effectiveness review.
The findings from this years review and the action taken Through its work in 2013, the Committee has provided following last years findings are detailed on page 162.
Such assurance to the Board with regard to the quality and reviews provide the Committee with the opportunity to take effectiveness of financial reporting on regulatory, astep back and look at how we, as an audit committee, are compliance and internal audit matters, thereby performing.
Are we meeting the requirements of our terms protecting the interest of shareholders.
Are we grasping the big issues and not As reported in the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts and in over-focusing on the small ones?
Is the Committee focusing linewith the UK Financial Reporting Councils recommendations, onthe core issues the Group needs to be concerned about?
in2013 the Groups statutory audit work was put out to tender Inconducting this evaluation we also invite comment from the and the Committee played a pivotal role in the tender process.
executive team and from our external Group statutory auditors.
Throughout the process, the mindset was one of seeking value Over the years, we have found that, in continuously evolving the from change.
Further details can be found on page160.
way in which the Committee assesses its effectiveness, we have been able to sharpen the Committees approach to As the Groups business has grown and its product portfolio discharging its role and responsibilities.
has expanded, the Committee has continued to set aside time to ensure that members remain satisfied that they understand As part of the multi-year Board succession plan, the Committee the core business activities and processes.
We have sought composition continues to evolve.
Naguib Kheraj joined the and received assurance that the Groups internal controls are Committee on 1 January 2014 and brings with him extensive appropriate, robust and effective.
This has been achieved by international banking, finance and business leadership several means, including holding a number of deep dives experience to the Committee.
Naguib will become Committee intoparticular areas.
These provide an open and transparent Chairman with effect from 1 May 2014.
In addition, Christine environment in which the Committee can ask questions and Hodgson and Lars Thunell will also join the Committee in 2014. improve its understanding of the Groups products, any Margaret Ewing stepped down from the Committee on associated potential risks and issues, and how these are 31January 2014.
I would like to thank Margaret for her valuable addressed through the Groups control systems.
Further contribution to the Committee.
detailsof the topics covered are set out on page 161.
This is my last report as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Our report sets out the nature of the significant issues relating to Itake this opportunity to recognise the immense support that the financial statements considered by the Committee over the Ihave received from my colleagues onthe Committee, both course of the year, and how the Committee reached a position past and present, in discharging its remit in the interest of the that it was satisfied that the disclosures of the Group meet the Group and its shareholders.
I am delighted that Naguib will be test of the fair, balanced and understandable statement made taking over as Committee Chairman.
With his lengthy business by the Board.
It also sets out how the Committee has satisfied experience in banking and more widely, he will be of immense itself that a high-quality audit has been conducted by the Group value to the Committee.
statutory auditors and that the scope of the audit has been I can confirm that the information that the Committee has appropriate.
Finally, with regard to internal audit, the report received has been balanced, appropriate and timely and has summarises the Committees role in reviewing the internal audit enabled the Committee to full its remit.
plan, how the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal audit and how we have reacted to or followed up on the findings raised by the internal audit.
Rudy Markham Chairman of the Audit Committee Corporate governance 157 1 2 3 4 Audit Committee Members During 2013 Scheduled meetings: 7 R H P Markham Chairman 1 7 7 R Delbridge 2 3 3 J F T Dundas 3 7 7 5 6 M Ewing 4 6 7 R Markland 5 7 7 J G H Paynter 6 4 7 Stepped down on 1 May 2013 Stepped down on 31 January 2014 Note: There were no ad hoc Committee meetings in 2013 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive Officer: Group Finance Director: Group Chief Risk Officer: Group Head Internal Audit: Director, Compliance, People and Communication: Group Head Legal and Compliance: Group As part of, and in addition to, each formal Committee meeting, the Company Secretary: Group statutory auditors.
Committee has private members-only meetings.
Role and responsibilities Interaction with management The Committees role is to review, on behalf of the Board, the On a regular basis, the Committee meets individually with our Groups internal financial controls, to identify, assess, manage Group statutory auditor KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, the Group and monitor financial risks.
It is also responsible for the oversight Finance Director, Group Head of Internal Audit and Group Head of internal controls and for oversight and advice to the Board on of Compliance.
These meetings allow Committee members to matters relating to financial reporting.
In discharging its discuss freely matters relating to the auditors remit and issues responsibilities, the Committee acknowledges and embraces arising from the audit.
During the year the Committee also met its role of protecting the interests of shareholders.
privately on two occasions with Group Internal Audits senior management team.
The Group is committed to proving it leads the way in combating financial crime, while providing quality service for our Interaction with regulators clients.
In support of this objective the Group has established a Early in 2013, the Committee met with one of the Groups UK Financial Crime Risk Mitigation Programme FCRMP, a lead regulators, the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA.
comprehensive, multi-year, programme designed to review Thepurpose of the meeting was to enable the Committee to many aspects of the Groups existing approach to anti-money learn more about the new proposed regulatory architecture laundering and sanctions compliance and to enhance them as when the Financial Services Authority was abolished and its appropriate to meet this objective.
One key component of the responsibilities were split between two new agencies, the PRA FCRMP is the response to the 2012 settlements with the US and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
In addition, as part 4 authorities regarding historical sanctions compliance.
This of their overseas visits to our markets, Committee members component is referred to as the US Supervisory Remediation have met with local regulators.
The SRP comprises work streams designed to ensure compliance with the remediation requirements Financial reporting contained in all of the settlement agreements.
In 2013, oversight In recent years there has been an increased focus by the of this work was undertaken on behalf of the Board by the AuditCommittee on clarity of disclosure.
In discharging its Board Regulatory Compliance Oversight Committee, a special responsibilities, the Committee has been cognisant of the purpose Committee established at the beginning of 2013 to financial reporting response to business model risks and the oversee matters relating to the Groups compliance with its need to focus its attention accordingly.
During 2013, the 4 obligations under the settlements with the US authorities.
In Committee has also considered the financial control framework 2014, the Committee will have oversight on behalf of the Board within the Group.
of the FCRMP, including the SRP.
The Group financial reporting process for preparing the Committee membership consolidated Annual Report and Accounts 2013 is managed As mentioned previously, as part of the multi-year Board and controlled using documented accounting policies, and is succession plan, the Committee composition continues to derived from reporting schedules that agree to underlying evolve.
As part of the 2013 committee effectiveness review, the books and records for each country reporting unit.
Group Committees size and composition was considered.
It was felt Finance issues detailed instructions and guidance on reporting that both its size and composition are appropriate and that the requirements to all the reporting entities within the Group in Committee members possess the necessary accounting, advance of each reporting period end.
These are followed financial, legal, banking and investment knowledge skills upbyan extensive dialogue between Group Finance and needed.
Naguib Kheraj joined the Committee on 1 January thereporting units on any new requirements, to clarify 2014.
Naguib will become Committee Chairman with effect understanding and ensure consistency in reporting.
In addition, Christine Hodgson and Lars ofthe processing and related control activities are carried out Thunell will also join the Committee in 2014.
Christine will bring inthe Groups three main processing hubs and this helps strong business leadership, accounting, finance and technology driveefficiencies and consistency in the control environment.
Lars has a highly developed The interaction between country reporting teams and the understanding of banking and risk management in a financial centralised hubs is subject to a rigorous process of evaluation.
The Board is satisfied that both Naguib and Where specialist skills or judgment are required, such as Christine have recent relevant financial experience and that all creditimpairment, financial instruments valuation, goodwill other Committee members have broad experience and assessment, evaluation of significant legal cases and pension knowledge of financial reporting and international businesses.
related calculations, centralised teams manage the activity and Details of their experience can be found in their biographies on work with the relevant country teams.
The submission of pages 138 to 142.
All of the Committees members are financial information from each reporting entity to Group independent.
Finance is subject to certification by the responsible in-country financial officer, and analytical review procedures are carried out both in country and at the Group level.
The Committee receives reports from Group Finance on changes in accounting standards and disclosure requirements, 4 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the and on significant accounting issues at each reporting period.
Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Office DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED 158 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued In addition, the Committee also receives detailed reports from standards.
The Committee also continued to gain comfort specialist functions such as Group Risk, Valuation Control, from the fact that the CB loan book is predominantly secured Group Legal and Tax.
Finance, in common with other functions, and the loan-to-value ratio LTV on the Mortgage book is covered by the Internal Audit process and the Committee remains low at 47.5 per cent receives these reports.
It also receives reports and updates The Committee has discussed impairment with the from KPMG.
This year, KPMG has focused particularly on management and the auditors and considers the provisions credit, goodwill and valuations.
The Committee is therefore held within both the WB and CB businesses to be appropriate.
made aware of all material relevant issues that have concerned management during the year.
Goodwill impairment testing For the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts the Committee paid The total goodwill carried on the balance sheet as at particular attention to the following issues: 31December 2013 is $5,207 million and, based on the review offorecasts and assumptions by senior management, the Impairment of loans and advances Committee considers that the headroom available is sufficient The net charge to the profit and loss account in respect of tosupport the carrying value.
This view is also supported by the impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit independent perspective of KPMG.
The Group undertakes its riskprovisions for the year ended 31 December 2013 is annual assessment of goodwill impairment as at 30 September $1,617million.
Through the year, the Committee requested each year and the Committee receives a detailed paper outlining andreceived information on specic names and industries the forecasts used for determining cash ows, the basis of the based on its assessment of the external environment, assumptions used including any change from previous years, developments in footprint markets and areas identied in head room availability and sensitivities of the forecast to discussions with the Board Risk Committee.
There is some reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
Additionally, for common membership across the Audit Committee and the each interim and year-end reporting date, an update is also Board Risk Committee and this ensures that, in addition to an provided to the Committee, in particular for Cash Generating assessment of current adequacy of provisions, the Committee Units CGU where the goodwill held is either material or more is also afforded a forward-looking view on potential risks and prone to pressure in a stress scenario.
During the past few their impact.
The Committee also receives reports from the yearsand in 2013, the Committee focused in particular on the management at each reporting period, detailing, inter alia, the goodwill associated with the South Korean business given the composition of the loan book, provisioning levels and cover ratio deteriorating market environment as reected in the reduction by business and the judgment exercised around the individual inforecasts used to determine future cash ows as well as and portfolio impairment provisions.
In 2013, this covered the theenhanced sensitivity of these numbers to changes in the following key areas: discount rate.
As at 30 June 2013, management identied ashortfall between the value in use and the net assets of In the Wholesale Banking WB business, major individual theSouth Korean CGU and proposed an impairment of provisions were assessed for adequacy through a review of $1,000million in respect of the goodwill associated with it.
the assumptions underpinning possible recovery options TheCommittee reviewed the forecasts and the assumptions andrelated cash ows.
For certain significant exposures in used to derive them and agreed that the proposed impairment the performing book, the Committee was briefed on business charge was reasonable.
As in the previous year, the Annual plans, management assessment of the potential cash ows Report and Accounts includes a disclosure highlighting the fact and collateral available.
Trends in early alert accounts that it continues to be possible that certain scenarios to which seepage 73 were shared and the concentration of the South Korea CGU is more sensitive than other CGUs could exposures in certain sectors such as Commodities and Real be constructed where a combination of a material change in the Estate and geographies such as the UAE and India were discount rate, coupled with a reduction in current business plan analysed in further detail.
This enhanced the Committees forecasts or the GDP growth rate, would potentially result in the understanding of the shape of the book including the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeding the recoverable underlying customer and maturity proles.
Additionally, amount in the future.
Based on discussions with management, giventhe slowdown in the economy, an analysis of the middle the Committee agreed that the disclosure continues to be market exposures in India was reviewed for adequacy of relevant given the continuing uncertainty in the South Korean provisions and an understanding of managements plans banking environment.
including potential exits where relevant In the Consumer Banking CB business, where provisions Valuation of financial instruments are assessed more on a collective basis other than for The judgments in relation to valuation of financial instruments is Mortgages, an analysis by products and geographies was more subjective in respect of Level 3 assets, where the value is provided with related delinquency trends.
In respect of Korea, based on models that use a significant degree of non-market the charge driven by the Personal Debt Restructuring based inputs.
For the Group, the quantum of such assets is very Scheme PDRS was analysed in respect of the unsecured low: of the $191 billion financial assets held at fair value as at book with an understanding of the characteristics of products December 2013, only $4.5 billion, or 2.3 per cent, were Level 3. offered, the industry experience and management response The Committee receives reports at each reporting period, on mitigating actions through more stringent underwriting detailing the valuation process which is undertaken by a unit Corporate governance 159 independent of the business and the amounts reserved to Group finance transformation programme caterfor model and projection risks which cover both Level 2 The Committee has continued with its oversight of a and Level 3 assets.
Additionally, through brieng sessions with transformation programme within the finance function designed to Valuation Control, the Committee has satisfied itself that liquidity consider the evolution, shape, resourcing and competence of the related implications on valuation of Level 1 and Level 2 assets in function together with the Groups data infrastructure and control particular have also been appropriately addressed.
This transformation programme was established as theCommittee was also briefed on the valuation and disclosure a result of the increasing requirements from regulators across our changes arising from the implementation of International markets and more complex and growing demands from the Financial Reporting Standards 13 which deals with the fair business.
We have discussed the programmes structure as it valueof financial assets and liabilities.
moves through its various stages of delivery, the expected outcomes, programme governance and the risks and issues Further information on level assets can be found in note 15 to the identied together with solutions to address these.
Oversight of internal controls Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee has considered reports in respect of the control The Committee has reviewed and monitored the environment in our markets.
appropriateness and completeness of the published financial statements and circulars to shareholders of the Company and The Committee discussed control environment issues, their any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial root causes and managements responses and remediation performance, including significant financial reporting judgments activities.
At each Committee meeting, information is provided and estimates made by the Group.
On behalf of the Board, the in Audit and Compliance risk issues maps which the Committee Committee has considered, and has satisfied itself, that the has reviewed and where deemed appropriate challenged.
processes and procedures in place ensure that the Annual These maps have continued to evolve so as to provide greater Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and differentiation regarding the materiality of particular issues.
understandable and provides the information necessary for In 2013, our Group Internal Audit function conducted 225 Group shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Risk-based audits compared to 205 in 2012 and 175 in 2011, model and strategy.
11 4.9 per cent of which were graded Fail compared with This statement is underpinned by the Committees and the 8 3.9per cent in 2012 and 10 5.7 per cent in 2011.
A Fail Boards belief that the Annual Report and Accounts does not graded audit is dened as where the GIA has determined that the exhibit any bias and that all important elements have been controls in the area under review are operating at an unacceptable disclosed and that the descriptions of our business as set out in level from the perspective of the Groups standards.
the strategic report are consistent with those used for financial Issues that are deemed to be of Group signicance and, reporting in the Financial statements.
inGroup Internal Audits view, in need of additional scrutiny, are Key judgments and the significant issues reported are consistent escalated tothe Committee.
At each meeting, the Committee with the disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical reviews managements response to Group Internal Audits judgments set out in the financial statements on pages 236 to 244. findings and recommendations and tracks the progress of As in previous years, we have maintained our discursive style remediation programmes.
Senior executives and management inreporting, with the intention of continuing to enhance from acrossthe Group have been invited to Committee engagement with stakeholders.
meetings todiscuss developments and issues which have arisen in their regions.
The Committees review of the audit When it has been necessary to use specialist terms, these have been dened for clarity and consistency in the Glossary on results has not indicated any concerning trends, significant pages332 to 335. concentrations of Fail audit grades or areas where management is not taking necessary action.
Tax The Committee has received updates concerning international As part of its oversight of internal controls, the Committee tax developments and specic UK tax-related matters including hasbeen particularly vigilant of the need to meet increasing Her Majestys Revenue and Customs review of the Groups regulatory and compliance demands across a number of areas compliance with the UK Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks.
including Customer Due Diligence, sanctions and anti-money laundering requirements, and the work performed by Group Internal Audit has provided the Committee with insights into these areas.
Given these challenges, we have paid particular attention to theresourcing requirements of both Group Internal Audit and the Group Compliance functions, and we have sought and received assurance from management who have been invited to Committee meetings concerning the action that has been takento address these increasing standards.
160 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued Group Internal Audit and Group Compliance During the year, we approved the re-appointment, remuneration We have reviewed the resourcing and proposed work plans and engagement letter of KPMG as our Group statutory auditor.
forboth Group Internal Audit and the Group Compliance We conducted a review of the performance and effectiveness functions and aresatised that both the work plans and ofKPMG which included an assessment of their independence resources are appropriatein terms of proposed areas of focus and objectivity.
In conducting the review, the Committee was and the expertise and skill that exist within both functions given seeking to gain assurance that KPMG has conducted a the current regulatory environment.
comprehensive, appropriate and effective audit.
As in previous The Committee monitored and assessed the role and years, the review was performed jointly by Group Internal Audit effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function.
The and Group Finance by way of a structured questionnaire.
The Committee reviewed andapproved Group Internal Audits questionnaire was sent to Country Chief Financial Ofcers, Charter, reviewed and monitored progress against its annual members of our Finance Leadership Team, Country Chief audit plan and reviewed its monitoring of post audit actions.
Executive Ofcers and our Business Leadership Team covering TheCommittee considered the resourcing requirements of the all of our major markets.
The questionnaire considered KPMGs function, and the Committee met twice with the senior leaders value add to the Group, the level of engagement, their ability to of the Group Internal Audit function.
demonstrate an understanding of Standard Chartered and our risk environment and the demonstration of appreciation of the During 2013, the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors CIIA issues faced by Country Chief Executive Ofcers, Chief issued revised guidance for Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Ofcers and Business Heads together with their Financial Services Sector.
Ernst & Young were engaged to objectivity, independence and effectiveness.
Over the course of conduct a gap analysis of our Group Internal Audit function the year, the Committee has scrutinised the audit process and against the revisedguidance.
the quality and experience of the audit partners engaged in the The report highlighted that no major global financial services audit.
The 2013 Group Audit Plan considered by the Committee organisation currently complies with all the elements of the provided details of the number of years KPMG partners and CIIAguidance.
The report concluded that the impact, inuence senior team members have been involved in the Groups audit.
and involvement of our Group Internal Audit function within KPMGs lead audit partner for Standard Chartered has a Standard Chartered was strong.
For Group Internal Audit background in auditing banks and understands the markets in tofully satisfy the guidance and to meet its objective of upper which we operate.
quartile benchmark performance against peers, the gap analysis identied that greater focus needs to beplaced on Audit tender Group Internal Audits infrastructure for example, through In September 2012, the UK Finance Reporting Council FRC enhancements to the risk assessment and audit planning published its Guidance for AuditCommittees.
However, the report acknowledged that many of supportive of its aims to enhance disclosure and increase the infrastructure improvements were already in the process investor confidence in the audit process and integrity of financial ofbeing implemented.
During 2014, the Committee will monitor reporting.
Consistent with theaims of the FRCs guidance and Group Internal Audits progress against the agreed action plans.
because we believed that itwas the right thing to do, in 2013 theCommittee conducted atender for audit services.
As a result of our review the Committee is comfortable with theindependence of the Group Internal Audit function.
KPMG has been the Groups statutory auditor for over 25 years and has periodically and regularly rotated its lead partner in Group Statutory Auditor accordance with FRC recommendations.
In recent times this We have exercised oversight of the work undertaken by has been every five years.
When determining the timing of the theGroup statutory auditor, KPMG.
Throughout the year, tender, consideration was given to the remaining tenure of the Committee members have met with local audit partners in current lead audit partner, who was appointed on 7 May 2010 Botswana, Hong Kong, India and Singapore.
Such meetings and is due to rotate following the audit for the year ending enable Committee members to gain greater insight as to the 31 December 2014.
Should the decision be made to change challenges faced in the Groups markets from a statutory statutory auditors, the appointment of a new rm of auditors auditperspective.
would be effective from 1 January 2015, thereby allowing for a transition period leading up to that rotation.
Four rms were We have discussed with KPMG the business and financial risks shortlisted.
When developing the shortlist for the tender, we and have sought assurance that these risks have been properly took into account the need for each rm to have strengths and addressed in the audit strategy and plan that has been reviewed capabilities in global banking relevant to our business and the by the Committee.
We are satisfied that KPMG has allocated markets in which we operate and with technical specialists sufficient additional and experienced resources to address dedicated to our audit.
Two of the four shortlisted rms chose to heightened risks.
We have sought assurance and are participate in the tender.
Throughout the process the mindset comfortable that no undue pressure has been asserted on the was one of openness to changing our Group statutory auditors level of audit fees so as to ensure that there is no risk to audit if there was value in doing so.
Corporate governance 161 After a robust and thorough tender process and careful Linkages between the Committee and subsidiary evaluation of what both rms participating in the tender had boardaudit committees tooffer, the Board concluded on recommendation by the As has been the practice for a number of years, in 2013 Rudy Committee that KPMG was the best rm to serve the Group.
Markham hosted a call with the chairmen of our subsidiary audit This decision was based on KPMGs experience and coverage committees.
These calls provide the opportunity for Rudy to as an auditor of financial institutions across our markets and share what the Committee has been focusing on over the their evolutionary approach in continuing to adapt the audit to previous year together with the priorities for the forthcoming our changing operating environment while maintaining a year and the rationale for these.
There has also been a qualitative approach to provide confidence in our financial programme whereby the subsidiary audit chairmen are invited reporting.
We entered the tender process pre-disposed to to attend Audit Committee meetings.
Although we do not propose to change auditor, the principles dening the linkages between the Audit Committee tender was a valuable process as it generated positive change and the audit committees of subsidiary companies and the role in the audit approach.
of our subsidiary audit committees has been enhanced.
Non-audit services Speaking Up Policy In 2013, the Group spent $4.4 million in non-audit services The Committee reviewed the Groups Speaking Up Policy, provided by KPMG and $24.6 million in non-audit services with which allows our employees to raise, in confidence, any other audit rms.
concerns that they may have about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other areas.
The Committee Further details can be found in note 8 on page 253. considered whether there were any trends across our markets in terms of the type and nature of Speaking Up incidences The Committee reviewed and approved the Group policy on the together with the resolution and consequence to ensure that award of non-audit services to auditors the Policy.
The Policy any matters of concern were investigated appropriately and states that the Groups statutory auditor should not be regarded thataccountability was duly applied.
as the automatic or first audit rm of choice for non-audit services and consideration should always be given to the use Ongoing training and development ofother rms.
If the Groups statutory auditor is appointed to In conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, four half-day provide non-audit services, the primary consideration is to informal sessions to which all directors are invited have been ensure that the independence and objectivity of the audit rm held.
In 2013, these have covered assumptions in modelling, isnot or could not be perceived to be compromised by the unsecured lending in CB, Group Special Asset Management, appointment.
In addition, the non-audit services work to be operational and cyber risk, transfer pricing, reconciliation of undertaken must not have the potential to signicantly impact suspense accounts and resourcing in our compliance, audit, the operations of any financial reporting area of the Group and risk and finance functions.
Such sessions are held in addition there must not be any reputational issues arising from the work toother ongoing training and development activities in each to be undertaken.
The Policy clearly sets out the criteria for non-executive directors engagement or induction plan.
when the Committees prior written approval is required.
Further information on the Groups approach to non-audit services is Observations and actions taken following the 2012 captured in the Report of the directors on pages 213 to 222. and2013 Committee effectiveness reviews In keeping with the approach to Committee effectiveness Note 8 on page 253 describes the types of non-audit services provided by KPMG.
reviews adopted by other Board Committees, in 2013 the Committee conducted an internally facilitated effectiveness review.
This was facilitated by Corporate Secretariat and involved each Committee member providing their thoughts onthe Committees effectiveness rather than answers to a prescriptive set of questions.
The feedback was then formally discussed by the Committee.
An action plan has been formulated to address the observations and a summary ofthendings appear in the table on the following page.
162 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued Summary of the themes identied in the 2013 Committee effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken 2013 2012 Observations Actions taken to be taken Observations Actions taken There is possible scope Consideration will be Continue to provide assurance We have reected on the toexplore further givento holding informal, tothe Board that controls and hindsight judgments to opportunities for greater private sessions between compliance culture fully support comeinthe future, so that the interaction with senior the Committee and senior the Groups strategy Committee can be satisfied that management business teams management business the compliance culture is aligned outside of formal meetings teams along similar lines with regulatory expectation tothe private meetings currently held with the Group Internal Audits senior management team Consideration will continue As we transition to the While it was felt that the The Committees expectations to be given to the need to newCommittee Chair, we Committee sets clear for the Group Internal Audit maintain enough time on will take the opportunity expectations and appropriate function have been more explicitly Committee agendas for toreview rolling agendas challenges for the Group Internal articulated in Group Internal broad perspective and information ows to Audit function, it was agreed that Audits charter discussions theCommittee these could be enhanced There was possible scope for The nature of the information Committee papers to be more provided to the Committee concise, while balancing this hasevolved in 2013.
Following withthe need to ensure that feedback from the Committee, theCommittee receives all the both the Group Internal Audit information necessary to full its function and Compliance reports duties effectively provided to the Committee have been signicantly modied Corporate governance 163 Board Risk Committee Dear Shareholder As part of the multi-year Board succession plan, the Committeecomposition continues to evolve.
Since our The Board Risk Committee maintains enterprise-wide lastreport, Om Bhatt and Naguib Kheraj have joined the oversight of all risk types.
It has primary oversight Committee.
Om brings with him extensive banking, financial accountability for credit, capital, market, liquidity, services and leadership acumen with deep knowledge and operational, country cross-border and pension risk.
experience across India, one of our largest markets.
Naguib The Committee is interested in whether the risk and the brings extensive international banking, finance and business underlying activity are in line with the Group strategy, leadership experience to the Committee.
Lars Thunell joined the and its values and behaviours.
The Group will not Committee in 2013 and his membership has brought significant compromise its risk appetite position in pursuit banking and risk management experience to the Committee.
I will be stepping down from the Board in 2014 following A critical foundation of the Board Risk Committees activities 10years service.
In anticipation of this, the Chairmanship isthe work that it undertakes in overseeing that the Group oftheCommittee will be taken up by Lars with effect from remains within the Board-approved risk appetite.
I have enjoyed the weighty task of chairing the Risk Appetite Statement as a risk-based expression of the Committee since itsinception in March 2010.
At the strategic level, risk in any business, but pleasedto be handing over to Lars, who is highly qualied most especially in a banks business, is clearly owned by the tolead itgoing forward.
The Board Risk Committees role is to advise and help, diving deeply into issues of risk so that the Board is well placed I can confirm that the information that the Committee has to perform its role as the ultimate owner of risk appetite.
The received has been balanced, appropriate and timely, and has Committee scrutinises managements proposals regarding the enabled the Committee to full its remit.
Risk Appetite Statement, and advises the Board accordingly.
We maintain a rolling assessment of the independence of the Group Risk function, and its ability to operate effectively, in conjunction with the businesses, while being able to challenge the businesses as and when needed in pursuit of effective risk management.
We believe that the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system is critically dependent on the Jamie Dundas management resources that operate it.
This has been kept Chairman of the Board Risk Committee under review in 2013 through several mechanisms, including formal discussion of the quality, independence and depth of the risk function and numerous interactions between Committee members and risk personnel at all levels.
Over the course of the year, Committee members have met with members of the Groups risk teams in Bahrain, Botswana, Ghana, Hong Kong, and Singapore.
For the Board Risk Committee to be truly effective it needs to be forward looking.
Over the last three years since the Committee was established, we have explored with both management and the risk function how best this can be achieved so that the Committee has enough time for horizon scanning.
significant consideration has been given to what information needs to be provided to the Committee on the current risk position and how this is changing, the likelihood of it continuing to change and the reasons why.
The Committee has requested and received not just point-in-time data, but increasingly, highlights of data trends and changes in portfolios.
The provision of such information has enabled the Committee to understand the underlying factors that are causing the changes.
For example, the Committee requested and received the results of an assessment of the impact of a prolonged downturn in commodity prices on commodity miners and producers in the metals and energy sectors within the Wholesale Banking WB portfolio and whether this could lead to undesirable portfolio concentrations.
164 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 1 2 345 Board Risk Committee Members Scheduled Ad hoc During 2013 meetings: 6 meetings: 1 J F T Dundas Chairman 1 6 6 1 1 O P Bhatt 2 4 4 1 1 68 7 9 R Delbridge 3 2 2 0 0 S J Lowth 4 5 6 1 1 R H P Markham 5 5 6 1 1 R Markland 6 6 6 1 1 P D Skinner 7 6 6 1 1 O H J Stocken 8 4 6 1 1 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Dr L H Thunell 9 6 6 0 1 Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive officer: Group Finance Director: Group Chief Risk officer: Group Head Internal Audit: Group Company Secretary: Group Treasurer: Appointed on 1 May 2013 Stepped down on 1 May 2013 Group statutory auditors Role and responsibilities Committee membership The Committee is a primary committee.
Its role is to exercise We believe that it is essential for the Committee to have both oversight on behalf of the Board of enterprise-wide risk and representation from members with deep and broad banking torecommend to the Board where the risk appetite should and risk experience, and members with risk perspectives beset.
While the Committee has the primary oversight role for fromother industries and professions.
The Committees enterprise-wide risk, it does not take the primary oversight role effectiveness is also supported by overlapping membership for all types of risk.
In such instances the Committee interacts and close links with the other main board committees, closely with the other board committees where the remits whichensure that risk-related perspectives from the Audit, ofthose committees clearly cover risk-related issues.
For Remuneration or Brand and Values Committees are able to be example, the Brand and Values Committee has oversight aired at the Risk Committee.
As part of our multi-year Board ofthemechanisms by which reputational risk is managed, succession plan, the Committees membership has changed theRemuneration Committee withregard to risks relating in2013 with Richard Delbridge stepping down from and Lars toremuneration and the Audit Committee with regard to the Thunell and Om Bhatt joining the Committee.
In addition, Groups internal financial controls.
Such interaction ensures Naguib Kheraj joined the Committee with effect from 1 January thatthe Committee is both well informed as to the discussions 2014.
Lars has a highly developed understanding of banking held and the common membership across our board and risk management in a financial services context.
Om has committees, and the close collaboration of the Committee extensive banking, financial services and leadership acumen Chairs helps to ensure there areno gaps and to minimise with deep knowledge and experience across India, one of our unnecessary duplication.
Naguib brings extensive international banking, finance and business leadership experience to the Committee.
In discharging its responsibilities the Committee monitors risk positions and seeks assurance on behalf of the Board around Interaction with management the Groups Risk Management Framework which assigns On a regular basis, the Committee meets individually with the accountability and responsibility for the management and Group Chief Risk officer and Group Head of Internal Audit.
It is through this Framework that the Group These meetings allow Committee members to discuss freely manages enterprise-wide risk with the objective of maximising any matters relating to issues arising from the Committees risk-adjusted returns while remaining within the Groups risk formal discussions.
It is therefore vital that the Board Risk Committee understands, can evaluate and is assured as to the quality Risk information provided to the Committee andcompleteness of this Framework.
The Committee receives regular reports on risk management, The Committee has also satisfied itself that the Group including portfolio trends, policies and standards, stress testing, remainswithin its risk appetite, with a strong capital and liquidity liquidity and capital adequacy and is authorised to investigate or position that can be shown to be resilient to stress.
Risks to seek any information relating to any activity within its terms of future earnings are demonstrated to be held well within carefully reference.
In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee dened levels of tolerance.
In carrying out its responsibilities, the continues to be vigilant against being overwhelmed with Committee is closely supported by the Group Chief Risk officer, information, while ensuring that it is provided with all the key Group Finance Director, Group Head of Internal Audit and data necessary to full its terms of reference.
Group Treasurer, together with other business functions on Over the course of the year, the Committee has been cognisant risks within their respective areas of responsibility.
of the need to continue to ensure that the right balance is being struck between strategic forward-looking oversight of the Groups risks and deeper dives into significant issues, regulatory driven responsibilities and horizon scanning.
This has been achieved through careful consideration of the nature and type ofinformation to be provided to the Committee, together with agenda setting and the use of informal sessions which not only enable in-depth discussion into selected topics but also free up formal agenda time for horizon scanning discussion.
A report from the Group Chief Risk officer is presented at every scheduled meeting.
These reports cover the macroeconomic and geo-political outlook and ongoing risks such as the challenges in the eurozone and the China slowdown.
In addition to the reports from the Group Chief Risk officer, the Committee also receives reports at every scheduled meeting from the Group Treasurer which cover market developments, liquidity, capital, recovery and resolution planning and rating agency and international regulatory updates.
Such information enables the Committee to discuss with management the major risks faced by the Group across the businesses and geographies.
Corporate governance 165 Over the course of the year, in addition to receiving regular Capital and liquidity updates from the Group Chief Risk officer and Group Treasurer, At every scheduled meeting the Committee considers and the approach taken with regard to agenda setting has enabled discusses the Groups capital and liquidity position and the the Committee to dedicate time for deeper discussion on a regulatory environment and expectations.
In addition to variety of relevant topics including deeper dives into: receiving regular liquidity updates, we have reviewed the liquidity risk stress-test approach and the liquidity risk appetite.
WB credit risk With regard to capital, the Committee has reviewed and Consumer Banking CB credit risk discussed in detail the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment in order to satisfy itself that the Groups Private Banking operational risk approachto capital planning is comprehensive, rigorous Market risk andconsistentwith both the current regulatory requirements and with developments under Basel III or other likely Geography Risk Appetite Assessments for Singapore, .
Taiwan, Hong Kong and China Further details concerning capital can be found on pages 128 As part of the overseas Board meeting held in HongKong in to 135 and liquidity can be found on pages 115 to 122 of the November 2013, the Committee took the opportunity to hold Riskreview.
afocused discussion with local management concerning the shape of Chinas banking landscape, the Groups strategy Stress testing towards and exposure to Chinese banks and how this Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess the exposureis monitored and controlled and potential local financial and management capability of the Group to continue regulatory trends.
to operate effectively under extreme but plausible trading conditions.
The Committee has maintained oversight of the When travelling to our markets, Committee members have met Groups overall stress-testing programme, reviewing the with members of the Groups risk function and business risk design, key assumptions and the outcomes of principal tests.
heads in Bahrain, Hong Kong, India, Ghana, Singapore, Taiwan Key tests at Group level such as the regular stress testing and Botswana.
ofoverall compliance with risk appetite, for capital adequacy The Committee also received an update in relation to the ormandatory Reverse Stress Tests, are individually Groups Operational Risk Transformation Programme discussedbythe Committee.
Where it has been necessary, designedto enable the Group to identify any processes which theCommittee has requested that additional or more severe are operating outside of acceptable parameters in a timely tests be carried out.
fashion and to rectify any causes for deviation well in advance of Further details concerning stress testing can be found on any material problem developing and was provided with an page71of the Risk review.
overview of the proposed implementation of an operational risk framework.
The framework will bring rigour in the identication Regulatory considerations of risk in processes which are capable of producing The Committee receives regulatory updates in relation to unsatisfactory operational risk outcomes that are material capital, liquidity and the structure of the Group including the to the Group.
Capital Requirements Directive IV CRDIV covering material More details concerning the Groups approach to operational risk holdings requirements, additional capital buffer proposals and can be found on pages 123 and 124 of the Risk review.
the Basel III implementation timetable, regulatory developments relating to capital models and regulatory developments across Risk Appetite the Groups markets.
In addition, throughout the year, there Every year the Committee pays careful attention to the hasbeen constructive interaction on various occasions formulation of the Groups Risk Appetite Statement, in order to between the Committee and the PRA on risk matters.
assure itself that it is effective in setting appropriate boundaries in respect of all main risk types.
The Group will not compromise its risk appetite position in pursuit of growth and on behalf of the Board the Committee reviews a range of focused risk appetite assessments and stress tests which consider alignment with the Groups Risk Appetite Statement.
There are a wider range of risk metrics that the Committee also regularly tracks and which are reported to the Board periodically.
All directors receive a summary of the risk information report for each Board meeting and minutes of the Committee meetings.
During 2013, we have increased formal periodic risk reporting to the Board, especially around the Committees quarterly assessment against the Board-approved Risk Appetite Statement.
166 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued Risk management disclosures Observations and actions taken following the 2012 The Committee has reviewed the risk disclosures in the Annual and2013 Committee effectiveness reviews Report and Accounts and the Half Year Reports and has An internally facilitated effectiveness review was conducted in reviewed and approved the disclosure on the work of the 2013.
This was facilitated by Corporate Secretariat and involved Committee.
In addition, a sub-committee of the Committee and each Committee member providing their thoughts on the the Audit Committee reviewed the Basel II Pillar 3 annual Committees effectiveness rather than answers to a prescriptive disclosure.
While the Committee members believed that Ongoing training and development the Committee had been performing well and was effective, In conjunction with the Audit Committee, four half-day informal there were emerging themes to discuss.
An action plan has sessions to which all directors are invited have been held.
In been formulated to address the observations and a summary 2013, these covered assumptions in modelling: unsecured ofthe findings appear in the table below.
lending in CB, Group Special Asset Management, operational and cyber risk, transfer pricing, reconciliation of suspense accounts and resourcing in our compliance, audit, risk and finance functions.
Such sessions are held in addition to otherongoing training and development activities in each independent non-executive directors engagement or inductionplan.
Summary of the themes identied in the 2013 Committee effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken 2013 2012 Observations Actions taken to be taken Observations Actions taken There is scope for Committee So as to ensure that the Continue to ensure that the Opportunities for further papers to be more concise.
Committee is not distracted rightbalance is struck between renement of agendas and While balancing this with the from its focus or from strategic forward-looking papers have been identied need to ensure that the operating effectiveness, the oversight of the Groups risk andimplemented in 2013 Committee receives the work undertaken in 2013 will anddeeper dives into significant correct level of detail in order be built upon so as to further issues, regulatory-driven to effectively full its duties rene agendas and papers responsibilities and horizon scanning As we transition to the new Committee Chair, we will take the opportunity to review the rolling agendas and information ows to theCommittee The balance between the work Formal risk reporting to the undertaken by the Committee Board has been introduced regarding risk appetite and the around the Committees periodic Information provided and risk assessment against the Groups discussions at Board meetings Risk Appetite Statement could be enhanced Corporate governance 167 Brand and Values Committee Dear Shareholder The Committee believes it is critically important to demonstrate the Groups socio-economic contribution in the markets where The Brand and Values Committee has continued to we operate, to underpin our legitimacy.
A key highlight this year focuson its key priority areas, with in-depth reviews was the informal Committee session held during the Boards carried out into brand, reputational risk, culture and visit to Ghana, which provided insight into the Groups values and sustainability environmental issues.
In all socio-economic contribution in Ghana and gave examples of ourwork, we aim to ensure that the Committee adds how Here for good is operationalised locally.
We also continue value to the business.
to monitor the Groups progress in minimising environmental As a result of last years Committee effectiveness review, impacts arising from the Groups operations and seek wehave sought broader participation from senior leaders assurance that we are maintaining a leadership position in atCommittee meetings.
We also held a number of informal thisarea.
sessions covering reputational risk management, digital Again this year, the Committee has carried out an effectiveness mediaand sustainability issues, the latter in Ghana during review to identify improvements for the future.
We believe it is anoverseas Board visit.
fundamentally important to ensure that the Committee The Committee has reviewed the Groups reputational continues to add value and reduce risk across the business.
riskexposure at each meeting and held a reputational The Committee believes the Groups strong commitment to its riskworkshop, facilitated by an external reputational risk culture and values, reected in a strong brand, is an important consultancy, which provided the Committee with examples differentiator which underpins business performance.
ofbest practice and emerging thinking in this important eld.
Asa result, the Group is aiming to be more forward looking inidentifying reputational risks, using advanced horizon scanning techniques.
Regarding brand, the Committee now has better sight of the detailed brand dynamics which inform investment decisions.
The range of brand metrics presented to the Committee has Paul Skinner advanced signicantly this year, providing the Committee a Chairman of the Brand and Values Committee better understanding of the progress being made.
The Committee discussed the findings of an external brand audit, conducted by a leading brand consultancy, to assess the health of the brand globally.
This audit has resulted in an action plan focusing on four key brand themes.
The oversight of brand management and development will remain a key priority for 2014, as these themes are taken forward to further maximise brand potential.
The Committee is committed to ensuring that our culture is protected and that we continue to demonstrate our Here for good brand promise.
Conduct has become an increasingly prevalent theme externally and there has been sustained effort on raising its prole across the Group.
It was encouraging to seethe progress made on embedding the Groups Code of Conduct which was re-launched during the year, alongside theFair Accountability Principles.
Building on these strong foundations, we believe that a continued focus on conduct willbe essential in the future.
168 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 1 2 34 Brand and Values Committee Members During 2013 Scheduled meetings: 5 P D Skinner Chairman 1 5 5 J F T Dundas 2 4 5 V F Gooding 3 0 1 5 6 Dr Han Seung-soo 4 5 5 Dr L H Thunell 5 3 4 J W Peace 6 1 1 Stood down from the Committee on 1 May 2013 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Joined the Committee on 1 May 2013 Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Director, Compliance, People and Stood down from the Committee on 1 May 2013 becoming a permanent invitee Communication: Group Company Secretary: Group Head Corporate Note: There were no ad hoc Committee meetings in 2013 Affairs: Special Adviser to the Directorate Role and responsibilities Brand The Committees remit includes oversight of the positioning of In 2013, the Committee was provided with a deeper level of data the Groups brand, reputational risk, government and regulatory regarding the development of the brand.
The Committee has relationships, environmental and sustainability issues and focused its attention on a consumer-focused marketing importantly our conduct, culture and values.
It also includes modelthat describes the customer experience from when a clientand customer-focused strategies including Treating prospective customer first becomes aware of the brand to his Customers Fairly.
orher decision to purchase a product or service.
This has helped the Committee analyse the linkages between brand Reputational risk consideration, usage and sales revenue.
The Committee The Committee oversees the processes by which the Group continues to review the Groups markets using a three-stage identies and manages reputational risk in an effective and approach to brand development building brand awareness, transparent manner, consistent with the Board-approved Risk differentiating and deepening knowledge of the brand and Appetite Statement.
As a result, we are now able totrack business outcome metrics such as revenue per active The Committee has carried out an in-depth review into the customer against key brand metrics with the intention of Groups approach to reputational risk and how this is managed gaining clearer insights on the return on brand investment.
across the Group, and is satisfied that the processes are robust.
Ahead of this review, a reputational risk workshop, facilitated by During the year, the Committee was provided with an in-depth an external reputational risk consultancy, was held to review review of the Groups brand position and development in and discuss emerging thinking and best practice in reputational Singapore, which provided context on the internal and external risk management.
The Groups approach and processes were pressures affecting the brands development.
The Committee compared to examples of best practice and as a result, a has also been provided with a detailed overview of the brand number of high level actions were identied for implementation.
governance structure in place and assurance that brand assets For example, it has been recognised that there is a need to build are being managed consistently across the Group.
better intelligence on emerging risks, including the use of The Group commissioned a leading brand consultancy to horizon scanning techniques, and to gain a greater conduct a brand audit with the purpose of assessing the health understanding of how the Groups stakeholders work together of the Standard Chartered brand across nine key markets in on risk issues.
Consumer Banking CB and across Wholesale Banking WB At each meeting, the Committee is provided with an update globally.
The results of the audit were reviewed by the onthe material reputational risks facing the Group from the Committee in September 2013.
While the focus on brand was perspectives of internal and external stakeholders.
Given the well understood within WB, there was a need to increase the uid nature of reputational risk, the Committee has sought relevance of the Groups Here for good brand promise in CB.
andreceived assurance on employees awareness of their Inaddition, the audit highlighted some inconsistencies in how responsibility.
While all staff are responsible for day-to-day brand assets are being deployed and implemented across the identication and escalation of reputational risk through existing markets where the Group operates.
As a result of the brand Group approaches, including the Speaking Up procedures, audit findings, four key priorities for the future development of theGroup Code of Conduct the Code and mandatory the brand were identied: brand governance, brand relevance, e-learning, accountability remains with the owners of each brand experience and brand measurement.
individual risk type for the reputational consequences of issuesrelating to their aspect of risk for example the Group Treasurer owns Capital Risk.
By following such procedures, staff will ensure they act in a manner that does not give rise to reputational risk and is consistent with our Here for good brandpromise.
Corporate governance 169 In July 2013, a two-year extension to the Groups main To provide the Committee with deeper context on the work sponsorship agreement with Liverpool Football Club LFC being undertaken within the Group to reinforce our culture wasagreed.
The partnership with LFC will run until the end of andvalues, we received a detailed progress report covering the 2015 2016 season.
We believe it is vital to maximise our what has been accomplished in one of the Groups business LFCsponsorship and to use this to drive brand awareness in segments within WB, Financial Markets.
The Committee markets where LFC and football has wide appeal.
For example, acknowledged the fact that, given the specialist skills required when the LFC team carried out a three-country tour to Asia within this area, there could be a tendency to have a less diverse Indonesia, Australia and Thailand, over 225,000 fans attended cross-section of employees in place.
However, assurance was the three games.
We continue to see the benets of this provided that as new recruits join WB and specically Financial important sponsorship through increased brand awareness Markets, it is imperative that they understand the behaviours data.
The Groups brand tracker data suggest that of those expected of them, and the Committee received an update on aware of the LFC sponsorship, 54 per cent would consider the cultural t assessment that was carried out during the purchasing Standard Chartered products and services, an interview process.
The Committee was encouraged to hear increase from 44 per cent pre-sponsorship.
about the various initiatives underway, including a Financial Markets-wide cultural programme, intended to further raise The Committee continues to evaluate the progress being awareness and to reinforce the right behaviours.
madein digital media and regularly reviews how various media channels are being utilised to develop the brand.
In order to The Chairmans Here for good Awards is a programme deepen the Committees knowledge of this, an informal whichwas launched in 2012.
It is designed to enable Group Committee session was held, providing an overview and employees to recognise the team and individual who best demonstration of digital media.
The Committee will continue represents Here for good.
This programme plays a role in tofocus on the use of digital media in 2014. deepening the high level of internal engagement across the Group.
To demonstrate the impact of these Awards, in 2013 Culture and values nearly 700 entries from 44 countries were received with over The Committee considers it fundamentally important that the 80,000 votes from employees, an increase of 5 per cent from Group promotes an open, inclusive and collaborative working 2012.
The Committee is keen to ensure that the powerful environment and that its culture is reinforced by ensuring that connection to Here for good is maximised.
the Groups values and Here for good brand promise infuse Towards the end of the year, the Committee reviewed the way actions and decisions made.
In seeking assurance that this is in inwhich the Groups culture is evolving and how the Code has place, the Committee received an update on the progress being been embedded since its re-launch in 2013, with a view to made across the Group in regard to diversity and inclusion.
We ensuring that theunderlying requirements of the Code are well were pleased to see the continued progress being made on understood.
The Committee was pleased to note the work developing a pipeline for gender diversity at senior management underway in improving the internal understanding of standards level, noting the importance of stronger inclusion and greater of behaviour required known internally as raising the bar on opportunities to allow women to achieve their potential.
The conduct supporting the view that it is imperative for the Group Committee supports the view that sustained focus on to set and manage itself to high standards in this regard.
The advancing this priority should continue.
The Committee also Committee rmly believes that tone from the top is critical to welcomed the progress made in raising awareness of inclusion ensure that employees behave in the manner required by the and disability issues through training activities on topics such as Code and thatsenior management should visibly role model unconscious bias and disability listening groups to better this.
The Committee noted the strong role senior management understand the needs of employees with disabilities.
Another played in the launch, along with those in middle management key area of focus is exible and agile working, and how this is todeliver the key Code messages.
Following the re-launch of supported throughout the Group and embedded into working the Code, itwas encouraging to see that, by the end of 2013, practices.
The importance of senior management advocating 98percent of employees had completed mandatory e-learning and role modelling such working practices is recognised and and 97percent had reconrmed their commitment to the Code.
the launch of our Flexible Charter supports this.
These results, together with the consistently high reference toand usage of the Groups intranet support materials, demonstrate our peoples commitment to the strengthening of the Groups compliance culture.
The Committee will be seeking assurance that this momentum will continue into 2014.
170 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued Sustainability environment Client customer focus and treating customers fairly In 2013, the Committee decided to review the progress being The Committee retained oversight of the delivery of the Groups made in sustainability through two of the Groups three core client customer focused strategy in WB and CB against the priorities: Contributing to sustainable economic growth and Here for good brand promise.
An in-depth analysis into the Being a responsible company.
market in India provided a practical illustration of how the strategy is progressing in the CB business.
WB continues to The Committees review of Contributing to sustainable focus on deepening client relationships and being positioned economic growth recognised the progress being made, asa trusted adviser, an approach endorsed by the Committee.
thechallenges ahead, and the strength of the Groups sustainability story.
During the Boards visit to Ghana in June Treating Customers Fairly is a key Financial Conduct Authority 2013, an informal sustainability session was held for Committee principle for the management of customer relationships.
In members and other independent non-executive directors to 2013, the Committee conducted two reviews into Treating provide context on the issues challenges in place in Ghana Customers Fairly, with a specic focus on the progress being andhow Here for good is demonstrated locally.
made in India and a review of the measures and initiatives in place to minimise mis-selling risks.
In December 2013, the Committee received an update on Being a responsible company.
This included an in-depth Government and regulatory relationships analysis into the Groups environmental performance during The Committee has continued to oversee the Groups approach theyear, with a focus on how the Group is minimising its to its main government and regulatory relationships in major environmental impact across its footprint.
The Committee markets, which is an ever-increasing priority in a complex wasassured that the Group is using resources with increased regulatory landscape.
An in-depth analysis into the government efficiency.
For example, since 2008 the rate at which energy is and regulatory relationships in China was conducted, which consumed in large properties has reduced by 14 per cent, allowed the Committee to gain a fuller appreciation of the equivalent to a utility cost saving of almost $10 million.
Over government and regulatory context in this market.
thesame period, the rate by which the Group consumes water has been reduced by 40 per cent.
Furthermore, despite the Committee membership substantial growth of the Groups business, total carbon The qualications and expertise of the Committee members emissions have reduced by 11 per cent since 2009.
The reect the requirements as set out in the Committees terms Committee was pleased to note that 26,000 of the Groups ofreference.
Paul Skinner has extensive experience of suppliers in 48 countries were made aware of the Supplier branded, customer-facing businesses on a global scale, Codeof Conduct, which sets out the Groups expectations of sustainability environmental issues arising in the natural suppliers through 10 principles covering ethics, human rights, resources industry and of government relationships.
Jamie labour, environment, and health and safety.
Dundas was previously chairman of the Sustainability and The Committee will receive an update on the Investing in Responsibility Committee and has extensive international communities priority in mid-2014.
Dr Han, a former Prime Minister of the Republic ofKorea, has deep experience of geo-political issues, The Committee continues to review community investment multilateral agencies and sustainable environmental policies expenditure against set criteria and budgets and received a and is currently UN Secretary-Generals Special Envoy for detailed progress report on Seeing is Believing, the Groups Disaster Risk Reduction and Water, and on the UN global campaign to tackle avoidable blindness, which reached Secretary-Generals Advisory Board on Water and Sanitation.
Lars Thunell, who joined the Committee on 1 May 2013, In 2013, the Group was included in the 2013 Dow Jones hasawealth of financial services and banking experience, Sustainability World Index for the fourth time.
The Group is also sustainability issues and a detailed understanding of emerging listed on the FTSE350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index and markets gained as chief executive officer and executive continues to be listed on the FTSE4Good and is a member of vice-president of the International Finance Corporation, the Carbon Disclosure Project.
These external recognitions amember of the World Bank Group.
On 1 February 2014 provide important endorsement of the Groups approach.
Christine Hodgson joined the Committee, bringing with her awealth of experience inthe area of sustainability.
Christine Further details can be found in the Groups 2013 Sustainability iscurrently chair of the Capgemini UK Sustainability Board.
TheCommittees effectiveness is enhanced through the existence of synergies inmembership.
For example, Paul isalsoa member of the Board Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Jamie is the Chairman of the BoardRisk Committee of which Lars is also a member.
Christine is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Corporate governance 171 Committee effectiveness review Proactive steps have been taken to consolidate the progress This year, the Committee has undertaken an internally facilitated the Committee has made over the last 12 months, and to effectiveness review with input from executive management.
Summary of the themes identied in the 2013 Committee effectiveness review and actions taken to be taken 2013 2012 Observations Actions taken to be taken Observations Actions taken The Committee could benefit At one of the overseas The Committee could provide A reputational risk workshop was from a relevant local topic Boardvisits during 2014, the aforum for a best practice held in August 2013, facilitated by focused session during Committee will meet local discussion on the Groups an external reputational risk overseas Board visits brand and value executives management of reputational risk advisory practice, to review reputational risk best practice The Committee should hold We will consider topics The Committee should probe During the Board visit to Ghana an unstructured discussion within the Committees remit how Here for good is reected in inJune 2013, a session was session with leading external that would benefit from decision making organised to discuss how Here practitioners on a topic within external debate, with a view for good is practised locally its mandate to arranging an unstructured discussion session The Committee should At one of the overseas The Committee should develop Brand metrics have further receive an update on how Boardvisits during 2014, its approach to reviewing brand developed over the year and significant subsidiary theCommittee will meet development thendings of the external boardsand directors are withthe local board of a brandaudit have been reviewed addressing areas within subsidiary company and discussed theCommittees terms of reference and agenda 172 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 1234 Governance Committee Members During 2013 Scheduled meetings: 3 J W Peace Chairman 1 3 3 R M P Markham 2 1 1 R Markland 3 2 2 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Group Company Secretary P A Sands 4 3 3 Stood down from the Committee on 1 July 2013 Joined the Committee when appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 July 2013 Note: There were no ad hoc Committee meetings in 2013 Role and responsibilities Corporate governance trends and emerging The Governance Committee is an enabling committee bestpractice responsible for the oversight of overall Board effectiveness The Committee has received updates on key developments andgovernance issues, monitoring corporate governance inthe corporate governance environment and trends faced developments and emerging best practice across our markets.
For example, the Committee has The Committee provides a dedicated forum to consider key considered the increasing trend to appoint more independent corporate governance issues and discuss the Boards non-executive directors on subsidiary boards and to set up effectiveness more broadly.
In 2013, the Committee decided more subsidiary board committees.
There continued to be that, given its membership, the opportunity existed for there to aconsiderable amount of corporate governance reports, be a more free-style approach to discussion topics so as to consultations and reviews published and the Committee allow more time for these broader debates and more time for hashad oversight of the approach that has been taken in reection and discussion, with less formal reporting.
The Committee continues to be supportive of the Groups approach to practising exemplary Committee membership standards of corporate governance, and to proactively The Committees membership comprises the Group Chairman, contribute to promoting an environment where such Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director.
Group Company Secretary also attends the meetings.
During the year, Rudy Markham stepped down as Senior Independent Reviewing the committees agenda Director and Ruth Markland was appointed.
The Committee is In order to ensure that the Committee remains an effective aunique enabling forum which facilitates the Group Chairman, forum for the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director to meet Senior Independent Director to consider key corporate and discuss key corporate governance issues.
governance matters, opportunities for enhancement of the Committees time and focus were identied during the course Material corporate governance matters of2013.
These included considering the Committees remit potentiallyaffecting the Group against those of other Board Committees so as to avoid During the year, the Committee received an in-depth review of potential duplication.
The primary purpose of this review was the key corporate governance recommendations and potential toenable greater discussion of corporate governance issues actions to be taken in response to the Barclays Salz Review, the during a time of increased regulatory change and ongoing Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards and CRDIV.
reection in regard to the Boards effectiveness.
2013 approach to Board effectiveness 2013 Committee effectiveness review As stated in our 2012 Annual Report and Accounts, all The Committee discussed its effectiveness at the end of 2013 thingsbeing equal, the intention in 2013 was to conduct and agreed that it had provided a valuable forum to discuss  Board and primary Committee corporate governance issues of signicance to the Group.
Given that seven new independent However, it would be important to ensure that adequate non-executive directors have joined our Board since November spacewas allocated in the Committees agenda to enable 2012, and five Board members will have stepped down from the keycorporate governance discussion and reection in regard Board by the end of May 2014, it was felt that there would be totheBoards effectiveness.
little merit in conducting an externally facilitated review in 2013.
Over the coming weeks we plan to invite external board effectiveness facilitators to tender for the 2014 review.
Furtherdetails on Board effectiveness can be found on pages149 to 151.
Corporate governance 173 1 23 Nomination Committee Members Scheduled Ad hoc During 2013 meetings: 2 meetings: 4 Sir John Peace Chairman 1 2 2 4 4 J F T Dundas 2 2 2 2 4 4 5 5 R H P Markham 3 2 2 4 4 R Markland 4 2 2 4 4 P D Skinner 5 2 2 4 4 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Group Chief Executive: Director, Compliance, People and Communication: Group Company Secretary The Committees composition and role theChairman and Group Chief Executive led the process to The Nomination Committee is an enabling committee identify potential candidates who would bring to the Board a consisting of the Chairman and the chairs of each of the other deep understanding of the US political landscape and whose board committees.
Details of the qualications of the members combined skills and experience would complement the Board of the Committee can be found in their biographies on pages as a whole.
Given Kurts public and private sector roles, 138 to 142.
Following their appointment as chairs of the Audit including his significant US governmental experience and deep Committee and Board Risk Committee in 2014, Naguib Kheraj knowledge and experience of some of our key markets, it was and Lars Thunell will be appointed as members of the agreed that it was not necessary to use an external search rm Committee in place of Rudy Markham and Jamie Dundas.
or advertise for his appointment.
However, as part of Kurts appointment process, Lygon Group conducted extensive The Committees remit is to review the structure, size and referencing on the Groups behalf.
composition oftheBoard, including the Boards succession planning requirements.
It also oversees the identication and During the year, the Committee also focused on executive assessment of potential Board candidates and makes succession plans for the Groups senior leadership.
This nominations to the Board for its approval as appropriate.
covered the Groups most senior leadership cadre as well all Inaddition, on behalf of the Board, the Committee considers business and function roles that report directly to the Executive any potential conicts of interest declared by our Board Management Group.
In addition, the Chairman and the members.
The Committee also keeps under review the independent non-executive directors informally met on four leadership needs of, and succession planning for, the Group separate occasions to receive updates on the evolving thinking inrelation to both directors and other senior executives, and on executive and non-executive succession planning.
This considers recommendations made by the Group Chief culminated in an ad hoc Committee meeting, to which all Executive or the Committee for changes to the executive independent non-executive directors were invited, to membership of the Board.
Its remit also includes making considerand discuss the proposed changes to the recommendations for the appointment or removal of the Group organisationof our business that were subsequently Chairman, Group Chief Executive or any director, and the terms announced on 9January 2014. associated with such recommendations.
Annual re-election of directors During the year, the Committees remit was expanded to Each year the Committee reviews the performance of each of reectits role in determining the Boards composition the directors seeking annual re-election at our Annual General diversityguidelines, and overseeing the plans to achieve these.
As part ofthis process, our Chairman reports This followed changes to the PRA rules in December 2013 to tothe Committee on theoutcome of his performance evaluation implement the CRDIV legislation.
Further information on of each individual director.
In considering the performance of thiscan be found on page 174. eachindividual director, our Chairman met with all of our directors individually in2013 to review their performance and Succession planning effectiveness.
This review included consideration of their time In 2013, the Committee focused heavily on the second phase commitment and performance against the agreed tailored ofour multi-year Board succession plan.
Its priorities included engagement plan for each non-executive director.
The determining the phasing of the independent non-executive Chairman also elicited feedback regarding the Boards directors stepping down and joining the Board: identifying composition and current and future Committee membership successors to chair the four primary board committees: and structure.
andcontinuing the smooth transition of Board and committeemembership.
The UK Corporate Governance Code, requires a rigorous assessment of those independent non-executive directors The Committee continued to conduct a thorough and whohave served more than six years in ofce to be conducted.
comprehensive review of the skills and experience of our This assessment covered Ruth Markland and Paul Skinner, existing Board members and considered these against our both of whom have served on the Board for more than nine multi-year succession plan to ensure that we have the right years.
When considering their re-appointment, the Code balance to support the future development of our business.
requires thatthe Board should state its reason for determining Following this review, which included the core competencies their independence notwithstanding their length of tenure.
and skills that it would be desirable to have on the Board and its Historically, the Committee has reviewed the independence of committees, the Committee oversaw the process which led to those independent non-executive directors who have reached the appointments of Kurt Campbell, Christine Hodgson and or exceeded a nine-year tenure and made recommendations Naguib Kheraj.
In the appointment of Christine and Naguib, the tothe Board.
However, given that the majority of Committee external search rm, Lygon Group, was used.
Lygon Group has members had served more than nine years, it was decided that no other connection with Standard Chartered.
Separately, 174 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance continued it was more appropriate that this matter be dealt with by the Committee effectiveness review Board.
The relevant directors recused themselves from the When reviewing its effectiveness, the Committee considered Board conversation.
Further details of this assessment are and agreed that the composition comprising our Group provided on page 152.
Chairman and the chairs of each of our board committees remained appropriate.
It also considered the quality and volume As Senior Independent Director, Ruth Markland conducted of the information it receives and the mechanisms used to arigorous review in relation to our Group Chairmans ensure that the Board as a whole is kept up to date regarding performance.
This involved a meeting between the independent both executive and independent non-executive succession non-executive directors and the feedback provided by the planning.
In both cases, the Committee was satisfied that these Board as a whole as part of the Board effectiveness review were appropriate and should continue to be an area of focus process.
Ruth also met with each of the executive directors going forward.
separately to gain insight into their thoughts and views.
The feedback concluded that Sir John Peace continues to have Situational conicts thefull and unequivocal support of the Board.
Following this As part of our remit, the Committee re-appraised the meeting, Ruth wrote to Sir John summarising the feedback authorisations that had previously been provided to directors for andshared a copy of her letter with the Board.
those situations in which he she had, or potentially could have in the future, a direct or indirect interest that conicts with the Board diversity policy interests of the Company.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Boards published Diversity Statement to reect new CRDIV regulations which The conclusion of the Committees review was that there were came into force on 1 January 2014. no circumstances that would necessitate the authorisation given previously being revoked or amended.
Following this review, the Committee recommended to the Board a revised Board Diversity Policy which is available at Executive mentoring and development www.
com The Committee continues to support the programme whereby Currently we have a diverse mix of ethnicity, gender and a number of independent non-executive directors mentor senior experience on our Board, including two women and seven leaders.
This programme was first introduced in 2010 with the different nationalities.
There are 12 directors who have lived or aim of providing development support to a number of our most worked across Asia, Africa and or the Middle East.
It also allows our independent non-executive directors to gain a more in-depth perspective of All Board appointments are based on meritocracy, with the the strengths and capabilities of these individuals.
prime consideration being to maintain and enhance the Boards overall effectiveness.
Within this, the Board recognises that diversity in all its aspects, including gender, is an important factor to take into consideration.
As part of this, the Boards aim is that, by 2017, there will be 25 per cent female representation on the Board.
With the unexpected resignation of Margaret Ewing in January 2014 due to health reasons, the Committee has refreshed its succession plans to ensure that we are on track to achieve our stated gender diversity aspiration.
The Committee will continue to oversee plans to achieve this, balancing all the factors needed to maximise the Boards effectiveness.
These plans include the use of an executive search rm that has signed-up to Lord Davies voluntary code of conduct and ensuring that candidate lists are appropriately diverse and that at least 30 per cent of the initial candidates are female.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Groups leadership succession and noted the progress being made to grow the female talent pipeline at senior management level.
This included that at least four female members of the Groups senior management team serve as non-executive directors on other company boards.
Further details on the Groups approach to diversity can be found on page 33.
Corporate governance 175 1 2 34 Board Regulatory Compliance Oversight Committee During 2013 Scheduled meetings: 6 J W Peace Chairman 1 6 6 57 5 6 V Shankar 2 5 6 A M G Rees 3 5 6 R H P Markham 4 6 6 R Markland 5 6 6 J F T Dundas 6 5 6 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: P D Skinner 7 6 6 Chief Executive officer and Group Company Secretary Note: There were no ad hoc Committee meetings in 2013 Role and responsibilities This was a special purpose committee established at the beginning of 2013.
The Committee was set up to oversee, on behalf of the Board, matters relating to the Groups compliance with its obligations under the settlements with the US 4 authorities.
This includes its responses to other requests, subpoenas and orders from any Federal or State US, or other relevant, authority in respect of such settlements and or the Groups historic and current compliance with US sanctions regulations further information regarding the Groups approach to regulatory compliance can be found in the Principal uncertainties section of the Risk review on pages 66 to 69.
Inaddition to the independent non-executive directors, the Committee includes executive directors who have oversight forthe delivery of these obligations.
The Committee meets on an ad hoc basis and receives reportson The New York Department of Financial Services Remediation Programme.
The current intention is that once the United States Department of Justice and the New York County District Attorneys Ofce Deferred Prosecution Agreements and The New York Department of Financial Services Consent Order are lifted there will be no further need for this Committee.
The Group is committed to proving it leads the way in combating financial crime, while providing quality service for our clients.
In support of this objective the Group has established a Financial Crime Risk Mitigation Programme FCRMP, a comprehensive, multi-year programme designed to review many aspects of the Groups existing approach to anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance and to enhance them as appropriate to meet this objective.
One key component of the FCRMP is the response to the 2012 settlements with US 4 authorities regarding historical sanctions compliance.
This component is referred to as the US Supervisory Remediation Programme SRP and has been an area of focus for the Committee during 2013.
The SRP comprises work streams designed to ensure compliance with the remediation requirements contained in all of the settlement agreements.
Going forward in 2014, given the Audit Committees role, on behalf of the Board, for oversight of internal controls it will have oversight of the FCRMP, including the SRP.
The Committee will focus on responses to other requests, subpoenas and orders in respect of Groups historic and current compliance with US sanctions regulations during 2014.
4 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Ofce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED
