Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 21 21 Corporate governance The Group recognises the importance of high standards of corporate The Board currently consists of the Chairman, three Executive and governance and is committed to operating within an effective four Non-Executive Directors, brief biographies of whom can be corporate governance framework through the operation of Board found on page 20.
Andrew Page will join the Board on 1 July 2013 committees, internal procedures and Group policies.
This report, as an additional independent Non-Executive Director.
There is a the Audit Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of Report, explain how the Company has applied the principles new Directors to the Board and this is described in the section set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the concerning the Nomination Committee on page 23.
As at 27 April 2013 a quarter of the Board was female two out The structure of the Board and its Committees is set out below: of eight and one out of six members of the Executive Committee was female.
Carpetright plc Board of Directors All Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Customer Committee Committee Committee and Corporate Until 14 May 2012 the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were Responsibility both held by Lord Harris.
He ceased to be Chief Executive when Committee Darren Shapland was appointed to that role.
Lord Harris remains as Chairman and for the financial year ended in April 2013 worked The Board four days per week in support of Darren Shapland in specific areas Details of the number of meetings and Board attendance are of the business, notably property and buying.
Since 1 June 2013, set out below: reflecting the progress made in the last year, Lord Harris has reduced his time commitment to three days per week.
Following Number of Full Board Meetings in the 2012 13 the appointment of a Trading Director in May 2013, Lord Harris financial year: 6 will be working with the Trading Director so that his involvement Maximum number of Meetings the in the buying role can be transferred and it is anticipated that his Director could executive involvement in the Companys property activities will Directors Attendance have attended also significantly reduce in the near future.
As a consequence Lord Harris 66 Lord Harriss time commitment is expected to reduce further.
Chairman Darren Shapland 66 A formal statement on the division of responsibilities between the Chief Executive Chairman and Chief Executive has been adopted by the Board and this makes it clear that the Chief Executive has the responsibility and Neil Page 66 accountability for running the business.
Group Finance Director The Non-Executive Directors of the Company play a key Martin Harris 66 governance role and bring an extra dimension to the Boards Group Development Director deliberations.
The Board considered the independence of each Baroness Noakes 66 Non-Executive Director against the criteria specified in the UK Deputy Chairman and Senior Corporate Governance Code and has determined that each Independent Director remains fully independent.
The Board in particular considered Alan Dickinson 66 the independence of both Baroness Noakes and Alan Dickinson, Independent Non-Executive Director both of whom are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgment.
Sandra Turner 66 Independent Non-Executive Director In reaching this determination the Board specifically considered David Clifford 66 the fact that Baroness Noakes is a Non-Executive Director of the Independent Non-Executive Director Royal Bank of Scotland, the Companys principal banker, and she has served as a Director of the Company for more than nine years from the date of her first election.
uk 22 22 Governance continued Corporate governance continued Baroness Noakes had intended to step down from the Board in 2012, Directors receive monthly trading results, commentary, briefing but at the request of the Board agreed to remain on the Board in notes and reports for their consideration in advance of each Board order to facilitate the transition of the Company to the new meeting, including reports on the Groups operations, to ensure that management arrangements.
She has been the Senior Independent they remain briefed on the latest developments and are able to make Director SID since 2004 and assumed the role of Deputy fully informed decisions.
She ceased to be Chairman of the Audit All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Committee in July 2012 but continues to chair the Nomination Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure Committee and remains a member of all Board Committees.
She whereby Directors may take independent professional advice at the plays an active role in determining the agenda for the Board, the Companys expense.
In addition, such advice may include training Board appraisal process and in ensuring that any issues raised by the in order to enable them to discharge their roles and responsibilities Non-Executive Directors are dealt with.
She also keeps under review as a Director.
All new Directors receive an induction tailored to the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief their particular requirements.
Executive so that it works well in practice.
Board committees The Board views that it is appropriately balanced, comprising The Board has four Committees, each of which has written terms the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five independent of reference which are available on the Companys corporate website Non-Executive Directors.
The Board believes that its current size and structure are appropriate The Board periodically reviews the membership of its for managing the Group in an effective and successful manner.
Committees to ensure that it is refreshed.
The Company provides A process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit, Nomination, the Committees with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Remuneration and Customer and Corporate Responsibility The Company Secretary, or his nominee, acts as Secretary to Committees has been undertaken.
The exercise to evaluate the each Committee.
performance of the Board was led by the Deputy Chairman, and The role of the Audit Committee, its members and details of how those of the Audit and Remuneration Committees were led by the it carried out its duties are set out in the Audit Committee report chairmen of those committees.
The results of these assessments on page 25. have been considered by the Board and confirmed the strength of leadership within the business and a sound governance The role of the Remuneration Committee, its members and details framework.
Only minor changes to the way that the Board of how it carried out its duties are set out in the Directors works were found necessary.
remuneration report on pages 26 to 35.
The Non-Executive Directors meet, with no Executive Directors The Customer and Corporate Responsibility Committee present, at least once each year inter alia to review the performance comprises the individuals set out in the table below which also of the Chairman.
provides details of the number of meetings and attendance.
The Corporate Responsibility Report is set out on pages 17 to 19.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups objectives and policies, providing effective leadership and for approving the Group Number of Meetings in the 2012 13 financial year: 3 strategy, budgets, business plans and major capital expenditure.
It Maximum number has responsibility for the management, direction and performance of Meetings the Director could of the Group and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for Members Attendance have attended the proper conduct of its business.
The Board has a formal schedule Sandra Turner 3 3 which sets out those matters requiring Board approval and Committee Chairman specifically reserved to it for decision.
Darren Shapland 3 3 Day-to-day management is delegated to the Chief Executive who Martin Harris 3 3 chairs an Executive Committee.
Other members of the Executive Baroness Noakes 3 3 Committee are the Group Finance Director, Group Development Director, the Operations Directors for each of the UK and the Rest David Clifford 3 3 of Europe, the Trading Director and the Company Secretary.
Claire Balmforth 3 3 Operations Director UK Andy Corden 3 3 Operations Director Europe Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 23 23 The Nomination Committee is chaired by Baroness Noakes.
The performance of individual Directors is considered as part of the Details of its membership and attendance are set out below: annual Board appraisal process.
The individual development needs of Executive Directors are overseen by the Nomination Committee, Number of Meetings in the 2012 13 financial year: 4 which includes the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors have access Maximum number to professional development provided by external bodies.
Their of Meetings the member could continuing competence is considered by the Nomination Members Attendance have attended Committee as part of the annual process of recommending the Baroness Noakes 44 reappointment of Directors at the AGM.
Committee Chairman Lord Harris 44 Risk Management and Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Alan Dickinson 44 internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to fulfil this responsibility, safeguard shareholder investment and the Companys and the Groups assets, the Directors have established The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: an organisational framework with clear operational procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority which has operated identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board.
External search consultants are generally appointed to throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
assist in the search process: reviewing development needs of the Executive: and The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the achievement of making recommendations to the Board on Board composition the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any and balance.
system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed The Committee considers the diversity of the Board and the rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only skills and competencies of the existing Directors when drawing provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material up specifications for new appointments.
It ensures that the misstatement or loss.
development needs of Executive Directors and other senior The Board has reviewed the Groups systems of internal controls managers are addressed appropriately.
The Chief Executive attends the Nomination Committee meetings at the invitation including financial, operational and compliance controls as well as risk management, and is satisfied that these accord with the of the Committee Chairman.
guidance on internal controls set out in Internal Control: Revised The Committee also considers whether Directors due to retire Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, issued by the at an Annual General Meeting should be recommended for Financial Reporting Council in October 2005. re-appointment, and whether the appointment of Non-Executive Directors reaching the end of their three-year term should be The day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the Groups system of internal control is collectively renewed.
Committee members do not vote on their own re-appointment.
assumed by the Executive Directors.
An Executive Risk Committee ERC comprising the Executive Directors and senior managers An external search consultancy was engaged in relation to exists to review key risk and control issues.
the recruitment of Andrew Page as an additional independent Non-Executive Director.
Several key processes exist within the Group to ensure a sound system of internal control, which is described overleaf: Continuing Professional Development All Board members are updated on matters relevant to the Group, including legal and regulatory developments, and members of Board committees are updated on matters relevant to their committee membership.
In the year the Remuneration Committee received updates on current best practice from New Bridge Street.
uk 24 24 Governance continued Corporate governance continued Identification of business risks Planning The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks The Groups planning process underpins the development of the faced by the Group, and determining a suitable response.
The budget is reviewed and approved formally identifies and assesses risks to the Groups medium-term strategy.
Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis The ERC directs the risk management processes within both the and measured against the budget and the prior year and a detailed UK and the Rest of Europe to address each of the identified risks, explanation of significant variances is provided.
formulate a mitigation strategy and assess the likely impact of such risk occurring.
The ERC provides regular reports to the Control procedures Audit Committee.
The Group has control procedures designed to provide a complete and accurate record of financial transactions, to ensure correct During the financial year the UK Risk Management Committee accounting and to minimise the possible exposure to fraudulent and the European Risk Management Committee met quarterly transactions.
The Board believes that the measures taken, including and each comprised a small number of the senior management physical controls, separation of duties and management reviews, team as regular members, who are able to call on the expertise of provide suitable assurance.
Any issues raised by the Groups other managers as required.
The work formerly carried out by the auditors or the internal audit function are fully reviewed UK Risk Management Committee is being absorbed by the ERC and and considered.
the UK Risk Management Committee is being disbanded.
The UK Risk Management Committee and the ERC considered the response Management and specialists within the finance team are to the significant risks which have been identified by management responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial and others, and monitors the maintenance of a control environment records and processes that ensure all financial information is directed towards the proper management of risk.
relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and appropriate information is distributed both The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business are set internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed Health and safety by management to ensure that the financial position and results of Enforcing the health and safety policy is a high priority for the Group are appropriately reflected.
The preliminary and interim management and manuals are available to colleagues, supported by a results are subject to review by the Audit Committee prior to training programme for stores, distribution centres and offices.
Risk approval by the Board.
assessments are undertaken for all procedures and safe systems of Share capital work devised for all procedures involving physical risk.
Failure to Details of the Companys share capital and significant shareholders adhere to safe systems of work or following unsafe working practices can be found on pages 37 and 38. will be subject to review and, if necessary, disciplinary proceedings.
Health and safety issues are included as part of the internal audit Statement of Compliance review of all premises.
During the financial year ended 27 April 2013 the Company complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Internal audit Governance Code except as set out below.
The internal audit function: The Company did not comply with provision A.
2.1 of the UK undertakes its work, both on central functions and in the field, Corporate Governance Code for the entire period as the roles of based on a risk assessment model: Chairman and Chief Executive were combined for a short period provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective at the start of the 2012 13 financial year, until mid-May 2012.
The assurance on the control environment across the Group: and roles were combined until such time as Darren Shapland was able to start in his role as the Chief Executive.
monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013
