230986 Temple Bar pp19-pp30 17 02 2014 12:14 Page 26 Active investment working for you Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the Committee's first formal report reviewing the appropriateness of the Company's to shareholders on the effectiveness of the external audit accounting policies: and process and how this has been assessed for the year ended ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems 31 December 2013. and standards.
Role and responsibilities Significant issues considered regarding the Annual The Company has established a separately chaired Audit Report and Financial Statements Committee the Committee whose duties include During the year, the Committee identified a number of considering and recommending to the Board for approval significant issues and areas of key audit risk in respect of the contents of the half yearly and annual financial the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The statements, and providing an opinion as to whether the Committee reviewed the external audit plan at an early Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, stage and concluded that the appropriate areas of audit risk understandable and provides the information necessary for relevant to the Company had been identified and that shareholders to assess the Company's performance, suitable audit procedures had been put in place to obtain business model and strategy.
The Committee also reviews reasonable assurance that the financial statements as a the external auditor's report thereon and is responsible for whole would be free of material misstatements.
The table reviewing and forming an opinion on the effectiveness of below sets out the key areas of risk identified and also the external audit process and audit quality.
Other duties explains how these were addressed by the Committee.
include reviewing the appropriateness of the Company's accounting policies and ensuring the adequacy of the Significant issue How the issue was addressed internal control systems and standards, as set out in more Verification of the The audit includes checks on detail below.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are existence of the the existence and ownership of available on the Company's website at assets in the portfolio investments.
co. uk The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The two The valuation of the The audit includes a check of planned meetings are held prior to the Board meetings to investment portfolio pricing back to source data to approve the half yearly and annual results.
confirm that the correct valuation basis has been applied in Composition accordance with the accounting All the Directors are members of the Committee, which is policies adopted, as disclosed in chaired by Mr Jewson.
The Board considers that the note 1 to the Financial Statements.
members of the Committee have sufficient recent and Going concern Having considered the Companys relevant financial experience for the Committee to discharge its function effectively.
The Chairman of the investment objective, risk Company is a member of the Committee to enable him to management policies and cash be kept fully informed of any issues which may arise.
flow projections the Committee is satisfied that the Company has Responsibilities and review of the external audit adequate resources and an During the year the principal activities of the Committee appropriate financial structure to included: continue in operational existence considering and recommending to the Board for approval for the foreseeable future.
the contents of the half yearly and annual financial Compliance with Ongoing compliance with the statements and reviewing the external auditor's report Sections 1158 and eligibility criteria is monitored thereon: 1159 of the on a regular basis.
reviewing the scope, execution, results, cost Corporation Tax effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the Act 2010 external auditor: reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval The verification of The auditor verifies that all the audit and non-audit fees payable to the external investment income dividend income due to the auditor and the terms of their engagement: Company has been received or is reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for properly accrued for.
the financial year, with a focus on the identification of The accuracy of the The audit includes checks on the areas of audit risk, and consideration of the calculation of calculation of the management appropriateness of the level of audit materiality adopted: management fees to ensure these are reviewing the quality of the audit engagement partner fees correct and in accordance with and the audit team, and making a recommendation to the contractual arrangements.
Board with respect to the re-appointment of the auditor: 26 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 230986 Temple Bar pp19-pp30 14 02 2014 17:28 Page 27 Active investment working for you Report of the Audit Committee continued As the provision of portfolio valuation, accounting and value of independent audit, the booking of any audit administration services is delegated to the Company's adjustments arising and the timely provision of draft public Manager, Investec Asset Management, who sub-delegate documents, for review by the auditor and the Committee.
fund accounting to a third party service provider, and the To form a conclusion with regard to the independence of provision of custody services is contracted to HSBC, the the external auditor, the Committee considers whether the Committee has also reviewed the Service Organisation skills and experience of the auditor make them a suitable Control Reports SOC and Audit and Assurance Faculty supplier of the non-audit service and whether there is any AAF reports prepared by the Manager, Custodian and Fund threat to their objectivity and independence in the conduct of Accountants to ensure that the relevant control procedures the audit resulting from the provision of such services.
On an are in place to cover these areas of risk as identified above annual basis, Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of and are adequate, appropriate and have been designated as their relationship with the Company and report to the Board, operating effectively by the reporting accountant.
providing details of any other relationships with the Manager.
As part of this review, the Committee also receives Auditors and audit tenure information about policies and processes for maintaining The Company's current auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have independence and monitoring compliance with relevant acted in this role since 2003.
The appointment of the requirements from the Company's auditor, including auditor is reviewed each year and the audit partner changes information on the rotation of audit partners and staff, and at least every five years.
The last five yearly audit rotation details of any relationships between the audit firm and its took place in 2012.
It is intended that the audit will be put staff and the Company, as well as an overall confirmation out to tender when the current audit partners term ends in from the auditor of their independence and objectivity.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the result of their review, the Committee has concluded that Ernst Company's choice of auditors.
Other audit service fees of & Young LLP is independent of the Company and the Manager.
2,300 excluding VAT paid to Ernst & Young LLP, relate to their services in the electronic filing of tax returns.
Conclusions in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements Assessment of the efficiency of the external audit The production and audit of the Company's Annual Report process and Financial Statements is a comprehensive process To assess the effectiveness of the external audit, members requiring input from a number of different contributors.
One of the Committee work closely with the Manager to obtain of the key governance requirements of a Company's financial a good understanding of the progress and efficiency of the statements is for the Report and Financial Statements to be audit.
In order to reach a Feedback in relation to the audit process, and also of the conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested that the effectiveness of the Manager in performing its role, is also Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual sought from relevant involved parties, notably the audit Report and Financial Statements fulfils these requirements.
The external auditor is invited to attend As a result of the work performed, the Committee has the Committee meeting at which the annual accounts are concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended considered, where they have the opportunity to meet with 31 December 2013, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and the Committee without representatives of the Manager being understandable and provides the information necessary for present.
shareholders to assess the Company's performance, The effectiveness of the Board and the Manager in the business model and strategy.
The Committee has reported external audit process is assessed principally in relation to on these findings to the Board.
The Board's conclusions in the timely identification and resolution of any process this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors' errors or control breaches that might impact the Company's Responsibilities on page 28.
It is also assessed by reference to how successfully any issues in respect of areas Richard Jewson of accounting judgement are identified and resolved, the Chairman quality and timeliness of papers analysing these Audit Committee judgements, the Board and the Manager's approach to the 12 February 2014 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27
