230986 Temple Bar pp19-pp30 14 02 2014 17:28 Page 23 Active investment working for you Corporate governance APPLICATION OF AIC CODE PRINCIPLES Asset Management Limited IAM.
The Board makes all Corporate Governance is the process by which the board of strategic decisions, reviews the performance of the directors of a company looks after shareholders interests Company at Board meetings and sets the objectives for the and by which it seeks to enhance shareholder value.
The directors have a range of business and Shareholders hold the directors responsible for the financial skills and experience relevant to the direction of stewardship of a companys affairs, delegating authority and the Company.
Mr R W Jewson is the Senior Independent responsibility to the directors to manage the company on Director.
their behalf and holding them accountable for its The Corporate Company Secretary the Company performance.
Secretary is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for The Board is ultimately responsible for framing and ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for executing the Companys strategy and for closely compliance with applicable rules and regulations including monitoring risks.
It considers the practice of good the AIC Code.
Appointment or removal of the nominated governance to be an integral part of the way it manages the representative of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Company and is committed to maintaining high standards Board as a whole.
of financial reporting, transparency and business integrity.
The content and presentation of Board papers circulated As a UK-listed investment trust company the Boards before each meeting contain sufficient information on the principal reporting obligation is driven by the UK Corporate financial condition of the Company.
Key representatives of Governance Code the UK Code issued by the Financial IAM attend each Board meeting enabling directors to probe Reporting Council in September 2012.
However, as listed on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
investment trust companies differ in many ways from other There were seven Board meetings, two audit committee listed companies, the Association of Investment Companies meetings and one nomination committee meeting held has drawn up its own set of guidelines, the AIC Code of during the year and the attendance by the directors was as Corporate Governance the AIC Code issued in February follows: 2013, which addresses the governance issues relevant to Number of meetings attended investment companies and meets the approval of the Nomination Board Audit Committee Committee Financial Reporting Council.
The Board believes that reporting against the principles and recommendations of John Reeve 7 2 1 the AIC Code will provide better information to Arthur Copple 7 2 1 shareholders.
June fide Moller 7 2 1 The Company has complied with the recommendations Richard Jewson 7 2 1 of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Martin Riley 6 2 1 Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
The David Webster 6 1 1 UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: Diversity the role of the chief executive The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take executive directors remuneration this into consideration during the recruitment and the need for an internal audit function appointment process.
Typically, the Board seeks to ensure The Board considers these provisions are not relevant to that there is a suitable balance between directors with the position of Temple Bar, being an externally managed industrial commercial and traditional City backgrounds.
In particular, all of the Companys However, the Board is committed to appointing the most day-to-day management and administrative functions are appropriate candidate, regardless of gender or other forms outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no of diversity, and therefore no targets have been set against executive directors, employees or internal operations.
Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Independence of the directors COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AIC CODE Each of the directors is independent of any association with OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the Manager and has no other relationships or Operation of the Board circumstances which might be perceived to interfere with There is a formal schedule of matters to be specifically the exercise of independent judgement.
Three of the six approved by the Board and individual directors may seek directors Mr Reeve, Mr Jewson and Mr Riley have served independent advice at the expense of the Company within on the Board for more than nine years from the date of certain limits.
The Board has delegated the investment their first election, but given the nature of the Company as management, within clearly defined parameters and dealing an investment trust and the strongly independent mindset limits, and the administration of the business to Investec of the individuals involved, the Board is firmly of the view Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 230986 Temple Bar pp19-pp30 14 02 2014 17:28 Page 24 Active investment working for you Corporate governance continued that all of the directors can be considered to be members of the audit committee have relevant and recent independent.
In arriving at this conclusion the Board makes financial experience to fulfil their role effectively.
The a clear distinction between the activities of an investment auditor, who the Board has identified as being independent, trust and a conventional trading company.
An investment is invited to attend the audit committee meeting at which trust has no employees or executive directors, the only the annual accounts are considered and any other meetings significant relationship being with the Manager.
In that the committee deems necessary.
overseeing this relationship it is the view of the Board that long service aids the understanding, judgement, objectivity Nomination committee and independence of the directors and in no way detracts A nomination committee comprising all the directors has from any of these qualities.
been established to oversee a formal review procedure governing the appointment of new directors and to Induction and training evaluate the overall composition of the Board from time to New directors appointed to the Board are provided with an time, taking into account the existing balance of skills and induction programme which is tailored to the particular knowledge.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
Regular briefings are The committee is also responsible for assessing on an provided during the year on industry and regulatory annual basis the individual performance of directors and for matters and the directors receive other relevant training as making recommendations as to whether they should required.
Re-election of directors Management engagement committee Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the As all the directors are fully independent of the first AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, are management company, the Board as a whole fulfils the subject to retirement on an annual basis.
In addition, the function of a management engagement committee.
appointment of each director is reviewed by other members of the Board every year.
Directors are not, therefore, subject Board audit committee nomination to automatic re-appointment.
Non-executive directors are committee director ongoing evaluation not appointed for specified terms.
Because of the nature of On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its an investment trust the Board believes that the performance, together with that of the audit and contribution and independence of a director is not nomination committees and the effectiveness and diminished by long service and, conversely, that a more contribution of the individual directors, including the detailed knowledge of the Company and its business has a Chairman, within the context of service on those bodies.
The review encompasses an assessment of how cohesively The Board has carefully considered the position of each these bodies work as a whole as well as the performance of of the directors and believes it would be appropriate for the individuals within them.
During the year the Board also them to be proposed for re-election.
Each of the directors employed the services of the Institute of Directors to carry continues to be effective and to display an undiminished out an external evaluation of its performance.
On the basis enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
of these reviews the Board has concluded that it has an appropriate balance of skills and is operating effectively.
Audit committee The audit committee is a formally constituted committee Relations with shareholders of the Board with defined terms of reference.
It normally Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the meets twice yearly and among its specific responsibilities Board and the Manager.
The principal medium by which the are a review of the audit plan for the year, the review of the Company communicates with shareholders is through the Companys annual and half yearly results, together with half yearly reports, annual reports and interim management associated documentation, and the review of the internal statements.
The information contained therein is and financial controls applicable to the management supplemented by daily NAV announcements and by a company.
The committee also reviews the cost monthly fact sheet available on the Companys website.
effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditor.
The Board largely delegates responsibility for All of the directors are members of the audit committee communication with shareholders to the management and the Chairman is Mr Jewson.
The Board believes that it is company and, through feedback, expects to be able to appropriate for the Company Chairman to be a member of develop an understanding of their views.
Members of the the audit committee as it is important for him to be Board are willing to meet with shareholders for the purpose conversant with the detailed discussion related to the of discussing matters in relation to the operation and annual and interim report processes, including his own prospects of the Company.
The Board is satisfied that 24 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 230986 Temple Bar pp19-pp30 14 02 2014 17:28 Page 25 Active investment working for you Corporate governance continued The Board encourages investors to attend the AGM and sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it welcomes questions and discussion on issues of concern or to monitor adequately the investment performance and areas of uncertainty.
In addition, special arrangements have status of the business.
been established to allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme The Board has also established a series of investment investors to participate fully at AGMs.
A separate resolution parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit will be proposed at the AGM in respect of each substantially the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
Following the formal AGM proceedings the The safeguarding of assets is entrusted to an independent Manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the reputable custodian with whom the holdings are regularly key investment issues that face the Company.
The effectiveness of the overall system of internal Accountability, internal controls and audit control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all system can provide only reasonable and not absolute documents released by the Company, including the Annual assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board Report, present a fair and accurate assessment of the believes that there is a robust framework of internal Companys position and prospects.
controls in place to meet the requirements of the AIC Code.
The directors are responsible for the Companys system The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Based on the foregoing the Company has a order to facilitate the control process the Board has continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing requested the Manager to confirm annually that it has the risks it faces.
This process has been in place for the conducted the Companys affairs in compliance with the reporting period and to the date of this report and is legal and regulatory obligations which apply to the regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the Company and to report on the systems and procedures Turnbull Guidance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
within IAM which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting receives Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25
