Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Corporate Governance Report The Directors, whose names and details are set out on The terms of the Directors service agreements and letters page 21, are responsible for the corporate governance of appointment are summarised in the Report on Directors of the Group.
They are committed to ensuring that from Remuneration.
The service agreements and the letters of the top downwards the highest standards of corporate appointment will be available for inspection during normal governance are maintained.
They support the principles of business hours on any weekday other than public holidays good corporate governance and code of best practice laid at the Companys registered office, and at the AGM from down in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the fifteen minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code, Independence of Directors which is publicly available at www.
The Board has determined that all of the Non-executive Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 the Board Directors are independent.
The Senior Independent Nonbelieves it has complied with the principles and provisions executive Director has responsibility for dealing with any recommended by the Code.
The manner in which the shareholders who have concerns which contact through the Company has applied the principles of good governance normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance set out in the Code is outlined below.
Director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director provides a sounding board for the Chairman and DIRECTORS is available to act as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary.
Composition of the Board The Board currently comprises two Executive Directors, four Induction, professional development and independent Non-executive Directors and a Non-executive corporate awareness Chairman.
All Directors receive an induction to the Company on joining There were several Board changes during 2013 and since the the Board and relevant training is available to Directors to year end.
Keith Hamill and David Clark retired on 6 March assist them in the performance of their duties.
The Chairman 2013 and 9 May 2013 respectively and David Shalders was is responsible for ensuring that Directors continually update appointed as a Non-executive Director on 27 February 2014. their skills and knowledge and familiarity with the Company required to fulfil their role on the Board and its committees.
The Chairman, Rupert Robson, was, at appointment, The Audit and Remuneration Committees receive briefings independent of the Company and the management, but, as on current developments.
The Non-executive Directors take Chairman, is not classified as independent under the Code.
advantage of sector and general conferences and seminars His other significant commitments are noted in his and training events organised by professional firms and biography on page 21. receive circulars and training materials from the Company The Directors biographies on page 21 demonstrate the and other professional advisers.
Presentations are made Boards depth and breadth of experience and skill.
Five of to the Board by members of the Companys Executive the Directors including four of the Non-executive Directors Committee and arrangements are made for Non-executive have extensive previous experience at senior levels in the Directors to meet members of the management teams.
Two of the Directors are chartered Non-executive Directors periodically visit the Companys accountants one of who was an audit partner in a major international offices, usually in connection with other firm of accountants.
The Finance Director was previously activities.
The Board is kept informed of any material Finance Director of a number of other companies.
shareholder correspondence, brokers reports on the Company and sector, institutional voting agency There is a clearly defined and documented division recommendations and documents reflecting current of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief shareholder thinking.
The primary responsibility of the Chairman is the leadership of the Board.
The primary responsibility of the Chief Executive is the running of the Companys operations, maintaining effective management and the development and implementation of strategy in order to maximise shareholder value.
The Board allows the Executive Directors to take up appointments with other companies on the proviso that the time commitment involved is not too onerous and would not conflict with their duties to the Company.
25 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 25 25 03 2014 16:49 Corporate Governance Report continued Non-executive Directors met without the Chairman being Conflicts of interest present to evaluate the Chairmans performance, having first The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board obtained feedback from the Executive Directors.
Appropriate to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where feedback was provided following these meetings.
The a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly Chairman has also provided feedback on performance conflict, with the interests of the Company a Relevant to the Non-executive Directors.
The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to declare Relevant Situations to be considered for Election or re-election at the AGM authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the At the 2012 AGM, amendments to the Companys Articles matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a with regard to re-election of Directors were approved in Relevant Situation, the non-conflicted Directors must act order to align them with the recommendations set out in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely in the Code.
Consequently, the Articles require that, at each to promote the success of the Company, and they may AGM of the Company, all Directors must retire from office impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation or and each Director wishing to serve again must submit subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
The Board has themselves for election or re-election by shareholders.
followed the prescribed procedures in deciding whether, and Details of those Directors who are submitting themselves on what terms, to authorise Relevant Situations and believes for election or re-election at this years AGM are set out in that the systems it has in place for reporting and considering the separate notice of meeting.
Relevant Situations, including an annual review of authorisations, continue to operate effectively.
During the year David Shalders was appointed since the last AGM and the independent Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior accordingly is subject to election at the forthcoming AGM.
Independent Non-executive Director, reviewed the external The Board believes that David Shalders brings extensive business commitments of members of the Board and operations and technology expertise in major financial concluded that none of these gave rise to conflicts of institutions to the Board, which will enable him to make interest or other factors which might affect the effective a valuable contribution to the Board, given the significant operation of the Company or the Board.
changes which the IDB industry continues to undergo and the Board recommends his election.
Performance evaluation The Chairman has confirmed in the Chairmans Statement, Reviews of the effectiveness of the Board and its and the Board is satisfied that, following formal Committees and the performance of individual Directors performance evaluation, the performance of each of the were undertaken in 2013.
The effectiveness of the Board Directors offering themselves for re-election continues was reviewed with the assistance, for the first time, of to be effective, and that each demonstrates commitment an independent facilitator, Lygon Group.
has no other connections to the Company.
In this process, consideration was given to the Boards leadership and the Biographies of all Directors are set out on page 21. effectiveness of Board meetings, the Boards composition and dynamics, risk management processes, committee Board administration structure and performance, induction and training and The Board has a formal Schedule of Matters reserved to it management of shareholder relationships.
Following for decision, which can be viewed on the Companys website the review the Board agreed to introduce more informal www.
The Schedule includes, among Non-executive Director interaction with senior other things: management, to supply more industry information to approval of the Groups strategy: Non-executive Directors to ensure their market knowledge continues to be up to date, to adopt more formal succession changes to the Groups capital or corporate structure: plans and to continue to maintain shareholder engagement oversight of the Groups management, governance and by Non-executive Directors.
In summary, the review control structure: concluded that the Board functioned well and that any changes in practice were of the nature of slight approval of any material borrowing or commitment: modifications and developments.
All of these changes Board appointments and removals: have been documented and effected.
The reviews of Board committee effectiveness similarly concluded the approval of the prosecution or settlement that the Boards committees were operating effectively.
of all litigation which is material to the interests of the Group: Performance evaluations of individual Directors were also undertaken which considered the effectiveness and reporting to shareholders: and commitment of the individual Directors and the need for any environmental, social and governance policies, including training or development.
In February 2013 and January 2014, corporate social responsibility policy.
the Chairman formally met the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present to evaluate Beneath the Board there is a structure of delegated the performance of the individual Executive Directors.
The authority which sets out the authority levels allocated Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other to the individual Directors and senior management.
26 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 26 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Nominations Committees to which it has delegated some of Board keeps up to date with key changes in legislation which its responsibilities.
Each of the Committees has detailed terms affect the Company.
The appointment or removal of the of reference, which can be viewed on the Companys website Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
and a schedule of business to be transacted during the year.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee were AUDIT COMMITTEE amended in January 2014 to take account of additional responsibilities introduced by the UK Governments new Composition reporting requirements.
The responsibilities of each of the Roger Perkin chaired the Audit Committee throughout the Committees together with an overview of their meetings year.
The other members of the Committee throughout the during the year are described below.
year were Angela Knight and Stephen Pull.
Rupert Robson The Board and its Committees are provided with appropriate was a member until his appointment as Chairman of the information on a timely basis to enable them to discharge Board on 6 March 2013.
All members of the Committee are their duties.
All Directors receive written reports prior to independent Non-executive Directors.
The Audit Committee each meeting which enable them to make an informed Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience.
decision on corporate and business issues under review.
The Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Companys All Board meetings are minuted and any unresolved external and internal auditors, the Group Treasurer and Head concerns are recorded in such minutes.
of Risk Control, and other senior finance personnel may The Group has a comprehensive system for financial attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee reporting which is subject to review by both internal and has a discussion with the external auditor at least once external audit.
Budgets, regular re-forecasts and monthly a year without the Executive Directors being present, management accounts including KPIs, income statements, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
balance sheets and cash flows are prepared at all levels of the business and consolidated reports are reviewed by Terms of reference the Board.
Throughout 2013 the Audit Committees terms of reference included: The Board has a schedule of eight meetings each year to discuss the Groups ordinary course of business.
Every effort recommendation on appointment and terms of is made to arrange these meetings so that all Directors engagement of the external auditor: can attend: additional meetings are arranged as required.
review of independence and objectivity of the external The table below sets out the Board and Committee auditor: attendance record during the year.
approval of the annual audit plan, scope of engagement All Directors have access to the services of the Company and review of effectiveness of the audit process: Secretary and there are procedures in place for taking monitoring the integrity of the financial statements: independent professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
review of the results of the audit: Board and Committee attendance record Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Terry Smith 8 8 Paul Mainwaring 8 8 Non-executive Directors Rupert Robson 8 8 1 1 2 2 2 2 Angela Knight 8 8 4 4 4 4 3 3 Roger Perkin 8 8 4 4 4 4 3 3 Stephen Pull 8 8 4 4 4 4 3 3 Keith Hamill 2 2 David Clark 2 2 1 1 3 3 2 2 Excludes meetings of committees of the Board appointed to complete routine business or business previously approved by the Board.
27 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 27 25 03 2014 16:49 Corporate Governance Report continued review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal At the same time that the external audit was put control and risk management procedures: out for tender, the Audit Committee also reviewed internal audit arrangements.
A request for proposal for internal audit approval of the annual internal audit plan, review of services was issued at the same time as the external audit the effectiveness of the internal audit function, and request and a similar process was run.
The Audit Committee consideration of internal audit reports: and considered the proposals made and concluded that KPMG had submitted the best proposals and accordingly a review of the arrangements by which staff may, recommendation was made to the Board that KPMG should in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties in be appointed as the Companys internal auditor.
The Board financial reporting and other matters.
accepted the Audit Committees recommendation.
KPMG In January 2014 the terms of reference were extended will therefore assume responsibility for the Groups Internal to incorporate additional responsibilities introduced Audit with effect from 1 July 2014. by the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code including the responsibility to report to the Board on how it has External auditor effectiveness and independence discharged its duties and to provide advice to the Board In considering the 2013 Annual Report, the Audit Committee on whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, reviewed the objectivity and independence of the external balanced and understandable and provides the information auditor.
The Audit Committee considered the professional necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and regulatory guidance on auditor independence and performance, business model and strategy.
Deloittes policies and procedures for managing independence and was satisfied with the auditors The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available representations.
The Audit Committee reviewed the level of on the Companys website www.
fees paid to the auditor in respect of the various non-audit services provided during 2013 which are disclosed in Note 6 Work of the Audit Committee during 2013 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The auditor The Audit Committee was engaged in a number of confirmed to the Audit Committee that they did not believe workstreams during 2013 as described below.
that the level of non-audit fees had affected their Audit tenders independence.
The Companys policy is to use the most Deloitte LLP Deloitte has been the Companys auditor appropriate advisers for non-audit work, taking account since its listing in December 2006. of the need to maintain independence.
To this end, the Company has defined those activities which cannot be In 2013 the Board put the external audit contract provided by the external auditor in order to maintain out for tender.
A request for proposal was issued requesting independence.
The Audit Committee reviewed this policy information on, inter alia, the audit firms capability and during the year to ensure that it continues to follow organisation, the experience of the proposed team, audit best practice.
quality control including management of conflicts and independence, the firms assessment of the audit During the year the Audit Committee considered the requirements and the key audit issues, their approach to effectiveness of the external auditor.
As part of the tender non-audit work and the proposed fees for the 2014 audit.
process, the incumbent auditors expertise, efficiency, global The tender process involved meetings with the Audit service delivery and cost effectiveness were considered.
Committee Chairman, Executive Directors and members The Audit Committee also monitored performance during of the senior management team, access to a virtual data the audit of the 2013 financial statements which included room, a written proposal and a presentation to the Audit receiving feedback from senior management.
The Audit Committee considered the proposals from this exercise was that the 2013 external audit had been made and concluded that Deloitte had submitted the best conducted effectively.
proposals all round and accordingly a recommendation Review of the financial statements was made to the Board that Deloitte should be re-appointed The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the as the Companys external auditor for 2014.
The Board Consolidated Financial Statements included in the half-year approved the re-appointment in December 2013.
For and preliminary announcements of results and the 2013 the 2014 external audit, a new lead audit partner will be Annual Report, prior to their approval by the Board.
appointed to the Companys audit by Deloitte in accordance When conducting the review, the Committee considered with normal rotation practices.
The Audit Committee will the continuing appropriateness of the accounting policies, monitor developments in best practice with regard to audit important financial reporting judgements and the adequacy tender arrangements.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the content of the Annual Report and advised the Board that, in its view, the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
28 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 28 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Audit Committee considered the following judgements effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems for 2013, in connection with the 2013 Consolidated Financial considering reports from management, external audit and the Statements and were satisfied that the judgements work of the Group risk control and internal audit functions.
were appropriate: During 2013 the Board also reviewed the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessments of its UK regulated entities.
the carrying value of goodwill: and Confidential reporting the level of tax provisions.
The Audit Committee reviewed arrangements by which The assumptions relating to the going concern review were staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties also considered, including the medium term projections, in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
In stress tests and mitigation plans.
On the basis of the review conducting the review, the Committee took into account the Audit Committee advised the Board that it was whether the policies were in line with guidance published appropriate for the Annual Report and financial statements by the FCA.
to be prepared on the going concern basis.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Effectiveness of Internal Audit The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
The internal The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Rupert Robson audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee and kept until 6 March 2013 when he was appointed Chairman under review during the year, in order to reflect the changing of the Board.
Stephen Pull has chaired the Remuneration business needs and to ensure new and emerging risks are Committee since that time.
The other members of the considered.
During 2013 the Audit Committee reviewed Remuneration Committee throughout the year were Angela the work and reports of Internal Audit, together with Knight and Roger Perkin.
David Clark was a member until implementation of internal audit recommendations and his retirement from the Board in May 2013.
All members monitored progress against the internal audit plan to ensure of the Remuneration Committee are independent Nonthat the audit plan had been completed effectively.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible on behalf The Audit Committee also reviewed and approved of the Board for developing and maintaining formal and the internal audit plan for the first half of 2014 which transparent policies on remuneration for the Companys will be completed by the current internal auditor, employees, the framework in which that policy is applied, .
It is intended that the internal and its cost.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee audit plan for the second half of 2014, which will be regularly reviews remuneration policies to ensure that undertaken by KPMG, will be approved in the first half they continue to be compliant with the relevant corporate of 2014. governance and regulatory requirements, including the Risk management and internal control Remuneration Code.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk The Remuneration Committee is responsible, on behalf of management framework and for monitoring the ongoing the Board, for: process for identifying, evaluating, managing and reporting reviewing and approving the general principles of the the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Groups risk Companys remuneration policies: management governance structure, risk management framework and risk profile are described in the Risk considering the relationship between incentives and risk: Management section of the Strategic Report.
During 2013 determining the application of the Companys the Audit Committee twice reviewed and approved remuneration policies to the Executive Directors: the Risk Assessment Framework.
reviewing the application of the Companys remuneration The Board is also responsible for the Groups system policies to Senior Management, Brokers and Control of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Functions: system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement the Chairman: or loss.
In discharging its responsibilities in this respect, the approving the remuneration of Senior Management after Board has appointed the Audit Committee to carry out the consultation with the Chief Executive: annual review of the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and to report to the Board thereon.
approving all share and long term incentive schemes and This process has been in place for the year under review and their application: and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, is reviewed reviewing and approving the Report on Directors regularly by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Audit Committee conducted a formal review of the 29 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 29 25 03 2014 16:49 Corporate Governance Report continued The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are The Company has plans in place for orderly succession for available on the Companys website www.
appointments to the Board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and The Chairman and the Executive Directors attend the experience within the Company and on the Board and to Remuneration Committee by invitation.
The Chairman and ensure the progressive refreshing of the Board.
The search the Executive Directors are not permitted to be in attendance for Board candidates is conducted with due regard to the when any matter relating to their own remuneration is being benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Board makes appointments on merit against objective criteria and accordingly it does not set diversity targets.
During 2013 and subsequently, the Remuneration Committee has been advised by  Work of the Nominations Committee executive compensation consultants.
As reported in last years Annual Report, the Nominations Further details of the work done by the Remuneration Committee dealt with the appointment of the Chairman, Committee in 2013, the Companys policies on remuneration, following Keith Hamills retirement.
service contracts and share options are given in the Report During the year the Nominations Committee considered on Directors Remuneration.
the composition of the Board with respect to balance of skill, knowledge and experience and as a consequence of this NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE review identified the need for a Non-executive Director with financial sector operational and technology experience.
The Nominations Committee was chaired by Keith Hamill The Committee undertook a process to identify a new until, on his retirement, he was succeeded by Rupert Robson independent Non-executive Director and the services of in March 2013.
The other members throughout the year an external search consultant were retained to assist it.
At were Angela Knight, Roger Perkin and Stephen Pull.
David the conclusion of this process, the Nominations Committee Clark was a member until his retirement in May 2013. recommended to the Board the appointment of David All members of the Committee, other than the Chairman, Shalders as an independent Non-executive Director of are independent Non-executive Directors.
In recommending the appointment of David Shalders who has recently been appointed Group The Terms of Reference of the Nominations Committee Operations & Technology Director at Willis Group Holdings provide that the Chairman of the Board is not permitted plc to the Board, the Committee noted his extensive to chair the Committee if it is dealing with the issue of experience, including over a decade in senior operations his replacement and accordingly neither Keith Hamill nor and IT roles at Royal Bank of Scotland Group.
Rupert Robson attended any meetings dealing with the appointment of a new Chairman.
In recommending to the Board the appointment of David Shalders, the Nominations Committee concluded The Board has delegated responsibility to the Nominations that his other commitments would not prevent him from Committee for: being able to devote the necessary time to his role.
reviewing the balance and skill, knowledge and experience The external search consultancy retained by the Board in of the Board: respect of David Shalders appointment was Spencer Stuart.
agreeing and implementing procedures for the selection The Company does not have any other connection with of new Board appointments: and Spencer Stuart.
making recommendations to the Board on all proposed new appointments, elections and re-elections of Directors at annual general meetings.
The Nominations Committee is authorised to obtain all necessary information from within the Company and to access professional advice inside and outside the Company, as it considers necessary.
The Terms of Reference of the Nominations Committee are available on the Companys website www.
30 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 30 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises the importance of communication with shareholders.
com, provides information for shareholders and prospective investors on the Groups activities, results, products and recent developments.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts, including presentations around the time of the results announcements and also on request.
During 2013 the Company recorded a webcast of its 2013 interim results presentation, which is also now available for download on the Companys website.
The Chairman has initiated contact with all of the largest shareholders and intends to maintain regular contact in future.
During the year the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee additionally met with many of the Companys largest shareholders as part of the consultation on Executive Director remuneration.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other Non-executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders, should such meetings be requested.
For the payment of the recommended final dividend for 2013 and future dividends, the Company has put in place a facility for payments to be made via CREST.
Annual General Meeting The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and welcomes their participation.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all of the Directors, including Chairmen of the Committees of the Board, are available at AGMs to answer questions and meet shareholders.
The proxy votes cast on each resolution proposed at general meetings are disclosed at those meetings.
To encourage shareholder participation, those shareholders whose shares are held via the CREST system are offered the facility to submit their proxy votes via CREST.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Directors statement regarding their responsibility for preparing the Annual Report is set out on page 44 and the independent auditors report regarding their reporting responsibility is on pages 45 to 48.
31 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
