Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles Board meetings and the relationship with the manager Typically, the Board meets approximately ten times each 12.
Boards and managers should operate in a supportive, year.
The Chief Executive Officer who is himself a director, co-operative and open environment.
other representatives of the Companys executive team and a representative of the Company Secretary expect to be present at all meetings.
The Board devotes two full days each year to meetings with the Companys investment managers and each investment manager sends representatives at least once a year.
The Chairman seeks to encourage open debate within the Board and a supportive and co-operative relationship with the executive team and with the Companys investment managers, advisors and support staff.
The Chief Executive Officer and his team monitor investment 13.
The primary focus at regular board meetings should performance and all associated matters.
He reports to each Board be a review of investment performance and associated meeting, at which investment performance, asset allocation, matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing gearing, marketing and investor relations are usually key investor relations, peer group information and industry agenda items.
The Board is responsible for determining the strategic direction 14.
Boards should give su cient attention to overall of the Company and for promoting its success.
its meetings each year is devoted entirely to reviewing overall strategy and progress is monitored throughout the year.
The board should regularly review both the performance The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviews the performance of and the contractual arrangements with the of, and contractual arrangements with, the manager or Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible executives of a self-managed company.
to the Board for reviewing the performance and the contractual arrangements of his staff.
The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee oversees this process.
The Chief Executive Officer leads on the selection and monitoring of the investment managers and their terms of reference, which are approved by the Board.
The Company manages its own operations through the Board 16.
The board should agree policies with the manager as set out on page 39.
Each investment manager runs a discrete covering key operational issues.
investment portfolio within the terms of the mandate given to them in an investment management contract.
Further details are given on page 39.
Shares are held by the Companys custodian.
The Chief Executive Officer and his team monitor the share price 17.
Boards should monitor the level of the share price and the discount to net asset value on a daily basis and he reports discount or premium if any and, if desirable, take to every Board meeting.
The Board has a share buy-back programme that seeks to add to the net asset value per share and achieve a sustainable discount of{not more than 10%.
The Chief Executive Officer and his team are responsible for 18.
The board should monitor and evaluate other service monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Companys providers.
The Boards Audit Committee oversees this process.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 37
