Report of the audit committee Risk Statement by the Chairma n of the Committee Management has identified Strateg ic Report pages 18 to 20 four main areas of risk: Market and Investment Portfolio, As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee, I am Operational, Corporate Governance and Accounting, pleased to present the Report of the Committee for the year Legal and Regulatory and has set out the actions taken to ended 31 December 2013. evaluate and manage these risks.
The Auditors have also detailed two specific areas of risk in their report: Investmen t Composition and responsibilities of the Committee valuation and liquidity and ownership of investments The Committee comprises three non-executive directors, and have set out the work they have performed to satisfy including its Chairman, who are appointed by the Board.
themselves that these have been properly reflected in the I was appointed Chairman of the Committee in 2007.
The Committee reviews the various Board has taken note of the requirement that at least actions{taken and satisfies itself that they are sufficient: one member of the Committee should have recent and in{particular the Committee reviews managements Risk relevant financial experience and is satisfied that the Report at each meeting and requires amendments to both Committee is properly constituted in this respect, as I risks and mitigation actions if appropriate.
am a Chartered Accountant and was previously a partner in  LLP.
Mr Watson, who was Meetings of the Committee appointed to the Committee in 2006, was a member of the The Committee held three meetings during 2013, in February, Committee throughout the year.
Mr Bruce was appointed to August and November and also met in February 2014. the Committee in 2002 and retired as a director in April 2013.
Representatives of the external auditor were present at the Mrs Claydon was appointed to the Committee in August meetings held in February 2013 and 2014 and November 2013.
Details of their qualifications and experience are given 2013.
I report to the Board after each meeting on the main on page s 26 and 27. matters discussed at the meeting.
In summary, the main matters dealt with at these meetings were as follows: The role of the Committee is to assist the directors in Assessment of the controls to ensure the ownership, applying financial reporting and internal control principles valuation and liquidity of investments: this includes and to maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups assessing management reports on the controls and auditor.
The Committees role and responsibilities are set out procedures of external managers and the external in its terms of reference, which comply with the UK Corporate custodian administrator and the review of the audit Governance Code.
The terms of reference are available on work performed.
No significant issues were identified.
request from the Company Secretary and can be seen on the Companys website www.
In summary, the Interim and year end reporting, in the light of the Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the requirements of the revised Code of Corporate Companys financial statements, including consideration of Governance issued by the{AIC, the Financial Reporting the Companys accounting policies and significant reporting Councils revised Guidance on Audit Committees and judgements.
It reviews the Companys internal financial the requirement for{a Strategic Report.
The Committee controls and risk management systems using an external agreed the process, timing and responsibility for consultant where appropriate.
compliance, and in particular ensured that there was a fuller explanation of the impact of the Companys use of derivatives.
42 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Committee approved the proposed audit fee.
There is a A variety of more detailed matters including internal controls, whistleblowing, anti-money laundering rule that a specified engagement of the auditor to provide non-audit services cannot exceed 50% of the annual audit compliance, data protection and business continuity.
As noted in note 5 on In the light of the relative simplicity of the operations page 68, the Committee approved the appointment of and the use of independent external consultants to Deloitte LLP to provide advice on one-off withholding tax advise on regulatory compliance and adherence to claims for a fee of 15,000.
The appointment, which was internal procedures, it was concluded that no internal made on a one-off basis, was awarded on a competitive basis audit function was required see page 41. and the Committee satisfied itself that Deloittes audit team and tax advisory team were independent of each other.
External audit The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of the Financial Statements audit process, including agreeing the auditors assessments The Board has requested the Committee to confirm that in of materiality, and monitors the auditors independence and its opinion the Board can make the required statement that objectivity.
It conducted a formal review of the performance the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and of the auditor during the year and concluded that understandable and provides the information necessary performance was satisfactory and there were no grounds for for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, change.
The Committee has given this confirmation on the basis of its review of the whole Deloitte & Touche, a predecessor firm of Deloitte LLP, was document, underpinned by involvement in the planning first appointed as the Companys auditor in March 1997. for its preparation, review of the processes to assure the The audit was subject to competitive tender in 2007, at accuracy of factual content, and by assurances from the which time Deloitte LLP was reappointed.
T he Committee Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
reviews the performance of the auditors annually.
Relevant guidance on audit rotation will be complied with when this Approval has been finalised.
This report was approved by the Committee on 10 March 2014 and is signed on its behalf by: Robert Boyle Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 1 March 2014 Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 43
