Corporate governance statement continued Directors Remuneration As described elsewhere, the management of Witans The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors portfolio is outsourced to a number of third party investment Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 54. managers around the world.
There are currently 11 such investment managers as well as the Direct Holdings portfolio Accountability and Audit which is managed by the Chief Executive Officer.
The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 55.
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for a number of aspects of the management of the portfolio, including asset The report of the independent auditor is set out on page s 56 allocation, gearing and investment in derivatives.
The Board to 59. has set guidelines in respect of each of these aspects within which he may operate.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to The Board has delegated contractually to external the Board regularly on each of these areas, as well as on the agents, including the various investment managers, the overall performance of the Company and other matters management of the investment portfolio, global custody of significance.
which includes the safeguarding of the assets, the investment administration, management and financial Witans in-house executive management team is responsible accounting, company secretarial and certain other for managing and controlling the relationships with the third administrative requirements and the registration services.
The management team receives monthly Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper reports on investment and compliance matters from each consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the manager.
During 2013, the investment managers were services offered, including the control systems in operation in asked to provide detailed information on their operational so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board structures and systems.
The Board also receives each year receives and considers regular reports from the investment from its investment managers reports on their internal managers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied controls: in most cases these include a report from the to{the Board from its other contractors as required.
relevant companys auditors on the control policies and procedures in operation.
Internal Control The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, The Chief Executive Officer makes regular reports to the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Board on the performance of and activity within the Direct Company.
This process accords with the Turnbull guidance, Holdings portfolio.
In addition, the portfolios performance is is subject to regular review by the Audit Committee and was independently measured by WM Performance Services, along fully in place during the year under review and up to the date with those of the third party managers.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys system of internal control and has conducted its The Companys subsidiary, Witan Investment Services annual review of the effectiveness of the system, covering all Limited, is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct the controls, including financial, operational and compliance Authority to provide investment products and services.
controls and risk management systems.
This review took into The compliance structures required for these activities, account points raised during the year in the regular appraisal including a compliance manual and a compliance monitoring of specific areas of risk.
However, such a system is designed programme, have been duly put into place.
to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in reasonable and not absolute assurance against material confidence any concerns about possible improprieties, misstatement or loss.
whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for appropriate independent investigation.
Its staff comprises In accordance with provisions C2 and C3 of the Corporate only six people including the Chief Executive Officer, who Governance Code the Board reviews the Companys business are well known to and have frequent formal and informal risks at least once a year.
These are analysed and recorded in contact with the members of the Board.
The Company receives from its main contractors formal reports which detail the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
40 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
