228467 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp36 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 30 30 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Report of the Directors.
COMPLIANCE term as recommended by provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and principle 3 of the AIC Code.
The Board The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of has agreed that all Directors of the Company will seek the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code of re-election annually.
Mr Anthony Townsend, however, will not Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC be seeking re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
Guide, both of which can be found on the AIC website INTERNAL AUDIT www.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, As the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance parties and has no employees, the Board has determined that Code the UK Governance Code as well as setting out additional there are no requirements for an internal audit function.
The principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific Board reviews annually whether a function equivalent to an relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting internal audit is needed and it will continue to monitor its against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and systems of internal controls in order to provide assurance that by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK they operate as intended.
Governance Code, provides better information to shareholders.
A copy of the UK Governance Code can be found at www.
BOARD INDEPENDENCE, COMPOSITION AND TENURE The Board has noted the recommendations of the UK Corporate Sir Martin Smith as Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Governance Code published in October 2012 applicable for Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, financial years beginning after 1 October 2012 and will duly currently consists of seven non-executive Directors.
The Directors report on these recommendations in the Companys 2014 biographical details, set out on page 18, demonstrate a breadth Annual Report.
of investment, commercial and professional experience.
The Board considers that it has managed its affairs throughout Mr Anthony Townsend has been designated as the Senior the year ended 31 March 2013 in compliance with the Independent Director who can act as a sounding board for the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions Chairman and also acts as an intermediary for the other Directors of the UK Governance Code, except as set out below: when necessary.
Mr Townsend will not be seeking re-election at the role of the chief executive: this years Annual General Meeting.
He will be succeeded as the executive directors remuneration: Senior Independent Director by Jo Dixon.
The Directors review their independence annually.
the need for an internal audit function: and the Chairman of the Company acting as Chairman of the Samuel D. Isaly is Managing Partner of OrbiMed, the Companys Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee.
Investment Manager, and has also served on the Board for over nine years.
Mr Isaly is therefore not considered to be an For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to Independent Director.
Ms Jo Dixon and Mr Townsend have also the AIC Code, the Board considers the first three provisions served on the Board for nine years.
The Board subscribes to the mentioned above are not relevant to the position of the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving Directors Company, being an externally managed investment trust.
The should not be prevented from forming part of an independent Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these majority.
It does not consider that a Directors tenure necessarily provisions.
With regard to the Chairman of the Company acting reduces his or her ability to act independently and, following as the Chairman of the Management Engagement and formal performance evaluations, believes that, with the exception Remuneration Committee, the Board considers this to be of Samuel D. Isaly, each of the Directors is independent in appropriate in light of the remit of the Committee.
Further character and judgment and that there are no relationships or details covering the Committee can be found on page 32. circumstances which are likely to effect their judgment.
Sir Martin In view of its non-executive nature, the Board considers that it is Smith and Dr David Holbrook joined the Board in 2007 and are not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified both considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board has Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp36 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 31 Corporate Governance 31 Corporate Governance continued considered the position of Ms Dixon, Sir Martin Smith, Mr Isaly and policy.
It also has responsibility for all corporate strategy issues, Dr Holbrook as part of the evaluation process, and believes that it dividend policy, share issuance and buy-back policy, gearing, share would be in the Companys best interests to propose them for reprice and discount premium monitoring and corporate election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
To enable them to discharge their Bates and Mr Doug McCutcheon were appointed directors with responsibilities, prior to each meeting the Directors are provided, effect from 22 May 2013 and 7 November 2012 respectively and in a timely manner, with a comprehensive set of papers giving they will be seeking election at this years Annual General Meeting.
detailed information on the Companys transactions, financial They are both considered to be independent by the Board.
In line position and performance.
Representatives of the Manager and with the Companys strong commitment to its corporate Investment Manager attend each Board meeting, enabling the governance responsibilities, the Board regularly reviews its Directors to seek clarification on specific issues or to probe further performance and composition to ensure it has the correct mix of on matters of concern: a full written report is also received from relevant skills and experience for the good conduct of the the Manager and Investment Manager at each quarterly meeting.
As part of this process the Board has agreed In light of these reports, the Board gives direction to the a programme of refreshment, which will see its membership Investment Manager with regard to the Companys investment change as current Directors retire in an orderly manner, and new objectives and guidelines.
Within these established guidelines, the Directors are appointed.
Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
New Directors are appointed with the expectation that they will There is an agreed procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of serve for a minimum period of three years.
Any Director may their duties, to take independent professional advice, if resign in writing to the Board at any time.
The terms of their necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Directors have access appointment are detailed in a letter sent to them when they join to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, through its the Board.
These letters are available for inspection at the offices of appointed representative, who is responsible to the Board for the Companys Manager and will be available at the Annual ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, they are provided with all relevant information regarding the BOARD EVALUATION Company and their duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In During the year under review, the performance of the Board, addition, a new Director will also spend time with representatives Committees and individual Directors was evaluated through a of the Manager and Investment Manager in order to learn more formal assessment process led by Mr Anthony Townsend, as the about their processes and procedures.
The Chairman also regularly Senior Independent Director.
The review concluded that the reviews the training and development needs of each Director.
The Board worked in a collegiate, efficient and effective manner.
The Board receives regular briefings from, amongst others, the results of the external independent evaluation process, Auditors and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed conducted by Board Alpha, were presented to and discussed by developments or changes in laws or regulations that could affect the Board in March 2012 and, as a result, it was agreed that the the Company and or the Directors.
current Directors contributed effectively and that all had the skills and experience which are relevant to the leadership and THE BOARDS RESPONSIBILITIES direction of the Company.
It has been agreed that an external The Board is responsible for efficient and effective leadership of the independent evaluation of the Board will be held every three Company and regularly reviews the schedule of matters reserved years.
The Board meets at least on a quarterly basis and at other times as necessary.
The Board is responsible for all aspects of CONFLICT OF INTEREST the Companys affairs, including the setting of parameters for and It is a statutory requirement that a Director must avoid a the monitoring of investment strategy, the review of investment situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect performance including peer group performance and investment interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp36 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 32 32 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued Companys interests a situational conflict.
The Companys the Chairman of the Company, Sir Martin Smith, and the Audit Articles of Association have been amended to give the Directors Committee by Jo Dixon.
authority to approve such situations, where appropriate.
The table overleaf details the number of Board and Committee It is the responsibility of each individual Director to avoid an meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were unauthorised conflict situation arising.
He or she must request four Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, one authorisation from the Board as soon as he or she becomes meeting of the Nominations Committee and one meeting of aware of the possibility of a situational conflict arising.
the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee.
The Board is responsible for considering Directors requests for NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE authorisation of situational conflicts and for deciding whether The Nominations Committee is responsible for the Board they should be authorised.
The factors to be considered will appraisal process and for making recommendations to the Board include whether the situational conflict could prevent the on the appointment of new Directors.
Where appropriate, each Director from performing his or her duties, whether it has, or Director is invited to submit nominations and external advisers could have, any impact on the Company and whether it could may be used to identify potential candidates.
be regarded as likely to affect the judgment and or actions of MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT AND the Director in question.
When the Board is deciding whether to REMUNERATION COMMIT TEE authorise a conflict or potential conflict, only Directors who The level of Directors fees is reviewed on a regular basis relative have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take to other comparable investment companies and in the light of the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the Directors Directors responsibilities.
Neither the Chairman nor individual must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely Directors participate in discussions involving personal to promote the Companys success.
The Directors are able to remuneration.
Details of the fees paid to the Directors in the impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they year under review are detailed in the Directors Remuneration think this is appropriate in the circumstances.
A register of conflicts is maintained by the Company Secretary This committee also reviews the terms of engagement of the and is reviewed at quarterly Board meetings, to ensure that any Investment Manager, the Manager and the Companys other authorised conflicts remain appropriate.
Directors are required service providers.
to confirm at these meetings whether there has been any change to their position.
The Directors must also comply with the statutory rules requiring company directors to declare any interest in an actual or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD During the year the Board delegated certain responsibilities and functions to committees.
Copies of the full terms of reference, which clearly define the responsibilities of each Committee, can be obtained from the Company Secretary, will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting, and can be found at the Companys website at www.
The membership of the Companys committees comprises those Directors considered independent by the Board.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Anthony Townsend, the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee by Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp36 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 33 Corporate Governance 33 Corporate Governance continued MEETING ATTENDANCE The number of meetings held during the year of the Board and its Committees, and each Directors attendance level, is shown below: Management Engagement and Audit Nominations Remuneration Type and number of meetings Board Committee Committee Committee held in 2012 13 4 2 1 1 Sir Martin Smith 4 2 1 1 Sarah Bates appointed on 22 May 2013 Jo Dixon 4 2 1 1 Professor Duncan Geddes retired on 17 July 2012 1 0 Dr David Holbrook 4 2 1 1 Samuel D. Isaly 4 Doug McCutcheon appointed on 7 November 2012 2111 Anthony Townsend 4 2 1 1 All of the serving Directors attended the Annual General Meeting held on 17 July 2012.
Sir Martin Smith was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee on 17 July 2012.
Mr Isaly is not a member of the Audit, Management Engagement & Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
AUDIT COMMITTEE THE BRIBERY ACT 2010 The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is The Board has adopted a zero tolerance approach to instances of responsible for the review of the interim and annual financial bribery and corruption.
Accordingly it expressly prohibits any statements, the nature and scope of the external audit and the Director or associated persons when acting on behalf of the findings therefrom and the terms of appointment of the Auditors, Company, from accepting, soliciting, paying, offering or promising including their remuneration and the provision of any non-audit to pay or authorise any payment, public or private in the UK or services by them.
abroad to secure any improper benefit for themselves or for the Company.
The Audit Committee meets representatives of the Manager and Investment Manager and their Compliance Officers who report as The Board applies the same Standards to its service providers in to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the their activities for the Company.
regulatory environment in which the Company, Manager and A copy of the Companys Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy can Investment Manager operate.
The Companys external Auditors be found on its website at www.
also attend meetings of this Committee at its request and report on their work procedures and their findings in relation to the BOARD DIVERSITY Companys statutory audit.
They also have the opportunity to The Company welcomes the objectives of the Davies Report to meet with the Committee without representatives of the Manager improve the performance of Corporate boards by encouraging the or the Investment Manager being present.
The Audit Committee appointment of the best people from a range of differing reviews the need for non-audit services to be provided by the perspectives and backgrounds.
The Company recognises the auditor and authorises such on a case by case basis, having benefits of diversity on the board, including gender, and takes this into account in its board appointments.
The Company is committed consideration to the cost effectiveness of the services and the to ensuring that any Director search processes actively seek persons independence and objectivity of the Auditors.
Non-audit fees of with the right qualifications so that appointments can be made, on 8,000 were paid to Ernst & Young LLP during the year for agreed the basis of merit, against objective criteria from a diverse selection upon procedures in relation to the Companys option positions, of candidates.
To this end the Board will continue to dedicate time performance fee review and tax services.
The Board has to consider diversity during any director search process.
concluded, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, that the Auditors continued to be independent and that their reappointment be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp36 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 34 34 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued INTERNAL CONTROLS review of communication methods and procedures: and The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal assessment of the control procedures.
control which is designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that financial The key procedures which have been established to provide information used within the business, or published, is reliable.
internal financial controls are as follows: However, such a system can only be designed to manage rather investment management is provided by OrbiMed Capital LLC.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and The Board is responsible for setting the overall investment therefore can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance policy and monitors the actions of the Investment Manager at against fraud, material misstatement or loss.
regular Board meeting: Risk assessment and the review of internal controls are undertaken administration, company secretarial and marketing duties for by the Board in the context of the Companys overall investment the Company are performed by Frostrow Capital LLP: objective.
The review covers the key business, operational, compliance and financial risks facing the Company.
In arriving at its custody of assets is undertaken by Goldman Sachs & Co. New judgment of what risks the Company faces, the Board has York: considered the Companys operations in the light of the the Board clearly defines the duties and responsibilities of their following factors: agents and advisers.
The appointment of agents and advisers the nature and extent of risks which it regards as acceptable to the Company is conducted by the Board after consideration for the Company to bear within its overall business of the quality of the parties involved: the Board monitors their objective: ongoing performance and contractual arrangements: the threat of such risks becoming a reality: and mandates for authorisation of investment transactions and the Companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact expense payments are set by the Board: and of risk on its performance.
the Board reviews financial information produced by the Against this background, the Board has split the review of risk Investment Manager and the Manager in detail on a regular and associated controls into five sections reflecting the nature basis.
of the risks being addressed.
These sections are as follows: All of the Companys management functions are performed by corporate strategy: third parties whose internal controls are reviewed by the Board or investment activity: on its behalf by Frostrow Capital LLP.
published information, compliance with laws and In accordance with guidance issued to directors of listed regulations: companies, the Turnbull Guidance the Directors confirm that they have carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of service providers: and internal financial control during the year and up to the date of financial activity.
approval of the financial statements, as set out above.
The Company has appointed Frostrow Capital LLP to provide Company management, Company secretarial and administrative RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS services to the Company.
The Company has obtained from its The Board reviews the shareholder register at each Board meeting.
various service providers assurances and information relating to The Company has regular contact with its institutional their internal systems and controls to enable the Board to make an shareholders particularly through the Manager.
The Board appropriate risk and control assessment, including the following: supports the principle that the Annual General Meeting be used to communicate with private investors.
The full Board attends the details of the control environment in operation: Annual General Meeting under the Chairmanship of the Chairman identification and evaluation of risks and control objectives: Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp30-pp36 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 35 Corporate Governance 35 Corporate Governance continued of the Board.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting and The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the are also published on the Companys website at financial statements is set out on page 29.
Representatives from the Investment Auditors is set out on pages 39 and 40.
The Board has delegated to Manager attend the Annual General Meeting and give a external agencies, including the Manager and the Investment presentation on investment matters to those present.
The Manager, the management of the portfolio, custodial services Company has adopted a nominee share code which is set out which includes the safeguarding of the Companys assets, the below.
day to day marketing, accounting administration, company secretarial requirements and registration services.
Each of these The Board receives marketing and public relations reports from contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Manager to whom the marketing function has been the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including delegated.
The Board reviews and considers the marketing plans the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the of the Manager on a regular basis.
The Board receives and considers regular The annual and interim financial reports, the interim management reports from the Manager and the Investment Manager and ad statements and a monthly fact sheet are available to all hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
The Board considers the format of the annual and interim financial reports so as to ensure they are useful to all NOMINEE SHARE CODE shareholders and others taking an interest in the Company.
In Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the accordance with best practice, the annual report, including the Company undertakes: Notice of the Annual General Meeting, is sent to shareholders at to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are shareholder communications, so long as an indication of proposed for substantive issues.
quantities has been provided in advance: to allow investors holding shares through a nominee EXERCISE OF VOTING POWERS company to attend general meetings, provided the correct The Board has delegated authority to the Investment Manager to authority from the nominee company is available: and vote the shares owned by the Company that are held on its behalf by its custodian, Goldman Sachs & Co. New York.
The Board has that investors in the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme or ISA are instructed that the Investment Manager submit votes for such automatically sent shareholder communications, including shares wherever possible.
This accords with current best practice details of general meetings, together with a form of direction whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
The to facilitate voting and to seek authority to attend.
Investment Manager may refer to the Board on any matters of a Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary contentious nature.
The Company does not retain voting rights on authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys any shares that are subject to rehypothecation in connection with general meetings.
the loan facility provided by Goldman Sachs & Co. New York.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
