CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 56 Corporate governance Statement by the Chairman of the Compliance Corporate Governance Committee, Mark Bankes Dear shareholders I am presenting the Corporate Governance Report in my capacity as the Chairman of the Compliance Corporate Governance Committee, a committee established by the Board of the Company whose primary function is to make recommendations to the Board on matters such as: a the formulation or reformulation of, and implementation, maintenance and monitoring of the Companys Corporate Compliance Programme and Code of Conduct: and b the Companys activities in the area of corporate compliance that may impact the business operations or public image, in light of applicable government and industry standards, legal and business trends and public policy issues.
The Company is incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The Company applies Mark Bankes the United Kingdoms 2012 Corporate Governance Code.
The Listing Rules also Chairman of the Compliance require a company to confirm that it has complied with all relevant provisions of Corporate Governance Committee the Corporate Governance Code or explain areas of noncompliance.
The Board is committed to adhering to the Corporate Governance Code and disclosing clearly, with suitable explanation, any noncompliance.
In addition the Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the best practice recommendations of the Toronto Stock Exchange and the best practice recommendations prescribed under National Policy 58201 Corporate Governance Guidelines NP 58201, for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The report also includes the key areas the Board has focused on during the year, from a corporate governance perspective, together with details of the roles of the key Board members and an assessment on the effectiveness of the Board.
The matters relating to the combination of the roles of Chairman CEO and the independence of the Chairman have been specifically addressed by the non executive directors and reported on below.
The non executive directors, believe that the format of the Board, in conjunction with the activities of the various board committees, and the open debate which exists allowing any director to engage executive management on policy, performance and risk management is sufficient to allow them to effectively monitor the performance of management and develop proposals on strategy.
Mark Bankes Chairman of the Compliance Corporate Governance Committee 21 March 2014 Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 57 Compliance statement In addition, it is noted that in the case of the Directors Remuneration Report, the disclosures have exceeded the Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, the obligations on the Company, however, such disclosures are Company has been in compliance with the provisions set considered appropriate to allow comparison with other UK out in the Corporate Governance Code with the exception incorporated FTSE 350 listed companies.
of the following matters: How the Board of Directors operates The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO were both exercised by Josef ElRaghy.
The Company, led by its directors, sets and implements the strategic aims and values of the Company, providing The Board continues on an ongoing basis to assess the strategic direction to management.
The specific matters options for ensuring that the Company has the right reserved for the Board are set out in the Board Charter leadership to best further its future development and which was last updated in December 2013 which is at present the Board believes that there is no urgent available on the Companys website at www.
requirement to fill the CEO position.
In arriving at this The matters reserved for the Board provides sufficient decision the Board has taken into account the degree and power to agree on significant matters affecting the Group, breadth of experience brought to the senior management these can be viewed under the following headings in the team by Chief Operating Officer, Andrew Pardey, Chief Board Charter: Financial Officer, Pierre Louw and Head of Business Development and Investor Relations, Andy Davidson, strategy and management: as well as the requirements of the Code.
In relation to the structure and capital: Code, the Board believes the interests of shareholders financial reporting and controls: continue to be best served by the current arrangement and significant contracts: that the Company is not at risk from an undue concentration of decisionmaking authority by the temporary combination stakeholder communication: of the Chairman and CEO roles.
In reaching this conclusion, board membership and appointment: the Board has taken into consideration the strong presence remuneration: of highly experienced independent non executive corporate governance: directors on the Board and the structure of the Board delegation of authority: and Committees designed to devolve away from the Chairman the responsibility and control of certain key areas of company policies.
As indicated by the table below, the Board has established Furthermore, for so long as the roles remain combined, Audit and Risk, Compliance Corporate Governance, certain corporate governance functions undertaken by Josef Nomination, Remuneration and Health Safety Environmental ElRaghy in his capacity as Chairman will be delegated to and Sustainability committees.
The Board has delegated the Senior Independent Non Executive Director.
These certain matters to the Committees which can be viewed functions include chairing Board meetings, ensuring that the in their respective charters which can all be found on the Board receives timely information and ensuring the efficient Companys website at www.
organisation and conduct of the Board.
It should also be noted that both the Corporate Governance Code and the best practice recommendations favour that the Chairman be an independent director, however, Josef ElRaghy is not an independent non executive Chairman within the meaning of the Code.
Again, given the expanded role of the Senior Independent Non Executive Director, the non executive directors consider this matter has been appropriately dealt with.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 58 Corporate governance continued Key board roles The Senior Independent Non Executive Director held meetings with the non executive directors without the The key roles and the respective responsibilities are set out executive directors present, providing feedback to the in the table below.
These meetings focused Chairman CEO Josef ElRaghy primarily on the evaluation of the Boards performance, Duties operational Duties as CEO strategic a performance evaluation of the Chairman CEO as well as staffing at senior levels, reporting flows and strategic issues Manage the team of Develop and implement, executives and the Groups short, medium and such as geographical diversification.
business on a daytoday longterm corporate The Board recognises the requirements of the Code basis.
in appointing an external facilitator to evaluate the Ensure appropriate risk Assessment of new business management policies in opportunities.
In June 2013, the Institute place and implemented.
of Directors carried out an evaluation of the Board and Communication Efficient and effective with shareholders of the findings were reviewed and accepted by the non operation of the Group.
Regular reporting to the Representing the Group Board appointments and independence Board.
to key suppliers and government authorities.
There have been no Board appointments during the Facilitate the effective contribution of directors Promote the highest course of 2013.
The Company remains compliant with at Board meetings.
standards of corporate the principles of the Code to the extent that it dictates governance.
the Board should have a greater number of non executive Senior Independent Non Executive Director Edward Haslam directors than executive directors.
Main duties Additional duties delegated When determining whether a director is independent, by the Chairman CEO the Board has established a Directors Test of Independence Intermediary between Leadership of the Board to Policy, which is based predominantly on the definition executive directors and ensure its effectiveness in non executive directors.
all aspects of setting the of independence as defined in Canadian Securities Boards agenda.
Convene and chair Administrators National Instrument 52110 Audit meetings of the non Efficient organisation of Committees NI 52110, and is available on the executive directors without the Boards functioning and Companys website or to shareholders upon request.
the Chairman CEO ensuring the Board behaves The criteria in NI 52110 are mandatory and are more present.
in accordance with the stringent in certain respects than the independence criteria Code of Conduct.
Meet with major suggested by the Code.
Based on this policy, the majority of shareholders to understand Ensuring the directors the Board are considered by the Board to be independent their concerns and ensuring receive accurate and good communication flows timely information.
The Company has considered certain recommendations Independent non executive directors put forward in the UK in respect of gender diversity on the Main duties Encouraged to: boards of listed companies but has not adopted a formal Participate as a member Challenge and help develop policy in this regard.
The Board believes that a board of the Board and the Groups strategy performs well, providing the individuals have a range of certain committees.
perspectives and backgrounds with appointments made Monitor the performance of Regularly refresh skills and on merit, having attracted the best qualified persons for management.
Based on our experience, to date, the availability Be satisfied of the adequacy Seek clarification of women with the required experience within the mining and integrity of financial or and information or other reporting.
industry has not been encouraging: however, this matter is Be satisfied there are Address any concerns and kept under constant review.
adequate systems of to the extent not resolved, Detailed separately in the CSR Report is a summary of internal control.
raise the matter at the Board.
the social conditions in Egypt and the Middle East which Determine appropriate levels of remuneration for provide an explanation as to the gender diversity in executive directors.
Detailed knowledge of the Groups activities is essential and during the year a site visit was arranged for all the non executive directors, allowing them to experience and understand the operation at Sukari first hand.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 59 Balance of the Board executive directors, assisted by the senior management, are responsible for: As well as independence, the experience and professional background is essential for an effective Board, as developing corporate strategy, performance objectives, shown below: business plans and budgets for review and approval by the Board: and Independence Professional background managing the risk and compliance frameworks, reporting to the Board on significant breaches or updates to policies and procedures.
The CEO Chairman is responsible for ensuring senior management properly discharge the responsibilities delegated to them and keeping the Board informed on these matters.
executive directors Legal Full details of the risk evaluation and risk mitigation are detailed in the Audit and Risk Report.
non executive Mining geology directors Performance evaluation engineering In order to ensure that the Board continues to discharge its Political responsibilities in an appropriate manner, the performance Accounting of all directors is constantly reviewed by the Chairman CEO.
The Company deployed a formal process for evaluation Management of the Board, the Board members, Board committees and Directorship the Chairman during the relevant period led by the Senior Independent Non Executive Director.
The blend of behaviours and skills around the Board table The Board has also had training sessions on various topics are well suited to deliver the Companys strategic objectives.
Board in action The Company has established a Remuneration Policy The following areas and activity highlight the areas of focus which sets out the structure of the remuneration of key for the Board during 2013: senior management, executive directors and non executive Strategic planning directors.
The Board has also established a Selection, Appointment and ReAppointment of Directors Policy which The Board regularly review and approves strategic plans and initiatives put forward by management and the executive, details the procedures for the selection, appointment, including geographical diversification.
reappointment and evaluation of the Companys directors.
Communications All compensation arrangements for executive directors and The Board oversees the Companys public communications with senior management are determined and reviewed by the shareholders and other interested parties and stakeholders.
Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board, after Risk assessment taking into account the current competitive arrangements The Board has primary responsibility to identify principal risks prevailing in the market.
in the Companys business and ensure the implementation of appropriate systems to manage these risks.
The principal risks The performance of executive directors and senior affecting the Group are set out in the MD&A.
management is evaluated by the Remuneration Committee, Internal control often taking into account recommendations from the The Board, with assistance from the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman CEO.
The Board can exercise its discretion in oversees the Groups internal control and management relation to approving incentives, bonuses and options information systems.
and can recommend changes to the Committees recommendations.
Managing risks The Board is responsible for satisfying itself that Details of the performance criteria, performance management has developed and implemented a sound evaluation and executive director and non executive system of risk management and internal control.
Assisted director remuneration are set out in the Directors by the Audit and Risk Committee, management report to Remuneration Report.
the Board on the Groups key risks and the extent to which The Board expects that the remuneration structure will result they believe these risks are being appropriately managed in the Company being able to attract and retain the best and mitigated.
senior management and executive directors to manage the As a matter of practice, and in line with the Groups Group.
It will also provide the necessary incentives to grow approach to financial and risk management, the longterm shareholder value.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 60 Corporate governance continued Board composition and reelection The Board of Directors It is proposed at the date of this annual report that all At the date of this report the Board is made up of a directors will be put forward for reelection at the AGM in Chairman CEO, an executive director and five independent May 2014.
Trevor Schultz, currently holding the position of Non Executive directors.
All the directors who served executive director, is due to stand down as an executive throughout the year and the names of the directors director and take up the position as a non executive and their qualifications and experience are set out on director prior to the AGM in 2014, which will coincide with pages 52 and 53. the successful hand over of the Stage 4 commissioning to The following table sets out the number of Board and operations.
The services and valuable experience of Trevor Committee meetings held during the year and the number Schultz will therefore be retained by the Company.
of meetings attended by each director.
All directors are subject to annual reelection.
Health, safety, Compliance and environmental and corporate Remuneration Non executive Board Audit and risk sustainability governance nomination Edward Haslam Attended C. Attended Attended Attended C. 9 of 9 10 of 11 6 of 6 6 of 6 Mark Arnesen Attended Attended C. Attended Attended 9 of 9 11 of 11 5 of 5 6 of 6 Mark Bankes Attended Attended Attended Attended C. 9 of 9 11 of 11 5 of 5 6 of 6 Bob Bowker Attended Attended C. Attended Attended 9 of 9 5 of 5 6 of 6 6 of 6 Kevin Tomlinson Attended Attended Attended 9 of 9 5 of 5 6 of 6 Executive Josef ElRaghy Attended C. 9 of 9 Trevor Schultz Attended 8 of 9 Edward Haslam chaired the majority of the Board meetings in line with the delegation of certain of Josef ElRaghys roles to the Senior Independent Non Executive Director.
Certain decisions were agreed by written resolution and these have not been included in the statistics above.
Board committees The Remuneration Report includes a full description of the role of the committee acting on behalf of the Board and the The Board committees are a valuable part of the activity carried out during the year.
The workload of the Board committees is far greater than the table of Nomination Committee scheduled meetings would indicate, as ad hoc meetings The Nomination Committee comprises Edward Haslam and communications between meetings frequently require Chairman, Mark Arnesen, Bob Bowker and Kevin considerable amounts of time from the non executive Tomlinson, all of whom are independent non executive directors.
Details of the activity of the committees is set directors of the Company.
out below or where indicated in the other sections of the annual report.
The Nomination Committees primary functions are to: Audit and Risk Committee Make recommendations for the structure, size and As at the date of this report, the Audit and Risk Committee composition of the Board and Board committees: comprises Mark Arnesen Chairman, Mark Bankes and Assist with the alignment of directorships held within the Edward Haslam, all of whom are considered by the Board to Groups subsidiary companies: be independent within the terms of Groups Directors Test Review the necessary and desirable competencies, skills, of Independence Policy.
knowledge and experience of directors: The Audit and Risk Committee Report includes a full Review the Board succession plans: and description of the role of the committee acting on behalf of Make recommendations for the appointment, reelection the Board and the activity carried out during the year.
and removal of directors to from the Board.
Remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee established guidelines for the The Remuneration Committee comprises Edward Haslam future nomination and selection of potential new directors.
Chairman, Mark Arnesen, Bob Bowker and Kevin The full Board subject to members voting rights in general Tomlinson.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 61 meeting is ultimately responsible for selection of new Health Safety Environmental and directors and will have regard to a candidates experience Sustainability Committee and competence in areas such as mining, exploration, The Health Safety Environmental and Sustainability geology, finance, administration and other areas of Committee comprises Bob Bowker Chairman, Mark relevance that can assist the Group in meeting its corporate Arnesen, Mark Bankes and Kevin Tomlinson, all of whom are objectives and plans.
independent non executive directors of the Company.
After the year end, the Board proposed the change in role The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 26 of Trevor Schultz from the position of executive director to to 29 includes a full description of the role of the committee non executive director.
The move ensures the knowledge, acting on behalf of the Board and the activity carried out experience and expertise of Trevor Schultz is retained, after during the year.
the completion and successful hand over of the Stage 4 Shareholder communication processing plant.
The role of Trevor Schultz as non executive All shareholders are encouraged to find the time to attend director had the full support of the members of the our AGM on 16 May 2014, which will be held in Jersey.
This will be an excellent opportunity to meet Board Within the remit of the Nomination Committee, the members and our senior management team.
requirement to ensure adequate succession planning is routinely discussed.
Reviews of management The Board of Directors aims to ensure that shareholders capabilities and potential are performed on a routine are provided with important information in a timely manner basis and resources allocated to assist with this continued through written and electronic communications.
this reason that the Company established a Shareholder Communications Policy, through: Compliance Corporate Governance Committee The Compliance Corporate Governance Committee the annual report: is chaired by Mark Bankes and its other members are the annual information form: Edward Haslam and Bob Bowker.
the availability of the Companys quarterly report and The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its fiduciary halfyearly report: responsibilities by making recommendations to the adherence to continuous disclosure requirements: Board with respect to the formulation or reformulation webcasts of the Companys quarterly results: of and implementation, maintenance and monitoring the Annual General Meeting and other meetings called of the Companys programme to ensure compliance to obtain shareholder approval for Board action as with corporate governance policies and legal rules appropriate: and and regulations.
the provision of the Companys website containing all of Fundamental to the Companys policy and procedures on the above mentioned reports and its constant update corporate governance is that all directors and employees and maintenance.
reflect the Companys key values of accountability, fairness, integrity and openness.
This committee oversees the The Chairman CEO and other directors, communicate with Companys activities in the area of corporate compliance major shareholders on a regular basis in the way of face to that may impact the Companys business operations face contact, telephone conversations, and through analyst or public image, in light of applicable government and and broker briefings, to help better understand the views of industry standards, legal and business trends and public the shareholders.
Any material feedback is then discussed at policy issues.
The main activities carried out by the Committee during the The Board recognises the importance of keeping the year include: market fully informed of the Groups activities and of communicating openly and clearly with all stakeholders.
assessing the Companys compliance with laws and The Company has established a formal Continuous regulations including those required incountry, Disclosure Policy to ensure that this occurs.
The Policy is particularly in Egypt and Ethiopia : designed to ensure compliance with the listing rules in all monitoring the Companys systems and controls jurisdictions in which the Company is listed.
including a review of the policies, procedures and roll out of procedures to the business and employees : review of progress in respect to the Concession Agreement CA hearing and the DFO litigation: and review of reporting requirements and reports prepared by management as required by the LSE and TSX.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 62 Corporate governance continued Shareholder communication continued Securities Trading Policy In accordance with this policy, Company information The Company has adopted a formal Securities Trading considered to be material and which requires Policy restricting directors, senior executives and other announcement is announced immediately to the LSE and employees from acting on material information until it TSX.
All key communications are placed immediately on the has been released to the market in accordance with the Company website, and when necessary, provided directly requirements of continuous disclosure.
Directors and senior to shareholders.
As a premium listed company on the management of premium listed companies on the LSE are Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, the Company restricted in a number of ways, by statute, common law and also complies with the various obligations imposed on by the Model Code in relation to dealings in the Companys it pursuant to the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency securities.
This imposes restrictions beyond those imposed Rules DTRs.
by law to ensure that the directors and certain employees and persons connected with them do not abuse and do not Commitment to stakeholders and ethical standards place themselves under suspicion of abusing pricesensitive The Board supports the highest standards of corporate information that they have or are thought to have, governance and requires its members and the management especially in periods leading up to announcement of results and staff of the Company to act with integrity and close periods.
objectivity in relation to: Statement by the Chief Executive Officer compliance with laws and regulations affecting the and Chief Financial Officer Groups operations: The Board receives written assurance from the Chief listing rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code, and Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to confirm NP 58201: that to the best of their knowledge and belief, the Groups employment practices: financial position presents a true and fair view and that the financial statements are founded on a sound system of risk responsibilities to the community: management, internal compliance and control.
Further, it is responsibilities to individuals: confirmed that the Groups risk management and internal the environment: compliance is operating efficiently and effectively.
The conflict of interests: Board notes that due to its nature, internal control assurance from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer confidentiality: can only be reasonable rather than absolute, and therefore ensuring that shareholders and the financial community is not and cannot be designed to detect all weaknesses in are at all times fully informed in accordance with the control procedures.
spirit and letter of the Model Code and the Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument 51102: Shareholder resolutions corporate opportunities or opportunities arising from After the year end, additional share securities were issued these for personal gain or to compete with the Group: for the purpose of acquiring Ampella Mining Ltd, which was made possible by the resolution approved at the protection of and proper use of the Groups assets: and 2013 AGM authorising the issue of further securities, active promotion of ethical behaviour.
for purposes such as this recommended takeover offer.
The continued support of the Companys shareholders in The Company has a formal Code of Conduct, which all this way is recognised and valued by the Board and allows directors, employees and contractors are required to the Company to further expand and meet the Companys observe, and a range of corporate policies which detail the longterm objectives.
framework for acceptable corporate behaviour.
These set out the procedures that personnel are required to follow in a range of areas, including compliance with the law, dealing with conflicts of interest, use of knowledge and information, gifts and entertainment, responsibility to shareholders and the financial community.
The Companys policies are reviewed periodically.
