Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 75 Audit and risk committee report Statement by the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, Mark Arnesen Dear shareholders During the financial year ended 31 December 2013, the Audit and Risk Committee AR Committee comprised three independent non executive directors including myself as Chairman, Mark Bankes and Edward Haslam.
In accordance with the Ontario Securities Commission requirements, all members of the AR Committee are considered financially literate pursuant to section 1.5 of the Multilateral Instrument 52110 and in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code I have the required relevant financial experience and am a professionally qualified accountant.
During the year the AR Committee reviewed and updated its Charter to take account of the Code and best practice guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council, a copy of which can be found on the Companys website.
Mark Arnesen Details of the activities carried out by the AR Committee during the year are Chairman detailed in the Report and also required by the Code, the accounting issues highlighted during the year are summarised below further details are set out at the end of the AR Committee report : 1 impairment of assets focusing on Sukari : 2 litigation and the assessment of current litigation and appropriate disclosures: 3 recovery of capitalised exploration evaluation and development expenditure: 4 revenue recognition in respect to gold sales under the gold refining and sales contract: 5 accounting treatment of Sukari Gold Mines and forecast cost recoveries: and 6 going concern: significant judgments, estimates and calculations.
Each of the significant issues identified above are detailed in the notes to the financial statements.
The external auditor of the Group, Deloitte LLP Deloitte have audited the Group for a number of years and I am satisfied that the audit engagement for the financial year ended 2013, headed by the Audit Partner, was both effective and value added to the Group.
The AR Committee continues to monitor the auditors objectivity and independence and I am satisfied that Deloitte and the Group have appropriate policies and procedures in place to ensure that these requirements are not compromised.
The nonaudit work carried out by Deloitte during the year included the provision of tax and accounting services in relation to the takeover of Ampella Mining Ltd, tax advice on restructuring and compliance and statutory services for certain of the Groups subsidiaries.
Deloitte have open access to the Board of Directors at all times and the Audit Partner and certain of the Audit management team attended and presented to the AR Committee at key meetings throughout the year.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 76 Audit and risk committee report continued Deloitte have adopted a policy of rotating audit partners The AR Committee meetings are regularly attended by the every five years.
The last rotation of the audit partner CEO and Chairman, CFO and the Group Accountant along occurred for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Deloitte with the Company Secretary who acts as the Secretary of have provided audit services to the Centamin Group from the AR Committee.
The external auditor is also invited to the early 90s, whilst listed on the Australian Stock Exchange attend key meetings.
Separate discussions outside a formal and pursuing exploration in Western Australia.
More committee meeting are regularly held between the Audit recently, Deloitte LLP UK have provided audit services Partner, the AR Committee Chairman and the CFO.
since the redomicile in December 2011.
Every meeting during the year had full attendance of the Following a review of its governance arrangements and in AR Committee, with the exception of one meeting where the light of recommendations in the Code, the Company a quorum of two members was present.
The key activity envisages commencing an audit tender process in 2014 undertaken during the year is summarised below: and will invite a number of leading audit firms to tender, Responsibility and activity of the AR Committee including its current auditor, Deloitte.
Pending the outcome The AR Committee assists the Board in discharging its of the tender, the AR Committee intend recommending that responsibilities by exercising due care, diligence and skill in the Board reappoint Deloitte as Auditor at the forthcoming the following main areas: Annual General Meeting and approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of Deloitte.
a the application of accounting policies and reporting of financial information to shareholders, regulators and the Activity over the coming year, will include progressing a general public: scoping document and further discussions with candidates b business risk management and internal control systems, in relation to the provision of internal audit services which including business policies and practices: monitoring and will assist the Group and enhance the control and reporting reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal environment for the financial reporting team.
audit function: Composition of the AR Committee and attendance c corporate conduct and business ethics, including auditor The AR Committee is made up of three independent non independence and ongoing compliance with laws and executive directors, namely Mark Arnesen Chairman of the regulation: and committee and the members Edward Haslam and Mark d risk evaluation and review of mitigation.
Mark Arnesen has extensive expertise in structuring of major resource projects and is a Chartered Accountant with over 20 years experience in the international resources industry.
a Reporting b Internal controls c External auditors d Nonaudit services Consideration of the quarterly Review and monitor adherence Review the audit planning Review of nonaudit services and full year results and the to policies and procedures.
process and relationship and appropriate safeguards.
between the auditors and management.
Approach to significant Monitor reports from Review of the audit letters and Review of proposals and accounting estimates and management on compliance audit reports to management engagement terms for the judgments as described in this and breaches of policies and and adequacy of responses.
Consideration of Monitor the effectiveness of the Review managements Review of tax compliance and announcements to the LSE TSX internal control framework by representation letters to the tax structuring proposals.
Involvement in development of Consideration of provisions Consider the appointment of an internal audit function.
under the Code, including for an internal auditor and scope example tendering and partner of the engagement.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 77 a Reporting c External auditors The AR Committee is responsible for reviewing the quarterly, Deloitte was reengaged as the Groups auditors following half yearly and annual financial statements for submission to the AGM in May 2013 and has acted as the Groups auditor the Board for their approval.
Internal controls over financial reporting are designed to The AR Committee is responsible for the development, provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on Groups financial reporting and compliance with generally external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for accepted accounting principles in the Groups financial monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance statements.
Management evaluated at implementation the with ethical and regulatory requirements to the AR design of internal controls over financial reporting provided Committee, and daytoday responsibility to the Chief reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial Financial Officer.
It states that the external auditor is jointly reporting and the preparation of financial statements for responsible to the Board and the AR Committee and that external purposes in accordance with International Financial the AR Committee is the primary contact.
Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European The AR Committee is satisfied that the independence and Union EU IFRS.
objectivity of the external auditor has not been compromised b Internal controls as a result of the provision on nonaudit services and taken as a whole, the level of fees are not material relative to the In ensuring an effective internal control framework exists total income of the external audit firm.
within the Group, the AR Committee has throughout the year and up to the date of this report, received regular To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the AR internal reports from management, including analysis Committee reviewed: on forecasts, actual v budget analysis, information on adherence to internal controls and recommendations for the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors improvements to the internal control framework in line with independence and objectivity: required guidelines.
the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variations from the plan: The AR Committee monitored progress throughout the year the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their on a number of enhancements to the control environment, handling of the key accounting and audit judgments: and including the following: the external auditors qualifications, expertise development and implantation of a Whistleblowing and and resources.
Treasury policy: Having considered the effectiveness of the external auditor enhanced formalities and record keeping of decisions the AR Committee concluded that the external auditor between management and committees: and was effective.
information flows between management and heads of department.
d Nonaudit services The policy on nonaudit services sets out the categories Due to the simplicity of the corporate structure and which the external auditor will and will not be allowed reporting framework, the Company has not required an to provide to the Group, including those that need internal audit function to date, however, as Stage 4 is preapproval by the AR Committee and those which require complete and the Group is undertaking further joint venture specific approval before they are contracted for, subject to arrangements and acquisitions, an internal auditor is fide minimis levels.
considered appropriate for the Group.
The AC Committee has reviewed an initial draft scoping document which sets Fees for audit services incurred during the year amounted to out the parameters for an internal audit of the Groups US$418,000 with nonaudit fees amounting to US$305,000.
internal controls, concentrating primarily on the systems Full details of audit and nonaudit fees are set out in and controls in the financial reporting framework.
Following Note 22 to the financial statements.
a tendering process, an external audit firm is likely to be engaged in the first half of 2014 to carry out the internal During the year the nonaudit work carried out by Deloitte audit process.
included the provision of tax and accounting services in relation to the takeover of Ampella Mining Ltd, tax advice on Group structuring and compliance and statutory services for certain of the Groups subsidiaries.
To the extent necessary, the auditor obtained preapproval from the AR Committee before performing these services and has used separate teams for the tax advisory services and other related services, than the team performing the audit.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 78 Audit and risk committee report continued e Risk assessment and risk mitigation to mitigate risks associated with the Company and underlying operational and exploration activity which are The Board delegated responsibility to the AR Committee monitored and evaluated regularly.
The exploration for and to review and monitor the risk management systems.
development of metals and mineral resources, together with The Board have reviewed the significant risks facing the the construction and development of mining operations is a Group and considered the identification and mitigation speculative activity that involves a high degree of risk.
The AR Committee aim to influence managements risk appetite to ensure they are aligned Due to the nature of these inherent risks, it is not possible with the longterm objectives of the Group.
to give absolute assurance that mitigating actions will be wholly effective.
The table below describes the key risks The Group conducts a variety of risk assessments affecting the Company and its underlying operational and throughout the year, which are reviewed by the Audit exploration activities together with the measures to mitigate and Risk Committee and the Board in accordance with risk and the preserved risk by management.
best practice guidelines and in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and relevant Canadian A full list of the principal risks affecting the Centamin Group requirements.
The Group takes a number of measures can be found in the MD&A.
Risk category High Moderate Risk category Description of potential risks Mitigation commentary Single project The Sukari Gold Mine currently constitutes Centamins main mineral Mitigating factors include continued growth dependency Resource and Reserve and nearterm production and revenue.
Any and expansion through exploration and for nearterm adverse development affecting the progress of the Sukari Project acquisition targets both inside and outside of revenues such as, but not limited to unusual and unexpected geologic Egypt.
Until further production growth beyond formations, seismic activity, rock bursts, caveins, flooding and other Sukari is identified the risk remains high.
conditions involved in the drilling and removal of material, any of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, mines and other producing facilities, or any other event leading to a reduction in production or closure of mines or other producing facilities, damage to life or property, environmental damage, hiring suitable personnel and engineering contractors, or securing supply agreements on commercially suitable terms.
Sukari Project SGM is owned jointly by PGM and EMRA, with equal board Mitigating factors include ensuring joint venture risk representation, whilst responsibility for the daytoday management cooperative relations with EMRA however the and relationship of SGM rests with the general manager, who is appointed by PGM.
with EMRA The board of SGM operates by way of simple majority.
As such, should the board of SGM be unable to reach consensus on a matter requiring boardlevel approval or in the event of any dispute arising between PGM and EMRA, which PGM is unable to amicably resolve, it may have to participate in arbitration or other proceedings to resolve the dispute, which could have a material and adverse effect on Centamins business, results of operations, financial performance and prospects.
Any dispute with EMRA may adversely affect the Centamin Groups ability to manage the Sukari Project in the most effective way.
Such a dispute could arise under the cost recovery and profit share provisions of the Sukari Concession Agreement.
The successful management of the Sukari Gold Mine is in part dependent on maintaining a good working relationship with EMRA.
The Group has regular meetings with officials from EMRA and invests time in liaising with relevant ministry and other governmental representatives.
Management and the Board of Directors believe the Group has a positive and constructive working relationship with EMRA.
The Group complies with all terms and conditions of the Concession Agreement covering the Sukari Gold Mine.
EMRA has equal representation on the Board of Sukari Gold Mines and is involved to that extent in approving and auditing all work programmes and expenditures.
EMRA inspectors are closely involved in monitoring all aspects of the Sukari operations.
Current discussions with EMRA are focused on determining the exact timing and quantum of the first payment of profit sharing for Sukari.
Whilst the impact would be high, management believes there is a low probability of a material deterioration in relationships with EMRA, particularly following the prepayment in relation to future profit share made during the year.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 79 Risk category Description of potential risks Mitigation commentary Failure to Centamin currently prepares estimates of future gold production Whilst there can be no certainties, production achieve for its existing and future development of the Sukari Gold Mine.
to date has provided confidence in production There can be no assurance that Centamin will achieve its production managements estimation and mine planning estimates estimates and such failure could have a material and adverse effect methods.
on Centamins future cash flows, profitability, results of operations The pending commissioning of the Stage 4 and financial condition.
The realisation of production estimates process plant means that the current risk are dependent on, amongst other things: the accuracy of mineral rating remains high.
Reserve and Resource estimates: the accuracy of assumptions regarding ore grades and recovery rates: ground conditions including hydrology : physical characteristics of ores: the presence or absence of particular metallurgical characteristics: the accuracy of estimated rates and costs of mining including access to and permitting for sufficient quantities of ammonium nitrate and related blasting products, ore haulage, the availability of suitable machinery and equipment, skilled labour and processing capacity and all logistics for consumables and parts.
Currency and A significant portion of Centamins operating expenses are incurred Centamin manages its exposure to gold price gold price risk in US dollars, Egyptian pounds and Great British pounds, whilst its fluctuations by retaining a focus on keeping revenues from gold sales are in US dollars.
Furthermore, Centamin operating costs as low as possible.
However, does not currently maintain any facilities for hedging its exposure the risks relating to gold price reductions to currencies or the price of gold, which fluctuates as a result of a remain high.
The Group has not entered into number of factors beyond Centamins control.
Natural hedges are utilised wherever possible to offset Any appreciation in currencies other than US dollars in which the foreign currency liabilities.
The Company Group incurs material expenses or adverse fluctuations in the gold maintains a policy of not hedging its currency spot price, could have a material and adverse effect on Centamins positions and maintains currency holdings business, results of operations, financial performance and prospects.
in line with underlying requirements and commitments.
Litigation risks Centamins finances, and its ability to operate in Egypt, may be In order to mitigate this risk Centamin has: severely adversely affected by current and any future litigation 1 engaged appropriate legal advice and proceedings and it is possible that further litigation could be continues to actively pursue its legal rights initiated against Centamin at any time.
with respect to the existing litigation and Centamin is currently involved in litigation that relates both to a the its legal advisers believe that Centamin will validity of its exploitation lease at Sukari and b the price at which it ultimately be successful in both of these can purchase diesel fuel oil.
cases: and 2 management and the Companys legal advisers monitor both activity in court and local media for signs of any litigation that may threaten its operations, finances or prospects.
The potential for serious impact should be balanced against Centamins adherence to local laws and agreements, as well as the Egyptian governments support of Centamins investment and its proposals for a new investment law that could protect Centamin against litigation of this nature.
Reserve and The mineral resource and reserve estimates are prepared by Management has implemented processes to resource Centamin Group personnel, with the assistance of independent continuously monitor and evaluate the current estimates geologists.
By their nature, mineral resource and reserves are life of the Sukari Gold Mine, mine plans and estimates based on a range of assumptions, including geological, production targets.
The most recent technical metallurgical and technical factors.
There can be no guarantee that update was completed in the Form 43101F1 the anticipated tonnages or grades expected by Centamin will be dated 30 January 2014 and is available at achieved.
com reflecting a reduction in resource and reserve estimates.
This takes into account the latest drill results, higher cost environment and the timing of the Stage 4 commissioning.
Whilst there are no certainties, production to date has provided confidence in managements estimation and mine planning methods.
Details of the resource and reserve estimate can be found in the Performance Review.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 80 Audit and risk committee report continued Significant Issues highlighted during the year Contained within Note 13 are details of the carrying value by the AR Committee and write downs of investments held in other exploration companies.
The AR Committee having considered The following significant issues were highlighted during managements view on the sampling, drill results and assay the year by the AR Committee full details and analysis results, supports the approach taken by management are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements: The AR in respect to the above.
In addition, the AR Committee Committee discussed these critical accounting judgments recommended the timely recording of the impairment of and associated disclosures with management and as Nyota Minerals Limited and Sahar Minerals Limited during a committee.
1 Impairment of assets focusing on Sukari 4 Revenue recognition As a result of the decline in the gold price, the Group The AR Committee has considered the terms of the carried out an impairment test in relation to Sukari.
In previous and current contract with Johnson Matthey calculating the net present value of the future cash flows, Canada effective from 1 March 2014.
The papers certain assumptions are required to be made in respect put forward by management with regards to revenue of highly uncertain matters including managements recognition have been reviewed by the AR committee assumptions of: who agree with the approach.
forecast gold prices: 5 Going concern discount rate: Under guidelines set out by the UK Financial Reporting production volumes: Council FRC the directors of UK listed companies are reserves and resources report: and required to consider whether the going concern basis is the costs and recovery rates.
appropriate basis of preparation of financial statements.
Based on the impairment test performed, management Based on a detailed cash flow forecast prepared by believe, and the AR Committee support managements management, in which any reasonably possible changes analysis that no impairment writedowns were required.
in the key assumptions on which cash flow forecast have See Note 14.1 and 14.2 to the financial statements.
been set out, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in 2 Litigation operational existence for the foreseeable future and the AR The Group is currently a party to two legal actions both of Committee agree with this view.
which could, affect its ability to operate the mine at Sukari 6 Accounting treatment of Sukari Gold Mines SGM in the manner in which it is currently operated and adversely affect its profitability.
SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin Group of companies, reflecting the substance and economic In the unlikely event that the Group is unsuccessful in either reality of the Concession Agreement see Note 23 to the or both of its legal actions, and that the operating activities financial statements and records all the assets, liabilities, are restricted to a reduced area, it is managements belief income and expense of SGM on a 100% proportionate that the Group will be able to continue as going concern.
The AR Committee reviewed papers The AR Committee has reviewed the documentation from management and agree with the current accounting relating to the status of both legal actions and supports treatment as set out above.
See Note 20 to the financial statements for details of the litigation.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the AR Committee 3 Recovery of capitalised exploration evaluation has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its and development expenditure terms of reference and has ensured the independence and As described in Note 13 to the financial statements, objectivity of the external auditor.
A member of the AR management have taken the decision not to renew the Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting Finarwa and Shehagne licences in respect of exploration along with the CFO to answer any questions in relation to rights held by Sheba Explorations Holding Limited, a this report.
wholly owned subsidiary of Centamin plc, and have thus written off all expenditure incurred to date including the Mark Arnesen acquisition costs in relation to those licences amounting For and on behalf of to US$6,712,752.
Audit and Risk Committee of Centamin plc 21 March 2014
