Governance corporate Governance report The Centrica business model is both wide ranging and complex but its culture is simple and straightforward professionalism, openness and transparency in the way we do things, together with integrity and honesty in how we do them.
An organisation is dependent upon its management and structure for the execution of its strategy and upon We see governance its culture for the way in which its results areachieved.
as a guide to ensure The Group relies on a robust governance framework to support the organisation.
we do the right things Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The Board is accountable to shareholders and is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance in the right way.
as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In keeping with best practice, we oversee the Groups worldwide operations through a unitary Board and six separate Committees Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure.
The full governance arrangements of the Board, including its composition and performance, are discussed in detail in the Corporate Governance Report together with the role of each Committee, its membership and the key issues considered during2013.
The Board comprises 11 Directors of which six are Non-Executive in addition to our Chairman.
We have sought to ensure we have a balanced Board where individual merit and relevance are the key entry requirements but collectively there is an appropriate mix of gender, nationalities and skills to ensure constructive debate and thoughtful decision making.
Following the announcement last June that Sir Roger Carr would step down as Chairman of Centrica at the end of 2013, we undertook a formal and rigorous recruitment process to identify and appoint his successor.
This process was led by Mary Francis, our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Rick Haythornthwaite joined us as a Non-Executive Director on 14October 2013 and took over as Chairman on 1 January 2014.
We will be carrying out similar recruitment processes to identify a new Group Finance Director following the announcement that Nick Luff will be leaving Centrica no later than 31December 2014.
In addition we will recruit two new Non-Executive Directors this year as both Mary Francis and Paul Rayner have completed their nine-year term of office.
All shareholders have the opportunity to vote on the re-election of each of our Directors on an annualbasis.
In keeping with the requirements of the Code, we carried out an internal evaluation of the Boards performance in 2013, the findings of which are discussed on page 55 of the Corporate Governance Report.
We will be carrying out an externally facilitated evaluation of our Board, its Committees and individual Directors in 2014.
In recognising that there are likely to be further Board changes either at the end of this year or early 2015, the Board is also considering a further external review towards the end of 2015, once the refreshed Board has had the opportunity tosettle.
The Corporate Governance Report that follows has been prepared in order to provide shareholders with a comprehensive understanding of Centricas governance framework and has been prepared to meet the requirements of the Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure & TransparencyRules.
GraNt DaWSoN General counsel & company Secretary 20 February 2014 52 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information This report sets out how the Company applied the principles Board meetings of the Code and the extent to which the Company complied with The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
the provision of the Code in the year to 31 December 2013.
In 2013, the Board met 11 times, of which eight were scheduled meetings and three were unscheduled supplementary meetings.
The Board considers that throughout the year, it complied with Four other Committee meetings of the Board were held which the provisions set out in the Code.
During this period, two of our considered the appointment of the Chairman, the share repurchase Non-Executive Directors, Mary Francis and Paul Rayner completed programme, potential acquisitions and financing arrangements.
their nine-year term of office, however, the Board considers that their continued membership is in the best interests of the Company.
The Board continuously assesses and reviews key priorities and Further detail on their term of office is provided on page 54.
The business issues for the Group over the short, medium and long Code sets out standards of good practice in relation to board term.
Comprehensive papers are presented to the Board which leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and facilitates meaningful debate on the performance and the future relations with shareholders.
A copy of the Code is available direction of the Company.
from the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC.
All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant tHE BoarD Committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board meetings during 2013 are set out in the table below and attendance Board of Directors at Committee meetings, where appropriate, is included on pages56 The Board believes that good corporate governance contributes to 62.
Where a Director was not in attendance, this was due to other to Centricas performance.
A clearly defined framework of roles, prior work commitments.
Directors who were unable to attend responsibilities and delegated authorities is in place and this specific Board or Committee meetings reviewed the relevant papers supports the Boards aim to deliver sustainable growth for the and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board or benefit of shareholders, employees and customers.
The powers Committee, as appropriate.
In addition, any Director who misses of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the minutes of that Articles, which are available on the Companys website.
The meeting for future reference.
Articles may be amended by special resolution.
In addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties under legislation, in Number Meetings particular the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
of meetings attended i Sir Roger Carr 11 11 The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval which is reviewed annually to ensure best practice.
Sam Laidlaw 11 11 No changes were made in 2013.
A summary is shown below Margherita Della Valle 11 11 and the full schedule is available on our website.
The Board also Mary Francis 11 11 delegates other matters to Board Committees and management Mark Hanafin 11 11 asappropriate.
ii Rick Haythornthwaite 4 3 The Board is responsible for: Lesley Knox 11 11 iii development of strategy and major policies: Mike Linn 7 6 the Groups corporate governance and systems of internal control: Nick Luff 11 11 reviewing performance: Ian Meakins 11 11 approving interim dividend payments and recommending final Paul Rayner 11 10 dividend payments: Chris Weston 11 11 approval of the annual operating plan, Financial Statements iv Phil Bentley 5 5 and major acquisitions and disposals: v Andrew Mackenzie 4 3 the Groups corporate responsibility arrangements including i Sir Roger Carr stepped down as Chairman of the Board on 31 December 2013. health, safety and environmental matters: and ii Rick Haythornthwaite joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 14 October 2013 and was appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2014.
Rick was not in attendance at the appointment and removal of Directors and the one Board meeting due to work commitments agreed prior to his appointment.
iii Mike Linn joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1June 2013.
Mike was not in attendance at one Board meeting due to work commitments agreed prior to his appointment.
As part of its responsibilities, the Board approves and monitors iv Phil Bentley stepped down as Managing Director, British Gas on 30 June 2013. v Andrew Mackenzie stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 10 May 2013. the development of the Groups strategy.
At its 2013 strategy conference, the Board reviewed the progress against strategic Board constitution and appointments priorities and debated the challenges within our current markets.
Following the departure of Sir Roger Carr, the Board will have Key strategic considerations included: a total of 11 Directors of which four are Executive and six are the competitive landscape and market conditions: Non-Executive, in addition to our Chairman.
The Board comprises an assessment of growth options across the Group and investment a good balance of Executive Directors and independent Nonopportunities in exploration and production, midstream including Executive Directors which promotes thorough consideration of UK gas storage, power generation and downstream: the important issues facing Centrica and the Groups performance.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, formalised an assessment of our investment in the development of offshore in writing and have been approved by the Board.
A summary of wind projects: and these roles is available on page 54 and they are available on the a review of different capital allocation options, including an Companys website, together with an explanation of the roles assessment of long-term financial performance and capacity of the Non-Executive Directors.
under various scenarios of the business and the optimal use of capital, including whether any capital should, in future, be returned toshareholders.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 53 Governance corporate Governance report continued The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and management A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during of the Board.
In doing so, he is responsible for promoting high the selection and subsequent appointment of new Directors to the ethical standards and best practice in corporate governance Board.
This process is described in the section on the Nominations Committee on page 60.
Recent changes to the composition of the and ensures the effective contribution of allDirectors.
Board are set in the table below: The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive leadership and day-to-day management of the Company, to ensure the Andrew Mackenzie Resigned as Non- 10 May 2013 delivery of the strategy agreed by the Board.
Executive Director The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Mike Linn Appointed as Non- 1 June 2013 Executive Director Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors, as well as shareholders, as required.
Phil Bentley Resigned as Managing 30 June 2013 Director, British Gas Our Non-Executive Directors, through their diverse experience and Rick Haythornthwaite Appointed as Non- 14 October 2013 skills, scrutinise the performance of management and constructively Executive Director and challenge and help develop our strategy.
They uphold high standards Chairman 1 January 2014 of integrity and probity.
They form the Audit, Nominations and Sir Roger Carr Resigned as Chairman 31 December 2013 Remuneration Committees.
We have sought to ensure we have a balanced Board where The Act and the Articles require the Board to consider any potential individual merit and relevance are the key entry requirements but conflicts of interest.
The Board considers and, if appropriate, authorises collectively we have an appropriate mix of gender, nationalities and each Directors reported actual and potential conflicts of interest skills to ensure constructive debate and thoughtful decision making.
The conflicts of interest register is reviewed at least In addition, we believe it is important to maintain a blend within annually by the Board.
Each Director abstains from approving the Non-Executive group where some are in full-time executive their own reported conflicts.
employment and others are pursuing a portfolio non-executive The Board recognises that its Non-Executive Directors have other career path.
Our most recent appointments to the Board have interests outside of Centrica and so, each year, the Chairman and brought strong upstream credentials in North America, a fresh each Non-Executive Director provide assurance to the Board that perspective and have reinvigorated debate and discussion.
they remain fully committed to their respective roles.
The Board On the appointment of Rick Haythornthwaite as Chairman of the considers these assurances and is satisfied that each Non-Executive Company, the Board considered that he met the independence Director can dedicate the necessary amount of time to attend to criteria set out in the Code.
As part of its annual review of corporate the Companys affairs.
governance, the Board considered the independence of each NonThe Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for re-appointment Executive Director, other than the Chairman, against the criteria in at each Annual General Meeting AGM.
the Code and determined that each Non-Executive Director remained Details of the Directors of the Company are set out with their independent.
During the year the Non-Executive Directors, including biographies on pages 50 and 51.
Details of Directors service the Chairman, met independently of management.
In addition, contracts or letters of appointment, in the case of Non-Executive the Senior Independent Director met with the independent Directors, emoluments and share interests are set out in the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 82. to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Board composition planning Board performance Over the last two years, we have completed a refresh of the Board Board development in keeping with the requirement for ensuring independence of mind All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive and relevance of skills.
induction programme tailored to meet their individual needs.
The Chairman and General Counsel & Company Secretary are As announced in January 2014, Nick Luff will be leaving the responsible for delivering an effective induction programme for Company by no later than 31 December 2014.
A search for Nicks newly appointedDirectors.
As detailed on page 53, two of our Non-Executives, Mary Francis and Paul Rayner, completed their Mike Linn and Rick Haythornthwaite, both recently appointed to the nine-year term of office in 2013.
In the Annual Report 2012, it was Board, discussed with the General Counsel & Company Secretary confirmed that Mary Francis would extend her term of office on the what briefings and meetings would be most beneficial to them to Board through to a maximum of December 2014.
As announced in ensure an effective induction.
As a result, tailored induction programmes July 2013, the Board decided that it was appropriate to extend Paul were designed for both Mike Linn and Rick Haythornthwaite Rayners term as a Non-Executive Director through to December 2014. respectively which included briefings from members of the Executive Whilst this exceeds their nine-year term, the Board has confirmed team on key areas of the business including the internal audit that they remain independent in character and judgement as they function, an overview of the Groups risk management processes, are free from any business or other relationship that could materially the key risks facing the business, site visits and a briefing in respect interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
This of the corporate governance framework within Centrica.
approach is in the best interests of the Company.
A search will be Ongoing development and training is also provided to all Directors, initiated for the replacement of both Mary Francis and Paul Rayner in as agreed with the Chairman, at Board and Committee meetings.
2014 with a specification of skills and background to be determined During the year, Directors received regular updates and presentations in keeping with the demands of the business model at thattime.
on changes and developments to the business and to the legislative 54 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information See the Principal risks and uncertainties on page 42 and regulatory environments in which the Group operates.
management was rated as above average but greater discussion In particular, the Board was briefed on the following key on strategy would be welcomed.
As a result, an additional Board issues during2013: meeting which focused on strategy was held in January 2014 and progress against identified issues will be monitored at each Board the impact of the Energy Company Obligation ECO : meeting throughout the year.
Responses also indicated that additional progress with and the impact of the Energy Bill: site visits and exposure to senior management below the level of the progress made on the British Gas trust agenda: Executive Committee would be appreciated.
As a result, two site an overview of the latest developments in British Gas smart visits are planned for 2014.
The Board will visit our upstream technology, including Me Mobile Energy : operations in Aberdeen and the British Gas office in Oxford where an update on the Companys gas storage strategy and the Board will take the opportunity to meet local management, the security of energy supplydebate: employees and stakeholders.
Succession planning was recognised as a key area of focus, particularly in light of the changes discussed progress within the Groups regulated businesses: on pages 53 and 54.
Continued focus will be given to the competitive company law, corporate governance, reporting and remuneration environment and to the views of major investors.
There was good reporting developments: and consensus across the Board on the most significant risks facing health, safety and environmental governance and strategy.
In addition, the Directors visited Direct Energys offices in Houston Each of the Board Committees have also reviewed the outcome from in September 2013 for presentations on the North American the evaluation in 2013 and have already started progressing against management priorities, performance, outlook and strategy and the findings.
These reviews identified a number of areas of good undertook site visits.
practice and a few areas that could be improved but no material The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the issues were found.
As stated on page 52 we will carry out an externally General Counsel & Company Secretary, who is responsible for facilitated evaluation of the Board, Committees and individual Directors advising the Board through the Chairman on corporate governance in 2014 and, recognising that there are likely to be further Board matters.
They are also able to seek independent professional changes, we are considering commissioning a further external advice at the Companys expense in respect of their duties.
review towards the end of 2015.
Board evaluation Balance and independence of the Board Our policy over many years has been to conduct a thorough review As part of the evaluation process, the Board considers the balance of Board process, practice and culture on an annual basis with the of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to ensure the input of an external facilitator at least once every three years.
The Board and Committees effectively discharge their duties and Board considers the annual review of the Board, its Committees and responsibilities.
It is important that the Directors have a varied Directors as an essential part of good corporate governance.
Over range of skills and experience to ensure they can exercise their the last 10 years, the Company has employed Egon Zehnder on two independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance and occasions, JCA Group and in 2011, Independent Board Evaluations resources.
Details of Directors skills and experience can be found IBE.
IBE have no other connections with the Company.
On each on pages 50 and 51. occasion, the Board has received positive reports and has adopted recommendations to improve Board, Committee and individual Directors indemnities and insurance Directorperformance.
In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors and the In December 2013, we conducted an internal Board evaluation General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Qualifying third party involving a written questionnaire followed by discussion in order indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act were to evaluate the success of the changes made and identify points in force during the year ended 31 December 2013 and remain in to be addressed in the next 12 months.
The Company also maintains directors and officers liability For 2013, the findings continued to be positive and demonstrate insurance for its Directors and Officers.
that the Directors consider that the Board leads and controls the Group effectively.
The effectiveness of the Board agenda and time Board governance structure BOARD OF DIRECTORS Audit Nominations Remuneration Corporate Executive Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Group Risk Management Committee Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 55 Governance corporate Governance report continued Margherita Della Valle was appointed as Chairman of the Committee BoarD coMMittEES in July 2013 and as Group financial controller of Vodafone Groupplc, The Board operates six Committees to oversee the standards of the is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial Group: Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility, experience as required by the Code.
In addition, Paul Rayner is Executive and Disclosure.
All of the independent Non-Executive considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial Directors are members of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration experience having held several senior financial positions.
The Committees are supported in the same way as the members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Board in order to ensure information flows in a timely, accurate and Directors who have a wide range of relevant business experience.
Further details regarding the Directors skills and experience can The Board reviews each Committees terms of reference and be found in their biographies on pages 50 and 51.
The Board is membership against best practice as well as taking into account satisfied that the Committee has the resources and expertise to any relevant changes in circumstances.
In 2013, no changes were fulfil its responsibilities.
made to the terms of reference of the Board Committees.
The roles Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman of and responsibilities for each Committee are set out in formal terms the Board, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, General of reference which are approved by the Board and are available on Counsel & Company Secretary and the Head of Risk, Control ourwebsite.
& Audit, none of whom do so as of right.
Other senior executives Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Directors will attend as required to provide information on matters being and the Chairman of each Committee provides regular updates to discussed which fall into their area of responsibility.
auditors,  PwC, also attend each meeting.
The Committee meets individually with the external A chart setting out the Companys Board and Executive Committees auditors and the Head of Risk, Control & Audit at each meeting structure can be found on page 55.
The responsibilities of each without executivespresent.
Board Committee, its membership and the key issues considered by each one during 2013 are set out in the following Committee reports.
The Committee members participated in two training sessions during the year: one in July 2013 facilitated by members of Centricas auDit coMMittEE Group Finance team focusing on the treatment of exceptional items role of the committee and their presentation in the Income Statement and one in November The Committees key function is to support the Board in fulfilling 2013 in respect of the global LNG market.
its responsibilities in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys Key issues considered by the audit committee financial reporting, internal controls and risk management.
As part During 2013, the Committee considered: of this role, the Committee provides advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole is fair, the 2012 preliminary results, the 2012 Annual Report and the balanced and understandable and provides all the necessary 2013 half-year results: information for shareholders to assess the Companys progress on aligning assurance activities to improve the quality performance, business model and strategy.
and delivery of internal controls and assurance: Membership and attendance during the year: the internal audit strategy and scope ofactivities: the independence, objectivity and fees of the external auditors, Number Meetings the scope of audit and non-audit services and the policy on the of meetings attended independence of external auditors: Margherita Della Valle Chairman 4 4 the implications of the Code and accounting standards: Mary Francis 4 4 adherence across the Group to key regulatory and compliance Lesley Knox 4 4 requirements, including compliance with the undertakings in i Mike Linn 2 1 respect of Centrica Storage Limited: and Ian Meakins 4 4 whether the judgements, estimates and assumptions used in Paul Rayner 4 4 the presentation of the Financial Statements were reasonable i Mike Linn joined the Committee on 1 June 2013.
Mike was not in attendance at one Audit and consistent see note 3 of the Financial Statements, including Committee meeting due to work commitments agreed prior to his appointment.
those set out in the table on pages 58 and 59.
56 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information See the Principal risks and uncertainties on page 42 In addition, to ensure the independence of the external auditors and risk management and internal controls in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland Further details of risk management and internal controls are set 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices out on pages 42 to 48.
Board and as a matter of best practice, PwC have confirmed their internal audit independence as auditors of the Company, in a letter addressed The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the to the Directors.
Together with PwCs confirmation and report on operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, their approach to audit quality and transparency, the Committee including its strategic focus, activities, plans and resources.
The concluded that PwC demonstrated appropriate qualifications and appointment and removal of the Head of Risk, Control & Audit is expertise and remained independent of the Group and that also a matter for the Committee.
The Groups internal audit three-year plan for the period 2014 Non-audit fees to 2016 was approved by the Committee, which was primarily In order to preserve the independence of the external auditor, the risk-based and also focused on the assurance of core processes.
Committee is responsible for the policy on the award of non-audit The Committee also reviewed staffing levels and qualifications services to the external auditors.
A copy of this policy is available to ensure these were appropriate and adequate for the delivery on our website.
The award of non-audit work, within permitted of the plan.
categories, is subject to pre-clearance by the Committee, should the fees in a given year exceed a specified threshold.
All significant During the year, the Committee received regular reports from the non-audit work is tendered and where PwC were appointed, it was Head of Risk, Control & Audit summarising the findings from the considered that their skills and experience made them the most Groups internal audit functions work and action plans to resolve appropriate supplier of the work.
On a quarterly basis, the Committee any highlighted areas.
is provided with reports of all non-audit assignments awarded to the The Committee monitored the progress of the most significant external auditors and a full breakdown of non-audit fees incurred.
action plans to ensure these were completed satisfactorily.
Significant engagements undertaken during 2013 included tax compliance and advice, corporate finance support for a significant the Boards review of the system of internal controls acquisition and the rationalisation of the Groups legal entity Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates structure.
A summary of fees paid to the external auditors throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal controls is set out in note S9 to the Financial Statements.
and compliance with the Groups business principles and policies are assessed.
In 2013, the self-certification was completed both appointment of the external auditors at the half-year and full-year.
During the year, the self-certification PwC has been the external auditor of the Group since the demerger process was enhanced to include requirements to perform more of Centrica in 1997.
In accordance with the Code, the Group expects detailed assessments to comply with the new Group Controls to perform an audit tender before 2017, but will continue to monitor Standards.
The results of the annual process, together with the the implications from any potential new corporate governance conclusions of the internal reviews by internal audit, inform the guidance or changes in business requirements.
As in past years, annual assessment performed by the AuditCommittee.
at the Committees request, PwC performed a detailed review of their audit and submitted a formal audit plan and fee proposal.
External auditors The Committee manages the relationship with the Groups external Following a full review and having given full consideration to auditors on behalf of the Board.
The Committee considers annually the performance and independence of the external auditors, the scope, fee, performance and independence of the external the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution auditors as well as whether a formal tender process is required.
to re-appoint PwC be proposed at the 2014 AGM and the Board PwC were reappointed auditors of the Group at the AGM held has accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
in May 2013. audit information The Board considers it of prime importance that the external Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of the auditors remain independent and objective and as a safeguard Annual Report confirms that, so far as they are aware, there is no against this being compromised, the Committee implemented relevant audit information of which PwC are unaware and that they and monitors a policy on the independence of external auditors.
have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to This policy details the process for the appointment of the external make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to auditors, the tendering policy, the provision of non-audit services, establish that PwC are aware of that information.
the setting of audit fees and the rotation of audit partner and staff.
There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditors.
Effectiveness and independence of the external auditors To assess the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors, the Committee carried out an assessment of PwC.
This included a review of the report issued by the audit quality review team regarding PwC and an internal questionnaire completed by Committee members and relevant members of management on their views of PwCs performance.
The questionnaire covered a review of the audit partner and team, the audit approach, audit plan execution, auditor independence and objectivity and robustness of challenge of management.
The feedback received was reviewed by management and reported to the Committee and the Board.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 57 Governance corporate Governance report continued Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2013 audit committee reviews and conclusions impairment of goodwill, upstream gas and oil assets, power generation assets and storage facility assets The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the carrying the carrying amounts of its assets are recoverable.
These judgements and recoverable value of the assets and the key judgements and include primarily the achievement of Board approved business plans, estimates used.
During the year, following reserves and resources long-term projected cash flows, generation and production levels downgrades and lower than expected well performance, the Committee including reserve estimates and macroeconomic assumptions such concluded pre-tax impairments of upstream gas assets of 613 million as the growth and discount rates used in the valuation process.
in relation to the York, Seven Seas and A fields in the Southern North In the forecasts, where forward market prices are not available, Sea.
Following an increased discount rate and a decrease in North prices are determined based on internal model inputs.
American prices, the Committee also concluded that it was appropriate to make a 130 million impairment in relation to the Groups Canadian gas assets.
Following the governments decision not to support future storage development projects, the Committee concluded a pre-tax impairment of storage assets of 240 million.
The Committee also reviewed the recoverable amount of all other significant balance sheet assets and concluded they had recoverable values in excess of the carrying value and were not impaired.
The external auditors provided detailed reporting and held discussions with the Committee on the key judgements and assumptions used.
Further detail on impairments arising and the assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts is provided in notes 7 and S2 on pages 106 and135.
onerous contracts The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether A review and discussion of provisions with management was the unavoidable costs of meeting specific obligations exceed the undertaken by the Committee and by the external auditors, including associated future net benefits.
the utilisation and release of existing provisions and any new provisions made during the year.
The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the key judgements and estimates used.
Following a decrease in expected future revenues, a further pre-tax provision for the Rijnmond power station in the Netherlands of 125 million was recognised.
Further detail on provisions and the assumptions used in determining the value is provided in note 21 on page122.
treatment and presentation of certain re-measurements and exceptional items The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business During the year the Committee received training on the classification performance column of the Group Income Statement.
To be able to of exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the provide this clearly and with consistent presentation, the effects of income statement.
The Committee considered the size, nature and certain re-measurements of financial instruments and exceptional incidence of these items and concluded that separate disclosure of items are reported separately in a different column in the Group these items was appropriate in the Financial Statements.
items include the upstream gas impairments in the UK and North America, storage impairment in the UK and the onerous lease provision in the Netherlands as mentioned above.
Further detail is provided in note 7 on page106.
Downstream revenue recognition The Groups revenue for energy supply activities includes an estimate The Committee has reviewed and held discussions with the external auditors on the level of provisions made during the year.
Further detail of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and an estimated year-end meter reading.
It is estimated of accrued energy income is provided in note 17 on page 119. through the billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customer by customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts and the differences between actual meter readings being returned and system estimates.
An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to materially affect the ultimate economic benefits which will flow to the Group, including bill cancellation and re-bill rates.
To the extent that the economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, revenue is not recognised.
58 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2013 audit committee reviews and conclusions Determination of fair values for energy derivatives The fair values of derivative financial instruments in North America The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the key and Europe are based primarily on quoted market prices.
However, developments during the year and a summary of price changes certain energy contracts extend beyond the active period of the and drivers.
The Committee also reviewed the proposed valuation market.
The fair value of contracts are determined by reference commodity curves versus those of external third parties.
The external in part to published price quotations in active markets where they auditors also provided detailed reporting and held discussions with exist and in part by using valuation techniques based on commodity the Committee on the potential impact of changes in the commodity prices derived using assumptions that are based on internal market curves.
More detail on the assumptions used in determining fair expectations and expected volumes, discounted using an average valuations is provided in note S6 on page 152. discount rate.
A significant number of judgements and assumptions are used in deriving future commodity curves.
consolidation of the canadian Partnership During the year, the Group acquired from Suncor Energy a number The Group obtained an independent accounting opinion supporting of producing and development oil and gas assets in Canada in managements assessment.
The Committee has reviewed partnership with Qatar Petroleum International.
The Group has applied managements view and approved the treatment and disclosures judgement in determining that it has control over the relevant activities in the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
More detail on the of the partnership and therefore fully consolidates its results.
acquisition is provided in note 12 on page 113. Business combinations During the year, in addition to the Suncor acquisition, the Group also The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the valuations acquired a downstream supply business in North America from Hess and the key judgements and estimates including the valuation of oil Corporation.
Business combinations require a fair value exercise to and gas assets and the cashflows and discount rates used in valuing be undertaken to allocate the purchase price cost to the fair value the customer relationships.
The Committee also approved the of the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities and disclosures in note 12.
The external auditors also provided detailed goodwill.
As a result of the nature of fair value assessments in the reporting and held discussions with the Committee on the key energy industry, this purchase price allocation exercise requires judgements and assumptions used.
Further details on business subjective judgements based on a wide range of complex variables combinations are set out in note 12 on page 111. at a point in time.
Specifically, judgement is required in valuing the customer relationship and oil and gas assets.
Pensions The cost, assets and liabilities associated with providing benefits The Committee reviewed and approved the key assumptions and under defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each disclosures in the Financial Statements, including the new additional of the Groups schemes.
Judgement is required in setting the key risk reporting requirements for the current year.
Independent actuaries assumptions used for the actuarial valuation which determines the are consulted on the appropriateness of the assumptions and ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, especially discussions are held with the external auditors.
Further details given the length of the Groups expected liabilities.
on pensions are set out in note 22 on page 123.
Going concern and liquidity risk The Group experiences significant movements in its liquidity position The Committee reviewed managements funding forecasts and due primarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash.
sensitivity analysis and the impact of various adverse events including significant commodity price movements and credit rating downgrades.
To mitigate this risk the Group holds cash on deposit and maintains significant committed facilities.
The Group regularly prepares an The external auditors also provide detailed reporting and hold discussions with the Committee.
Following the review, the Committee assessment detailing these available resources to support the going concern assumption in preparing the Financial Statements.
recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement in the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
Further details on sources of finance are set out in note 24 on page 130. ofgem consolidated Segmental Statement The Group is required to prepare an annual regulatory statement The Committee reviewed the Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Consolidated Segmental Statement or CSS for Ofgem which breaks Statement and the key judgements and disclosures made in its down our licensed activities for the financial year into a generation, preparation.
The external auditor also provided a detailed report domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas result.
The CSS is and held discussions with the Committee.
The full CSS and the reconciled to our externally reported IFRS Annual Report and Accounts.
independent audit opinion approved by the Committee for The Group has decided to publish the CSS at the same time as our full publication are set out on pages 169 to 178. year Annual Report and Accounts and for the CSS to be independently audited to improve transparency and trust.
In preparing the CSS, judgement is required in the allocation of non-specific costs between domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas and the distinction between licensed and non-licensed activities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 59 Governance corporate Governance report continued the Committee considered the candidates against the objective NoMiNatioNS coMMittEE criteria set out in the profile, having due regard for the benefits Following the departure of Sir Roger Carr on 31 December 2013, of Boarddiversity: Rick Haythornthwaite became Chairman of the Committee on a shortlist of preferred candidates was selected from a list 1January 2014.
To reflect best practice, Sam Laidlaw stepped ofcandidates: down from the Committee with effect from 10 May 2013. the Committee appointed a sub-committee to have meetings The Committee ensures there is a formal and appropriate procedure with the shortlisted candidates: for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Committee is a preferred candidate recommendation was made by the responsible for leading this process and making recommendations Committee to the Board for consideration: and to the Board.
the Board considered and approved the appointments.
Membership and attendance during the year: MWM Consulting do not provide any other services to theCompany.
Number Meetings of meetings attended Diversity i Sir Roger Carr Chairman 7 7 Centrica is committed to the merits of diversity in all its forms at ii Margherita Della Valle 7 4 Board level and throughout the Group.
Twenty-seven per cent of the Mary Francis 7 7 Board are women.
Centrica is committed to maintaining its current iii level of women on the Board and would increase the percentage Rick Haythornthwaite 2 2 if the skills, experience and knowledge of the individual were Lesley Knox 7 7 appropriate and in keeping with the business needs.
An example iv Mike Linn 5 3 of this is that as at 1 January 2014, 50% of the senior leadership Ian Meakins 7 7 team of British Gas were women.
Paul Rayner 7 6 Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where v Sam Laidlaw 2 2 decisions are based on individual ability and potential in relation vi Andrew Mackenzie 2 1 to the business needs.
We are committed to ensuring individuals i Sir Roger Carr stepped down as Chairman of the Committee on 31 December 2013. are treated in a non-discriminatory manner at all stages of their ii Margherita Della Valle was not in attendance at two Nominations Committee meetings convened employment, including recruitment and selection, reward, training to discuss the succession of the Group Finance Director due to the risk of a potential conflict of interest, which was subsequently resolved.
Her apologies for absence were accepted for one and development and promotion and career development.
further meeting during the year due to a prior work commitment.
iii Rick Haythornthwaite joined the Committee on 14 October 2013 and was appointed its Chairman At senior management level, 26% of this population are women, whilst with effect from 1January 2014.
29% of employees excluding the Board and senior management are iv Mike Linn joined the Committee on 1 June 2013.
Mike was not in attendance at two Nominations Committee meetings due to work commitments agreed prior to his appointment.
women as indicated in the charts below.
Our senior management level v Sam Laidlaw stepped down from the Committee with effect from 10 May 2013 but continues to includes categories of employees as defined in the Act.
Centrica has attend at the invitation of the Chairman.
vi Andrew Mackenzie stepped down from the Committee on 10May 2013. various initiatives taking place relating to gender diversity.
These include coaching and mentoring and the Pearls Programme which identified In addition to the above meetings, the Committee met with the 25 women across the business to participate in a programme designed Chief Executive and the Group Director, Human Resources to to deliver a unique environment for growth and learning.
Also Centrica undertake a succession review for senior management.
has partnered with the Womens Oil Council which is a business network in the oil and gas industry and is working with the Womens Business Key issues reviewed by the Nominations committee Council which makes recommendations to government and UK During 2013, the Committee considered: businesses on how womens contribution to growth can beoptimised.
the appointment of the new Chairman: Breakdown by gender succession planning for the Executive Directors, including Board Senior management a role profile for a new Group Finance Director: succession planning for the Non-Executive Directors: a review of Non-Executive Directors whose length of service 3 289 was more than six years: 27% 26% the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge 8 815 on the Board in respect of succession planning: and 73% 74% the skills of each of the Directors and the independence of each of the independent Non-Executive Directors prior to the 2013 AGM and recommended that each of them be subject to re-election at the 2013 AGM.
Other employees recruitment process The recruitment processes undertaken for the appointment of MikeLinn and Rick Haythornthwaite were formal, rigorous 10,437 and transparent.
Mary Francis, as Senior Independent Director, 29% chaired the Committee in respect of the recruitment of SirRoger 26,094 Carrs successor.
The Committee appointed executive search 71% consultancy, MWM Consulting and the following process was undertaken for both appointments: Men a job specification was prepared against which potential Women candidates were considered: 60 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information full details of the companys remuneration Policy and matters addressed in the year can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 65 to 82 centrica.
com cr rEMuNEratioN coMMittEE Key issues reviewed by the corporate  The role of the Committee is to determine and make recommendations During 2013, the Committee focused on: to the Board on the Companys framework and policy for the developing the Groups strategy for CR: remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Companys reviewing the 2012 CR Report: Executive Directors and other senior executives.
reviewing the assurance provided by Deloitte LLP in respect The activities of the Committee during the year are discussed in of the 2012 CR Report: the statement of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reviewing key CR performance indicators, in particular focusing on page65.
on health and safety, environmental and customer engagement Membership and attendance during the year: metrics as well as key CR strategic priorities: specific CR issues in relation to each business unit, including Number Meetings CR aspects of emerging energy issues such as shale gas and of meetings attended improving UK home energy efficiency: and Lesley Knox Chairman 5 5 an assessment of the Groups top strategic suppliers in respect Margherita Della Valle 5 5 of social, environmental and ethical criteria.
Mary Francis 5 5 i ExEcutiVE coMMittEE Rick Haythornthwaite 1 ii The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day Mike Linn 2 2 management of the Groups operations within the limits set out Ian Meakins 5 4 in the Groups delegation of authority.
The Committee also has a Paul Rayner 5 4 schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval, including iii Sir Roger Carr 5 4 health, safety and environmental policies and standards.
iv Andrew Mackenzie 4 2 Membership and attendance during the year: i Rick Haythornthwaite joined the Committee on 14 October 2013.
Rick was not in attendance at one Remuneration Committee meeting due to work commitments agreed prior to his appointment.
Number Meetings ii Mike Linn joined the Committee on 1 June 2013. of meetings attended iii S ir Roger Carr stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2013. iv Andrew Mackenzie stepped down from the Committee on 10 May 2013.
Sam Laidlaw Chairman 11 11 Grant Dawson 11 11 The Board has determined that each member of the Committee Mark Hanafin 11 11 is independent.
No Director is involved in the determination of, or votes on, any matters relating to his or her own remuneration.
Nick Luff 11 11 Jill Shedden 11 11 corPoratE rESPoNSiBiLity coMMittEE Chris Weston 11 11 The role of the Committee is to ensure that Centrica effectively i Phil Bentley 6 4 manages its impact on society, the environment and the wider i Phil Bentley stepped down from the Committee on 30 June 2013. economy.
The Executive Committee has overall responsibility for implementing Corporate Responsibility CR strategy across Key issues reviewed by the Executivecommittee theGroup.
During 2013, the Committee considered the financial and operational Membership and attendance during the year: performance of the business against the operating plan, health and safety performance, human resourcing issues including employee Number Meetings of meetings attended engagement, senior management changes and succession planning and proposed acquisitions and divestments.
Major proposed Mary Francis Chairman 4 4 transactions together with progress made on major operational Sam Laidlaw 4 4 projects are considered by the Committee prior to consideration Margherita Della Valle 4 4 by the Board.
Grant Dawson 4 4 Chris Weston 4 3 i Phil Bentley 2 2 ii Andrew Mackenzie 2 i Phil Bentley stepped down from the Committee on 30 June 2013. ii A ndrew Mackenzie stepped down from the Committee on 10 May 2013.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 61 Governance corporate Governance report continued into the key focus and considerations of the Board and its DiScLoSurE coMMittEE Committees and to better understand the governance measures The Disclosure Committee is responsible for the implementation and operating across thebusiness.
monitoring of systems and controls in respect of the management and disclosure of inside information and for ensuring that regulatory The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses and other to develop further their understanding of the Company.
Shareholders documents issued by the Company comply with applicable legal can ask questions of the full Board on the matters put to the meeting, or regulatory requirements.
including the Annual Report and Accounts and the running of the Company generally.
The Company intends to send the Notice of Membership and attendance during the year: AGM and any related papers to shareholders at least 20 working Number Meetings days before the meeting.
All Directors are invited to attend each of meetings attended AGM.
Unless unforeseen circumstances arise, all Committee Sam Laidlaw Chairman 9 9 Chairmen will be present to take questions at the AGM.
Grant Dawson 9 9 At the AGM, the Chairman and the Chief Executive present a review Nick Luff 9 9 of the Groups business.
A poll is conducted on each resolution at all Company general meetings.
All shareholders have the In addition, at each Executive Committee meeting, transactions opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed resolutions or events were considered against the disclosure obligations of the by proxy, either electronically or by post.
Following the AGM, the Company and whether any matter was considered to be price sensitive.
voting results for each resolution are published and are available on our website.
Key issues reviewed by the Disclosurecommittee During 2013, the Committee considered the release of the 2012 Mary Francis, the Senior Independent Director, is available to preliminary announcement, the interim management statements in shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal May and November 2013, the 2013 half-year results and the release channels has either failed to resolve or is deemed inappropriate.
of announcements in respect of specific projects.
Following a Our website contains up-to-date information for shareholders complete review of the Companys processes for managing price and other interested parties including annual reports, shareholder sensitive information, the Committee approved enhancements to circulars, share price information, news releases, presentations to the Companys policies and procedures relating to Model the investment community and information on shareholder services.
Further details of material shareholdings in the Company are set rELatioNS WitH SHarEHoLDErS out on page63.
The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining information included in the Directors report an effective investor relations and communication programme.
Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder Governance Statement can be found in the Directors Report in views on a number of key matters affecting the Group and receives the sections headed Material shareholdings, Share capital and formal investor feedback regularly.
Repurchase of shares and is incorporated into this Corporate During 2013, Centrica hosted presentations for the announcement Governance Report byreference.
of the Groups 2012 preliminary result and strategy update in February and the 2013 interim results in July.
Attended by both GraNt DaWSoN Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the presentations were General counsel & company Secretary made to institutional investors and analysts, including representatives 20 February 2014 of a number of the Groups largest shareholders.
The presentation materials are available on the Companys website.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director also held meetings with the Companys major shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director attended the meetings at which the annual and interim results were presented to major investors and analysts.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also met with a number of the Companys major shareholders during the year to discuss our remuneration arrangements and will further engage in advance of any future changes.
The Chairman also met major institutional shareholders in order to gain a first-hand understanding of their concerns and key issues and provided regular updates to the Board.
Rick Haythornthwaite held meetings with major shareholders as part of his induction.
In addition, the Board receives annually an Investor Perception Survey which covers strategy, management, investment approach, valuation, business performance and balance sheet management.
The Chairman is planning to hold a governance meeting in April 2014, following the publication of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013, for our largest investors and leading proxy advisors.
The overriding objective of the meeting is to provide investors and their governance specialists with an insight 62 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
