54 Corporate governance report Introduction by the Chairman Setting of strategic aims The Board is committed to upholding the highest As referred to in the strategic report, the Board engaged standards on corporate governance, protecting and in a comprehensive planning process towards the end growing the shareholders assets, and engaging in a of the financial year, which crystallised the strategy for fair and transparent manner with all of the Group's the Group for the next three years.
The Board takes responsibility for approving particularly challenging on this occasion, given the need the Groups longterm goals and strategies, and provides to realign the Groups strategy against the background of overall financial and organisational control.
The Board continuing difficult market conditions, and lack of visibility also ensures that the Groups businesses have appropriate on future requirements in the Groups key markets.
and effective internal control and risk management However, the Board now has a clear plan for delivering systems.
The detailed report below sets out how the Company Remuneration arrangements has applied the main and supporting principles of good In anticipation of the changes to the requirements governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code for reporting on and seeking approval for executive issued in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting remuneration arrangements, which came into effect in Council the Code.
I would like to draw your attention to August 2013, the Remuneration Committee engaged in some specific examples of how the principles relating to a significant amount of work this year in developing a set the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied of remuneration principles, which will be presented to in particular areas of focus this year: shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting in March 2014.
As part of this process, Ian Much, the Composition of the Board Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and I engaged Following the resignations of the former Chief Executive with a number of our major shareholders to seek their and Finance Director during 2012, Mark Papworth was feedback on the proposed principles.
Further details are appointed as Chief Executive on 5 November 2012, set out in the directors remuneration report.
and Steve Bowers was appointed as Finance Director on 7 January 2013.
In recruiting the new executive The Company has been in compliance with the provisions management team, the Board was keen to ensure that of the Code throughout the year ended 31 October 2013, the team would have the requisite skills and experience with the exception that the performance evaluation of the to deliver the recovery of the Groups operational and Board has not been externally facilitated in the last three financial performance, and to develop and oversee the years.
As indicated in last years corporate governance future strategy for the Group.
Whilst there is still much to report, given the significant changes in the composition do, the Board is pleased with the progress that has been of the Board over the last two years, we will undertake made in these areas during the year.
an externally facilitated evaluation during 2014.
In the meantime, we will continue to assess our performance and Nigel Young, who was Interim Chief Financial Officer identify areas for future improvement, both in terms of between August 2012 and January 2013, was the composition and effective operation of the Board.
appointed to the Board as a nonexecutive director on 1 May 2013 and became Chairman of the Audit Peter Hickson Committee, succeeding Roger Freeman who retired Chairman from the Board on 31 December 2013.
Nigels detailed knowledge of the Groups businesses and their accounting systems is greatly assisting the activities of the Audit Committee in its oversight of the Group's financial controls and reporting.
Peter Norriss retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in March 2013, after nine years service.
In defining the requirements for his successor, the Board recognised that it would be beneficial to appoint another nonexecutive director with specific defence industry experience, and Andy Hamment, a former executive director of Ultra Electronics plc, was therefore appointed to the Board on 1 July 2013.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 55 Further information on the Executive Committee is set out in The Board the section of this report covering Board committees.
Composition and operation of the Board The Board currently comprises three executive directors The Board continually reviews the content and presentation and five nonexecutive directors including the Chairman.
of Board papers, to ensure that the directors have sufficient The Board considers all of the nonexecutive directors to information to make expedient and considered decisions be independent in judgment and character, and considered in fulfilment of their fiduciary duties.
The adoption of an Peter Hickson to be independent on his appointment as electronic portal for dissemination of information to the Chairman.
Board has resulted in more efficient communication and improved access for the Board to minutes and other records.
Although Nigel Young was employed as Interim Chief Financial Officer for a period of six months prior to his Each director has full access to the advice and services of appointment as a nonexecutive director, the Board does not the Company Secretary who, under the direction of the consider that this short period of employment impacted his Chairman, is responsible for maintaining good information independence and his contribution to the Board continues flows within the Board and its committees: assisting with to be impartial and objective.
Similarly, whilst Ian Much induction: keeping the directors informed about changes to has now served as a nonexecutive director for a period of their duties and responsibilities: and advising the Board on nine years and two months, he continues to fulfil both of all governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the his roles as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
the Remuneration Committee in an unbiased and objective All directors are entitled to take independent professional manner, and his experience remains very valuable to the advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys Board.
expense, should the need arise.
The directors biographical details are set out on pages 48 An internal induction programme on the Groups operations and 49. and its strategic and business plans is provided for In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all newlyappointed directors.
The Company Secretary also directors are required to submit themselves for reelection provides detailed information on directors legal duties and every three years.
However, in order to ensure compliance responsibilities on appointment, and updates the Board on with the Code, all directors will voluntarily submit themselves a regular basis with regards to regulatory changes affecting for reelection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the directors and the Groups operations generally.
Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and the The Board meets at least ten times a year, and has a matters affecting the market in which they operate.
The formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for Company meets the cost of appropriate external training for consideration and approval, including: directors, the requirement for which is kept under review by the Chairman.
approval of the Groups three year plan: approval of annual budgets: The Company maintains directors and officers liability approval of acquisitions, disposals and major capital insurance in respect of legal action against its directors.
expenditure: approval of policies on financing and treasury, ethical matters, and health and safety: and oversight of the Groups systems of financial control and risk management.
All directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive Committee, including: implementation of the Groups strategies and policies as determined by the Board: monitoring of operational and financial results against budget: allocation of resources across the Group within the overall plan approved by the Board: approval of capital expenditure within limits imposed by the Board: and developing and implementing risk management systems.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 56 Corporate governance report Board activity throughout the year The Board receives reports from the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Legal Director and the Group Director of Safety as standing agenda items at every scheduled Board meeting.
Details of the other principal activities undertaken by the Board during the year are set out below: November 2012 December 2012 January 2013 February 2013 Consideration of market Consideration and Approval of 2013 budget Update on management and shareholder feedback approval of management reorganisation and business Approval of preliminary following withdrawal of reorganisation integrations announcement and annual bid approach and issue of Consideration of potential results Discussion on current trading updates business divestments Board performance and Review of draft budget for opportunities for improving 2013 future effectiveness Review of strategy for Review of updated terms international joint ventures of reference for Board committees Approval of integration of Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems businesses March 2013 April 2013 May 2013 June 2013 Review of strategy for Discussion on the Discussion on US Approval of interim results renegotiation of bank appointment of new organisation and legal and note holder financing nonexecutive directors requirements covenants Presentation and approval of new HSE strategy Capital expenditure approval July 2013 September 2013 October 2013 Presentations from Presentations from financial Consideration and approval operational business heads advisers on proposed of trading update business divestments Review of Policy on the Sale Approval of 2014 budget of Goods and Services Review of three year plan Review of strategic and Strategic Planning objectives Process Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 57 Meeting attendance The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served during the year, at scheduled meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee 11 meetings 3 meetings 6 meetings Peter Hickson 11 6 Steve Bowers appointed 7 January 2013 9 Sarah Ellard 11 Roger Freeman retired 31 December 2013 11 3 6 Andy Hamment appointed 1 July 2013 3 1 2 Ian Much 11 3 6 Vanda Murray 11 3 6 Peter Norriss retired 20 March 2013 5 1 2 Mark Papworth appointed 5 November 2012 11 Nigel Young appointed 1 May 2013 5 2 3 The maximum number of meetings which each director could Nonexecutive directors have attended is shown in brackets.
The nonexecutive directors perform an essential role in safeguarding shareholders interests.
They actively In addition to the scheduled meetings, a further three ad hoc participate in the development of strategic objectives, and Board meetings and two ad hoc Remuneration Committee monitor the performance of executive management in meetings were convened during the year to deal with matters achieving these objectives, in a constructively challenging arising between scheduled meetings.
The nonexecutive directors also review financial performance, and consider the integrity The Nomination Committee did not meet separately during of the financial information produced by the Group and the year, as the new appointments made during the year and whether the financial controls and risk management systems related matters were dealt with by the Board as a whole.
They meet periodically with the The Chairman management of the Groups operating companies.
In addition to participating in Board meetings, the four independent The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief nonexecutive directors are the members of the standing Executive in accordance with the recommendations of the committees set up to deal with audit and the remuneration Code.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of executive directors and senior management.
The Board and the Chief Executive, and their respective job descriptions, considers that the current balance of executive and are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
nonexecutive influence which exists is appropriate for the Company, taking into account its size and status.
In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board is kept properly Ian Much served as the Senior Independent Director informed and is consulted on all decisions reserved to it: throughout the year.
promoting constructive relations between the executive and nonexecutive directors: ensuring that the training During the year, the Chairman met regularly with the and development needs of directors are identified and the nonexecutive directors without the executives being present.
performance of the Board is evaluated on a regular basis: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and The nonexecutive directors have letters of appointment acting as a conduit to ensure that the views of shareholders covering, amongst other items, their terms of appointment are communicated to the Board.
The Chairmans other and expected time commitment.
These letters of appointment business commitments, which are detailed on page 49, were usually provide for a three year appointment, unless fully disclosed to the Board prior to his appointment, and the terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party Board is comfortable that he has sufficient time available to upon three months written notice.
Further details are set out commit to his role.
in the directors remuneration report on page 73, and copies www.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 58 Corporate governance report of the letters of appointment are available for inspection on Financial Officer for the Company between August 2012 and request to the Company Secretary.
January 2013, and was formerly Finance Director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc, ALVIS PLC, First Technology PLC and The papers accompanying the Notice of Annual General Babcock International PLC.
The remaining members of the Meeting include a statement from the Chairman confirming Committee have also served as executive directors of listed that the performance of each nonexecutive director seeking companies and as nonexecutive directors on other audit reelection at the meeting continues to be effective and that committees, and have extensive commercial and financial each such director continues to demonstrate commitment to experience.
The Board therefore considers that each member their role.
of the Audit Committee has the requisite recent and relevant financial experience to satisfy the requirements of the Code.
Board performance evaluation The performance of the Board and its effectiveness are The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The subject to periodic review by the Chairman.
The Chairman Committee operates within formal written terms of reference, and the nonexecutive directors consider the individual which are available on the Companys website, as referred to performance of the executive directors as part of the annual above.
remuneration review, and the Chairman and the Chief The Audit Committee report is set out on pages 61 to 63.
Executive review the performance of the nonexecutive directors.
Any weaknesses identified as a result of the Remuneration Committee individual performance evaluations are considered during the overall evaluation of the Board and addressed appropriately.
The Remuneration Committee comprises five independent nonexecutive directors.
At the date of this report, the There were a number of changes to the Board during 2012 Remuneration Committee members were Ian Much and 2013, which required the Chairman, with the assistance Chairman, Andy Hamment, Peter Hickson, Vanda Murray of the nonexecutive directors, to undertake a full evaluation and Nigel Young.
of the performance of the Board and an assessment of the additional skills, experience and knowledge that would Six scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings were held improve its future effectiveness.
The evaluation of the current during the year, together with two ad hoc meetings.
Further individual directors has confirmed that they all continue details on the Remuneration Committee and its activities, and to contribute effectively to the operation of the Board and the Companys policies on directors remuneration are set out demonstrate full commitment to their respective roles.
in the directors remuneration report on pages 64 to 85.
Given the various new appointments to the Board since Nomination Committee 2012, the Board did not consider that it would be beneficial The Nomination Committee comprises three independent to appoint an external adviser to assist with a formal nonexecutive directors.
At the date of this report, the performance evaluation during 2013, and this exercise will Nomination Committee members were Peter Hickson instead be undertaken during 2014.
Chairman, Ian Much and Vanda Murray.
Diversity Peter Hickson is Chairman of the Nomination Committee but, The Board supports the principles set out in Lord Davies in accordance with the Committees terms of reference, is not Review into Women on Boards published in February 2011, as permitted to chair meetings when the Committee is dealing reflected by the fact that the Board has two female members.
with the appointment of his successor.
As referred to above, The Board also recognises the importance of promoting the Committees terms of reference are available on the diversity across the Group, and remains committed to a Companys website.
minimum of at least 25% female representation on the Board.
With regards to the recruitment and appointment of a new Board committees nonexecutive director during the year, the Board considered The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the the specific knowledge and expertise which was required to Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee are enhance the Boards existing skill set.
A brief was prepared, posted on the Companys website and are available on request based on the Boards conclusions, and The Zygos Partnership from the Company Secretary.
who also handled the recruitment of Mark Papworth and Steve Bowers were retained to identify appropriate external candidates.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Audit Committee Director interviewed a selection of shortlisted candidates The Audit Committee comprises four independent initially, and thereafter, preferred candidates were invited to nonexecutive directors.
At the date of this report, the Audit meet with the Chief Executive and certain other members Committee members were Nigel Young Chairman, Andy of the Board.
Following completion of this process, Andy Hamment, Ian Much and Vanda Murray.
Hamment was invited to join the Board on 1 July 2013.
His defence industry and international experience were key Nigel Young succeeded Roger Freeman as Chairman of the factors in the Boards decision.
Nigel acted as Interim Chief Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 59 resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
In line with Executive Committee best practice guidelines, voting at the forthcoming Annual The current members of the Executive Committee are: General Meeting will be conducted by way of a poll.
This allows all votes to be counted, not just those of shareholders Mark Papworth Group Chief Executive who attend the meeting.
Poll results will be published on Rik Armitage Group Director Strategy & Technology the Companys website as soon as practicable following the Steve Bowers Group Finance Director conclusion of the meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Terry Bridgewater Group Director of Safety Meeting is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days Richard Dellar Group Director Sales & International before the meeting.
Business Development Jim Devine Group HR Director In addition to issuing shares, the Company also finances its Sarah Ellard Group Legal Director & Company Secretary activities through external bank loans and by the issue of loan Michael Flowers Group Director European Munitions notes.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining Stephen Grinham Managing Director Chemring good relationships with the providers of this capital, and the Technology Solutions Chief Executive and the Finance Director brief the banks Juan Navarro President Chemring North America and note holders on a regular basis on the Company and Rupert Pittman Group Director of Communications & its performance.
The Board receives regular reports on any Investor Relations issues impacting these relationships.
Mark Papworth chairs the Executive Committee, which financial and business reporting meets monthly.
The Executive Committee is responsible for The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the the executive daytoday running of the Group, submission financial statements and accounting records maintained by to the Board of strategic plans and budgets for the Groups the Company is set out on page 52. operations, and monitoring the daytoday performance of the Group as a whole.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the year into Relations with shareholders and other account, we are satisfied that the annual report and accounts providers of capital for the year ended 31 October 2013, taken as a whole, is The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional fair, balanced and understandable.
Furthermore, the Board shareholders through regular briefing meetings and formal believes that the disclosures set out on pages 2 to 45 of the presentations following the release of interim and annual annual report provide the information necessary to assess the results.
Meetings are usually attended by the Chief Executive Companys performance, business model and strategy.
and the Finance Director, although the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director did attend meetings with Internal control and risk management certain shareholders during 2013.
The other nonexecutive The Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups systems directors are also offered the opportunity to meet with major of internal control, including financial, operational and shareholders and attend meetings if so requested by major compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups Communication with private investors is achieved largely systems of internal control and attaches considerable through the medium of the interim report, interim importance to these systems, which are designed to meet the management statements, and the annual report and Groups particular needs and identify those risks to which it is accounts.
However, the systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement, loss The Companys website www.
co. uk provides or mismanagement of the Groups assets.
financial and business information on the Group.
In carrying out its annual review of the effectiveness of The directors are provided with reports and other written the Groups systems of internal control in compliance with briefings from the Companys principal shareholders and provision C2.1 of the Code, the Board considered the analysts, and are regularly informed by the Company following key features of the Groups risk management Secretary about changes to significant shareholdings.
systems and control procedures which operated during the It is the Companys policy that all directors should attend year: and make themselves available to take questions from The Board assesses the key risks associated with shareholders or address any concerns at the Annual General achievement of the Groups business objectives as part of Meeting.
At other times of the year, the directors can be the annual strategic planning process.
Following completion contacted via the Companys head office.
of this process, each business establishes a three year All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual plan and annual budget, which are subject to approval report and financial statements, are proposed on separate by the Board.
The performance of each business against www.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 60 Corporate governance report biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board on the top budget and the prior year is reviewed on a monthly basis at risks from a Group perspective, and monitors the actions both the operational management level and by the Board.
being taken to mitigate these.
Achievement of strategic business objectives and the associated risks are monitored by the Board on an ongoing The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of basis.
the Groups systems of internal control and risk management The Chief Executive, the Finance Director and other which were in place during the financial year ended members of the Executive Committee attend review 31 October 2013, and it confirms that systems of internal meetings with each of the businesses on a quarterly basis.
control and risk management compliant with the Code and In the case of the US businesses, formal Board meetings are the Turnbull Guidance were in place throughout the year and also held quarterly, and these are attended by main Board have remained in place up to the date of approval of these directors and external nonexecutive directors appointed financial statements.
Notwithstanding this, the Board will in the US.
The US nonexecutive directors are available continue to take steps to embed internal control and risk to provide guidance and monitor governance in the US management further into the operations of the Group and businesses throughout the year.
External nonexecutive to deal with any areas of improvement which come to the directors are also appointed to the Boards of the Groups attention of management and the Board.
Italian, Norwegian and Australian subsidiaries.
Procedures to deal with directors conflicts of Each business is required to comply with the Groups interest accounting policy manual, which sets out formal procedures All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the for incurring certain types of expenditure and making 2006 Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can contractual commitments.
Compliance with the accounting have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may possibly policy manual is audited by the internal auditors, who conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Companys report regularly to the Audit Committee on their findings.
Articles of Association include provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest in accordance with the 2006 The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions Act.
The Company has procedures in place to deal with and disposals, and financing arrangements for the situations where directors may have any such conflicts, which Group.
Treasury management, IT strategy, insurance and require the Board to: significant legal matters are dealt with centrally from the Group head office, and the Board receives regular reports consider each conflict situation separately on its particular on each of these items.
Reviews of the Groups pensions, facts: insurance and risk management arrangements are carried out by external advisers on a regular basis.
consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their duties under the 2006 Act: The Group Director of Safety, supported by divisional health and safety management committees, coordinates keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations and controls the activities of each business in relation to granted by directors and the scope of any approvals given: health and safety and environmental matters, which are a and key focus for the Board in view of the nature of the Groups operations.
The Chief Executive is the Board member regularly review conflict authorisation.
nominated with specific responsibility for health and safety.
Going concern The Chief Executive meets formally with health and safety professionals from each business on an annual basis.
Details of the conclusions arrived at by the directors in preparing the financial statements on a going concern basis The Group has implemented a Bribery Act compliance are set out in the financial review on page 32. manual incorporating its antibribery policies and procedures.
The Groups Risk Management Committee meets on a quarterly basis.
At the date of this report, the members of the Risk Management Committee were Mark Papworth Chairman, Steve Bowers, Terry Bridgewater, Sarah Ellard, Michael Flowers, Stephen Grinham and Juan Navarro.
The Committee reviews the key risks associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the three year plan for each business, and the risk control procedures implemented.
It also considers the top health and safety risks which have been identified at each site and agrees the action plan to address these.
The Risk Management Committee reports Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 61 Operation of the Audit Committee Audit Committee report The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups Annual statement by the Chairman of the Audit financial statements and the effectiveness of the external Committee audit process.
It is responsible for ensuring that an I assumed the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee on appropriate relationship between the Group and the external 1 May 2013, having taken over from Lord Freeman, who auditors is maintained, including reviewing nonaudit had undertaken the role for the previous seven years.
The Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and financial I believe that the Audit Committee has a very important risk management systems, and on an annual basis, considers role to play in the governance of the Groups financial the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
affairs, and I am committed to ensuring that we apply the requisite oversight to the Groups internal controls The Committee is authorised to seek any information it and risk management systems, and that we maximise the requires from any employee of the Company in order to effectiveness and assurance that can be derived from our perform its duties, and to obtain any outside legal or other external and internal audit activities.
professional advice it requires at the Companys expense.
During my short tenure as the Groups Interim Chief The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and Financial Officer, I gained a very valuable insight into its effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes the strengths and potential weaknesses of our current required as the result of such review.
financial systems, and the different challenges faced by the businesses.
I am confident that this will assist the Audit Meetings Committee with its governance role over the next few Meetings of the Committee are attended, at the invitation years.
of the Chairman of the Committee, by the external auditors, the Chairman of the Board, the Finance Director and Nigel Young representatives from the Group finance and internal audit Chairman of the Audit Committee function.
The Committee meets with the auditors on a regular basis without the executive directors being present.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
The Audit Committee plans to meet four times in the current financial year.
Principal activities of the Audit Committee during the year January 2013 June 2013 September 2013 Review of the Groups preliminary Review of the Groups half year results Consideration of report from the announcement and annual results for Finance Director on topical issues Consideration of the auditors report the year ended 31 October 2012 on the results of their interim review Review and approval of the Groups Consideration of the auditors report future tax strategy Review of the Groups revenue on the results of their full year audit recognition and contract accounting Review of policy on the provision of Review of the Groups revenue policies and procedures nonaudit services by the external recognition and contract accounting auditors Goodwill impairment review for policies and procedures acquired businesses Review of the Groups risk Goodwill impairment review management systems and reporting Consideration of accounting treatment Consideration of the Groups going of nonunderlying items of expenditure Consideration of the auditors plan for concern status the full year audit Consideration of updated segmental Review of the internal control reporting Reappointment of the auditors and environment and the auditors approval of their fees Review of the internal control observations thereon environment and the auditors Consideration of the internal auditors Consideration of the internal auditors observations thereon report report Presentation from the Group Legal Director on the Groups Bribery Act compliance programme www.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 62 Corporate governance report Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee during the year Revenue recognition The Committee reviewed the Groups revenue recognition and contracting accounting policies and contract and procedures, to ensure that they remained appropriate and that the Groups internal accounting policies controls were operating effectively in this area.
Advice was also sought from the external and procedures auditors.
The Committee considered a detailed analysis of the key assumptions made on the contract accounting treatment of those contracts which had a material impact on the Groups results for the year ended 31 October 2013, and concluded that these were reasonable and appropriate.
Impairment of goodwill and In January 2013, the Committee considered a paper prepared by management on their review other intangible assets of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets as at 31 October 2012, against updated forecasts for each of the relevant businesses.
In view of the difficult trading conditions facing a number of the Groups businesses, an updated methodology was adopted for impairment testing, which included a sensitivity analysis based on further significant deteriorations in defence budgets in key markets.
As a consequence of this review, the Committee concurred that it would be appropriate to recognise an impairment loss of 6.8 million in relation to Chemring Ordnance at the 2012 year end and 15.7 million in relation to Chemring Energetic Devices.
The Committee also agreed that it would be appropriate to include a note in the 2012 financial statements on a possible future impairment charge in relation to HiShear Technology Corporation.
In June 2013, the Committee considered an updated impairment review and concluded that it would be appropriate to recognise a further impairment loss of 15.7 million in relation to Chemring Energetic Devices in the half year results.
Going concern In order to satisfy itself that the Group has sufficient financial resources to enable it to continue trading for the foreseeable future, the Committee regularly reviews the adequacy of the Groups financing facilities against future funding requirements and working capital projections.
The Committee received regular reports from the Finance Director on the Groups financial covenant compliance position throughout the year, and was kept closely informed on the progress of discussions with the Groups banks and loan note holders regarding the renegotiation of the covenants which was completed in June 2013.
Based on its review of the Groups forecasts and detailed discussions with the external auditors, the Committee recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern basis for the preparation of both the 2012 financial statements and the 2013 interim results.
Further details on the Groups going concern status can be found in the financial review on page 32.
Segmental reporting In the first half of 2013, the Committee considered managements recommendations on an updated segmental reporting format to reflect the Groups new management and operational structure, and concurred that the proposed changes were appropriate.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 63 External auditors Auditor independence The Audit Committee is responsible for making The Committee keeps under review the level of any recommendations to the Board on the appointment, nonaudit services which are provided by the external reappointment and removal of the Companys external auditors, to ensure that this does not impair their auditors.
The Committee also undertakes an annual independence and objectivity.
assessment of the auditors independence and objectivity, The Committee has adopted a policy which states that the taking into account relevant professional and regulatory external auditors should not be appointed to provide any requirements and the relationship with the auditors as a corporate finance or similar consultancy services, unless the whole, including the provision of any nonaudit services.
Committee agrees that their appointment would be in the best interests of the Companys shareholders in particular Audit effectiveness and tendering circumstances and would not create any direct conflict with Deloitte LLP have been the Companys auditors for many their role as external auditors.
years, and were reappointed at the last Annual General Meeting in March 2013.
During the year, the Committee The policy does permit the provision of tax advisory services agreed with Deloitte LLP that, in view of the various changes by the auditors, provided that the provision of such advice which had occurred within the Group, it would also be does not conflict with the external auditors statutory beneficial for a new Audit Partner to be appointed to bring responsibilities and ethical guidance.
a new perspective to the audit function.
Accordingly, after a During the year, Deloitte LLP provided the following managed handover, Anna Marks succeeded Nigel Mercer on additional services to the Group: the engagement in May 2013. tax compliance services relating to corporation tax In the opinion of the Committee, the relationship with the returns and other overseas regulatory tax returns: auditors currently works well, and having reviewed their independence and effectiveness, the Committee has not tax advisory services relating to advice given on the considered it necessary to date to require Deloitte LLP to Group's tax structures: and retender for the audit work.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed for corporate finance services relating to various proposed reappointment as auditors at the forthcoming Annual General financial transactions, where the auditors are considered Meeting.
best placed to perform these services.
The Committee acknowledges the new recommendation in Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the Code that the external audit contract should be put out the year for audit and other services are set out in note 6 to to tender at least every ten years.
The appointment of the the group financial statements.
new Audit Partner in 2013 has provided fresh oversight of the audit process.
Given this change, the Committee will keep The Committee, in conjunction with the Finance Director, under review the timing of its next tender process but does ensures that the Group maintains relationships with a not currently intend that the audit will be put out to tender sufficient choice of appropriately qualified alternative audit during 2014. firms for the provision of nonaudit services.
In assessing the effectiveness of the external auditors during Internal audit the year, the Committee reviewed: The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors work undertaken by the Groups internal audit function, independence and objectivity: assessing the adequacy of the internal audit resource, and the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan recommending changes for increasing the scope of the and any variations from the plan: internal audit activities.
the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their The Groups internal audit programme incorporates an annual handling of the key accounting and audit judgments: and rolling review of all businesses, and focuses on both financial the content of the external auditors reporting and internal and nonfinancial controls and procedures.
approves the annual internal audit plan and receives regular reports from the internal auditors.
There are no contractual or similar obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
The Committee considers that the Groups current internal audit resource is appropriate, given the size of the Group, but will continue to monitor the position closely.
