govERnAnCE: BoARd oF dIRECToRS board of dIrectors JoHn gILdeRsLeeve CHRIs gRIgg LuCIndA BeLL non-executive Chairman Chief executive Finance director Appointment to the Board: John became a Appointment to the Board: Chris joined British Appointment to the Board: Lucinda joined the nonExecutive director in September 2008.
Land as Chief Executive in January 2009.
Executive Committee in 2010, joined the Board He was Senior Independent director from Committee membership: Chairman of in march 2011 and became Finance director november 2010 until he was appointed the Executive Committee and Investment in may 2011.
Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2013.
Committee and member of the Risk Committee.
Committee membership: Executive Committee, Committee membership: Chairman of the external appointments: Chris is a member of Investment Committee and Chair of the Risk nomination Committee.
the Executive Board of EPRA, the European Committee.
external appointments: John is nonExecutive Public Real Estate Association, and is President Previous experience: Lucinda qualified as deputy Chairman of Carphone Warehouse of the British Property Federation until July 2013. a Chartered Accountant before joining British group PLC and a nonExecutive director Previous experience: Chris was Chief Executive Land in 1991, where she has held a wide of TalkTalk Telecom group PLC.
of Barclays Commercial Bank until november range of roles in the group finance function, Previous experience: until 2004, John was 2008, having joined the bank in 2005 as group including the role of Tax director.
Lucinda was a director of Tesco plc.
Prior to Barclays, he held a broad also formerly a governor of the university of Chairman of new Look Retail group range of leadership positions at goldman Sachs, Westminster where she chaired the Finance Limited, EmI group, gallaher group and where his career spanned 20 years.
Chris rose and Property Committee.
Carphone Warehouse group and was also to partner of goldman Sachs, working principally a nonExecutive director of Lloyds TSB in its capital markets and derivatives business.
Bank PLC and vodafone group.
CHARLes mAudsLey dIdo HARdIng WILLIAm JACkson Head of Retail non-executive director non-executive director Appointment to the Board: Charles joined the Appointment to the Board: dido was appointed Appointment to the Board: William was Board in February 2010.
He has responsibility a nonExecutive director of the Company in appointed a nonExecutive director of the for the Retail sector of the Companys portfolio.
Committee membership: Executive Committee, Committee membership: Remuneration Committee membership: Remuneration Investment Committee and Risk Committee.
Previous experience: Charles joined British external appointments: dido is Chief Executive external appointments: William is the Land from LaSalle Investment management officer of TalkTalk Telecom group PLC and is managing Partner of Bridgepoint and serves where he was CoHead of Europe, managing also a trustee of charity go on uK, which aims on a number of Bridgepoint portfolio Boards.
director of the uK business, a member of to make the uK the most digitally skilled nation He is currently Chairman of the Board of the management Board and an International in the world.
Pret A manger and President of the Board director.
Prior to joining LaSalle he was with Previous experience: Prior to joining TalkTalk of dorna Sports SL.
AXA Real Estate Investment managers for in early 2010, dido was Sainsburys Convenience Previous experience: William began his seven years where he was Head of Real Estate director and a member of J Sainsbury plcs career in natWests investment banking arm, Fund management in the uK.
dido previously held senior before working extensively on private equity management positions within Tesco plc, transactions in Europe.
He was appointed Kingfisher Plc and Thomas Cook Ltd. managing Partner of Bridgepoint in 2001.
76 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE GOVERNANCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon govERnAnCE: BoARd oF dIRECToRS See management Committees P7879 For Executive Committee members biographies www.
com about-us leadership executive-committee LoRd TuRnBuLL AuBRey AdAms sImon BoRRoWs senior Independent director sId non-executive director non-executive director Appointment to the Board: Andrew was Appointment to the Board: Aubrey was Appointment to the Board: Simon was appointed a nonExecutive director in April appointed a nonExecutive director in appointed a nonExecutive director of the 2006 and became SId on 14 January 2013.
Committee membership: nomination Committee membership: Audit Committee.
Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration external appointments: Aubrey is Head of external appointments: Simon is Chief Committee.
Property within RBSs global Restructuring Executive of 3i group plc and a nonExecutive external appointments: Andrew is a group and nonExecutive Chairman of max director of Inchcape plc.
nonExecutive director of Prudential PLC and Property group PLC.
He is a nonExecutive Previous experience: Before his appointment to Frontier Economics Ltd.
He entered the House director of Pinnacle Regeneration group 3i Simon worked for 28 years in the banking and of Lords in 2005 as a Crossbench Life Peer.
Limited and Chairman of the Board of Trustees finance industry, most recently as Chairman of Previous experience: Andrew was Secretary of of Wigmore Hall.
greenhill & Co. International LLP, having served the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service Previous experience: until may 2008 Aubrey as CoChief Executive officer of the firm from from 20022005, Permanent Secretary of Hm was Chief Executive of Savills PLC.
Treasury from 19982004, and Permanent Senior Independent director of Associated Prior to greenhill, Simon held the position of Secretary at the department of the Environment British Ports PLC from 19962006 and Chief Executive officer of Baring Brothers from 19941998.
Andrew was a nonExecutive nonExecutive Chairman of Air Partner International Limited, the corporate finance director of the Arup group from 20062007 and plc from 20082012.
Aubrey was Senior division of Ing Barings.
Chairman of BH global Limited for five years Independent director of unitech Corporate until 1 January 2013.
RICHARd Pym TIm RoBeRTs AnTHony BRAIne non-executive director Head of offices group secretary Appointment to the Board: Richard was Appointment to the Board: Tim was appointed Tony joined British Land in 1987 as Assistant appointed a nonExecutive director of the to the Executive Committee in August 2005 and Secretary and became group Secretary in 1995.
Company in January 2010. elected as an Executive director in July 2006.
Committee membership: nomination He has responsibility for the office sector of the There are three additional members of the Committee and Chairman of the Audit Companys portfolio.
Executive Committee that are not on the Board, Committee.
Committee membership: Executive Committee, please see the website for full information.
external appointments: Richard is Chairman Investment Committee and Risk Committee.
of uK Asset Resolution Ltd.
He is also external appointments: Tim is a Trustee nonExecutive Chairman of BrightHouse and Board member of LandAid, the Property group Plc and nordax Finans AB.
Previous experience: Richard was group Previous experience: Before joining British Chief Executive of Alliance & Leicester plc Land in 1997 Tim was a partner at drivers from 20022007.
He was also formerly a vice Jonas, in the Investment Agency team.
President of the British Bankers Association, nonExecutive Chairman of Halfords group plc from 20062008 and a nonExecutive director of Selfridges PLC from 19982003 and of old mutual PLC from 20072010. directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77
