ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE GOVERNANCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon govERnAnCE: ouR govERnAnCE STRuCTuRE our governance structure THe BoARd THe CHAIRmAn The Board is responsible for the strategy, effective control and The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring management of the group, and is comprised of Executive and its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
He sets the Boards agenda nonExecutive directors.
It has established a number of Boardlevel and ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all committees comprising nonExecutive directors: there are also a agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
It is his responsibility to number of management Committees comprising Executive directors promote a culture of openness and debate and to ensure constructive and senior executives.
All of British Lands directors receive a relations exist between Executive and nonExecutive directors.
thorough induction on joining the Board and each individuals skills He also ensures that the directors receive accurate, timely and and knowledge can be updated and refreshed so their roles as Board clear information, essential if their duties are to be carried out and Committee members can be suitably fulfilled: further training is effectively, and ensures that effective communication occurs between provided to facilitate this.
the Company and its shareholders.
non-exeCuTIve dIReCToRs THe CHIeF exeCuTIve And exeCuTIve dIReCToRs The nonExecutive directors constructively challenge the Executive The Chief Executive, together with the Executive directors, is directors and help to develop the Companys strategy.
responsible for the management of the Companys daytoday business and for ensuring the strategy that the Board has developed All the nonExecutives are deemed to be independent.
The Executive directors work with the Chief Executive and each has a specific area of responsibility: Finance, offices or Retail.
The relatively small size of British Land means that the Executive directors are aware of, or involved in, all activities of the group.
CommITTees oF THe BoARd mAnAgemenT CommITTees The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and nomination In addition to the Boardlevel committees, there are four principal Committees which operate within defined terms of reference, available management Committees established by the Chief Executive: on the Companys website www.
The Audit and the Executive Committee, composed of the Executive directors Remuneration Committees are entirely composed of independent and senior executives: the Investment Committee and the Risk nonExecutive directors and the nomination Committee is composed Committee, each composed of the Executive directors: and of independent nonExecutive directors together with the Chairman.
the Corporate Responsibility Committee, composed of senior Lord Turnbull was appointed Senior Independent director in January executives with its Chairman reporting directly to the Chief Executive.
2013, following John gildersleeve becoming Chairman.
The following The activities of these Committees are discussed on page 78 and 79. pages contain a Report of the Audit Committee pages 86 to 89, a Remuneration Report pages 92 to 108 and a Report of the nomination Committee pages 90 and 91.
The attendance of directors at Board and Committee meetings is shown in the table on page 81.
The British Land Company PLC main Board Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors Board-LeveL Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee nomination Committee Independent Non-Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Directors management Committees executive Committee Investment Committee Risk Committee Corporate Responsibility Executive Directors Executive Directors Executive Directors Committee and senior executives senior executives directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75
