govERnAnCE: REPoRT oF THE AudIT CommITTEE report of the audIt commIttee ComPosITIon oF THe CommITTee Audit Committee meetings are regularly The Committee consists of myself, Chairman attended by invitation by the Finance director, since January 2010, and Aubrey Adams and group Financial Controller, Head of Financial Simon Borrows, members since September Forecasting and Reporting, Head of Internal 2008 and April 2011 respectively.
William Audit, Head of Property valuation, Secretary to Jackson was a member of the Committee the Risk Committee and representatives of the from April 2011 until 14 January 2013.
We are valuers and External Auditor.
other executives, all independent nonExecutive directors with including the Chief Executive, are invited to significant financial experience, as detailed in attend from timetotime.
The Committee the biographies on pages 76 and 77.
I am the regularly meets with the External Auditor and member nominated as having recent and Head of Internal Audit without management relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets regularly during the The allocation of time spent on key areas year, in alignment with the financial reporting is shown in the chart below.
Significant timetable: during the financial year 2012 13 additional time continues to be spent by we met on five occasions.
members of the Audit Committee meeting with executive management, understanding ACTIvITIes oF THe CommITTee the key issues and underlying processes, during the year the Committee has undertaken setting agendas and meeting with valuers, A particular focus each of its principal responsibilities, receiving Internal and External Auditors.
relevant reports from the valuers, Internal of the Committee and External Auditors and management and has been on the risk challenging assumptions and judgements made.
The Committee considers all significant management processes issues in relation to the financial statements, that are developing and which in the current year are considered to be the carrying value of property and investments, becoming embedded accounting for joint ventures and funds see within the Group.
Accounting Judgements on page 68, and going Concern see page 85.
The Committee RICHARd Pym performs a detailed review of the content and Chairman of the Audit Committee tone of the annual and halfyear press releases and Annual Report and Accounts, as well as interim management statements.
The Committees Terms of Reference were reviewed and amended during the year: ALLoCATIon oF TIme sPenT AT the amended document, approved by the THe AudIT CommITTee meeTIngs Board, can be found on the Companys website www.
The main 3% changes result in the Terms of Reference now 13% stipulating that External Audit contracts be put d ear shareholder, out to tender at least every ten years, that the 48% Welcome to the Report of the Audit Committee.
Committee should inform shareholders how This Report details the key activities of the they have carried out their duties through the Committee during the year, alongside our year and that the Committee should consider principal responsibilities.
whether the Annual Report and Accounts, 15% taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and We are committed to monitoring the integrity understandable.
of the groups reporting and to developing and maintaining sound systems of risk management The Committee has satisfied itself that and internal control: major changes to help controls over the accuracy and consistency 21% facilitate this through the year have included of information presented in the Annual Report the establishment of a Risk Committee are robust.
An assurance opinion is obtained see page 79 and the outsourcing of the from an External Audit firm over the Corporate Financial reporting and External Audit Internal Audit function.
Responsibility Statement and a full verification Valuations exercise is performed by management to Risk and internal control ensure consistency of information presented Internal Audit in all external communication.
Other 86 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE GOVERNANCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon govERnAnCE: REPoRT oF THE AudIT CommITTEE prIncIpal responsIbIlItIes key areas formally dIscussed and revIewed of the audIt commIttee by the commIttee durIng 2012 13 Include: monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements fInancIal Results, commentary and announcements.
and any formal announcements relating to the Companys Key accounting policy judgements, including valuations.
reportIng financial performance: reviewing significant financial reporting Impact of future financial reporting standards.
and external judgements contained within them.
audIt making recommendations to the Board regarding the External Auditor effectiveness.
appointment of the External Auditor and approving the External Halfyearly External Auditor reports on planning, conclusions Auditors remuneration and terms of engagement.
monitoring and reviewing the External Auditors independence, External Auditor management letter containing observations objectivity and effectiveness.
arising from the annual audit leading to recommendations developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the for control or financial reporting improvement.
External Auditor to supply nonaudit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance.
monitoring and reviewing the valuation process.
Annual report on the effectiveness of our valuers which valuatIons considers the quality of the valuation process and judgements, with halfyearly update.
valuer presentations to the Committee.
Reviewing the Companys internal financial controls, its The outputs of the risk register process including identification rIsk and compliance with the Turnbull guidance and the effectiveness of the groups principal risks and uncertainties and movement Internal of its internal control and risk management systems.
in the exposure to these risks in the year.
control Reviewing the principal risks and uncertainties of the business developments in the groups risk management processes and associated Annual Report risk management disclosures.
including the establishment of the Risk Committee and their Terms of Reference.
An annual report on the effectiveness of internal control systems.
An annual fraud risk assessment.
Insurance programme for property, development and corporate.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys outsourcing Internal Audit to KPmg.
Internal Internal Audit function, including its plans, level of resources Internal Audit effectiveness.
Internal Audit Charter defining its role and responsibilities.
Internal Audit programme of reviews of the groups processes and controls to be undertaken, and an assurance map showing the coverage of audit work over three years against the risks.
Implementation status reports on audit recommendations.
The groups Internal Audit function reports, including those on: property developments: European leasing: group treasury: property investments: joint ventures: valuations: Annual Report process: key financial control Broadgate Estates property testing: and accounting: accounts payable.
IT security: Reviewing the Committees Terms of Reference and monitoring other Changes to Audit Committees Terms of Reference.
Annual Report sections on corporate governance.
Considering compliance with legal requirements, accounting The impact of new regulation, including the Alternative standards and the Listing Rules.
Investment Fund managers directive and the Energy Act 2011.
Reviewing the Whistleblowing Policy and operation.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 govERnAnCE: REPoRT oF THE AudIT CommITTEE report of the audIt commIttee contInued exTeRnAL AudIToR general consulting the Auditor does not vALuATIons Following best practice and in accordance with provide general consultancy services except The external valuation of the portfolio is a key its Terms of Reference, the Audit Committee in certain circumstances, and then only determinant of the groups balance sheet, annually reviews the audit requirements of the after consideration that they are best placed performance and senior management group, both for the business and in the context to provide the service and that their remuneration.
In accordance with the Audit of the external environment, and considers independence and objectivity would not Committees Terms of Reference, the whether to undertake a formal tender.
Committee undertakes a rigorous approach no contractual obligations which would restrict to monitoring and reviewing the valuation the selection of a different auditor.
deloitte Real Estate formerly drivers Jonas process and the effectiveness of the groups deloitte provides advice on the master valuers, Knight Frank and CBRE.
In accordance with its normal practice, the planning of the 75 acres of potential Audit Committee considered the following: development land around meadowhall Shopping The valuers present directly to the Audit The performance of the External Auditor, Centre, together with occasional advice or Committee at the interim and year end review including: services on other matters.
They were appointed of results, including confirmation of their value for money: and to this role prior to their acquisition by deloitte.
valuation process, market conditions and quality and effectiveness in the Audit The Committee has considered and agreed that significant judgements made.
Committees own assessment and, where this and other nonaudit related services available, according to external regulatory provided by deloitte may continue to be The Audit Committee has reviewed the review.
provided, subject to approval by the Committee effectiveness of our valuers, based upon a The External Auditors: where expenditure is above established series of qualitative and quantitative measures independence: approval limits.
At a meeting of the Audit which consider the quality of the valuation compliance with relevant statutory, Committee in november 2012, the Committee process and judgements, with comparison regulatory and ethical standards: and reviewed the fees for nonaudit services paid against actual transactions.
objectivity, as assessed by the Committee.
and forecast to be paid to the External Auditor.
Although it was noted that the fees paid to The Companys External Auditors review the Having considered these factors, the Audit deloitte for the half year to 30 September 2012 valuations and process and report their findings Committee unanimously recommended to the were well within the stated limits, it was decided to the Audit Committee, having full access Board that a resolution for the reappointment that any future engagements of drivers Jonas to the valuers and exchange of information of deloitte as the Companys External Auditor deloitte should be subject to approval by the to determine that due process has been be proposed to shareholders at the 2013 Agm.
Chairman, on behalf of the Committee.
As followed using appropriate information.
The shown in note 5 to the financial statements, total valuation process is also subject to regular In addition, the Committee will oversee the fees payable to deloitte in the last financial year Internal Audit review, the most recent being tender of the External Audit within the next amounted to 0.9 million, of which 0.3 million undertaken by KPmg on behalf of the Company year, with the successful firm performing was for nonaudit related services, including in 2012 13. the External Audit for the year ending 0.2 million for advice and services provided 31 march 2015. by deloitte Real Estate.
In addition, further fees For the valuation of the groups whollyowned of 0.4 million British Lands 50% share were assets, the Company has fixed fee PoLICy on AudIToR PRovIdIng payable to deloitte by various joint ventures arrangements with Knight Frank and CBRE, non-AudIT seRvICes of the group of which 0.2 million was for in line with the recommendations of the With respect to other services provided by the nonaudit related services provided by deloitte Carsberg Committee report.
Auditor, the following framework is in place: Real Estate.
audit related services the Auditor is one Copies of the valuation certificates of Knight of a number of firms providing audit related The following commitment protocol operated Frank and CBRE can be found on the website services, which include formal reporting throughout the year and applied to any at www.
com investors operational relating to borrowings, shareholder and engagement of other work excluding audit performance.
other circulars and various work in respect and halfyearly reporting performed by the of acquisition and disposals.
Where they External Auditor: ouTsouRCIng oF InTeRnAL AudIToR must carry out the work because of their approval by the Audit Committee if there are during the year the Companys Internal Audit office or are best placed to do so, the Auditor any doubts as to whether the External Auditor function was fully outsourced to KPmg.
In other circumstances the have a conflict of interest: and firm had worked closely with the previous selection depends on which firm is best in addition, approval by the Audit Committee internal Head of Internal Audit for two years suited: Chairman on behalf of the Committee for prior to this, building experience and knowledge tax advisory the Auditor is one of a number each additional project over 0.1 million in of the group and its practices.
The Head of of firms that provide tax advisory services.
value where cumulative fees for other work Internal Audit and Internal Audit Partner review The selection depends on who is best suited performed by the Auditors are projected to the groups processes and controls in line with in the circumstances: and exceed 75% of the combined fee for audit and the Internal Audit programme and Internal halfyearly reporting review work.
during the Audit Charter, attending Audit Committee year no project approvals by the Audit meetings by invitation at least three times Committee Chairman have been required, a year to report to the Committee.
other than in respect of deloitte Real Estate.
88 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE GOVERNANCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon govERnAnCE: REPoRT oF THE AudIT CommITTEE IdenTIFICATIon And evALuATIon audIt commIttee members oF CommeRCIAL RIsks And ReLATed ConTRoL oBJeCTIves 1 during the year, British Land reviewed and members Position formalised its processes in respect of risk Richard Pym Chairman of the Audit Committee management.
This included establishment of a Risk Committee to oversee the revised Aubrey Adams member integrated approach to risk management which simon Borrows member combines a topdown strategic view with a bottomup operational process.
The topdown element involves determination of the risk appetite of the business and monitoring of audIt commIttee attendees exposure against this level using key risk indicators.
This is complemented by the bottomup aspect which involves maintenance Attendees Position of risk registers within each area of the business deloitte Attends as Independent Auditor to the group to provide control over identification, monitoring, mitigation and reporting of risk.
Each risk is knight Frank and CBRe Attend twice a year to present their valuations evaluated according to an assessment of its as the groups external valuers impact on the business and the likelihood of Anthony Braine Attends as Secretary to the Committee group Company Secretary occurrence and has a nominated owner who is responsible for ensuring that identified Lucinda Bell Attends by invitation Finance director mitigants, including related controls, are operating effectively.
Risk registers are Chris grigg Attends by invitation Chief Executive maintained on an ongoing basis with a review Rob Hudson Attends by invitation group Financial Controller of the registers undertaken prior to each quarterly Risk Committee meeting.
The Risk marc Furlonger Attends by invitation Head of Financial Forecasting and Reporting Committee considers the risk registers on an nicola Thomas Attends by invitation Head of Property valuation aggregated basis assessing the completeness of the risks identified and the adequacy of Jonathan Rae Attends by invitation Secretary to Risk Committee mitigants in place with a particular focus on 2 emerging risks.
Chris dicks Attends by invitation Head of Internal Audit, KPmg stephen spellman Attends by invitation Internal Audit Partner, KPmg The Audit Committee holds responsibility for overseeing the effectiveness of sound risk 1 William Jackson was a member of the Committee until 14 January 2013. management and internal control systems.
2 Chris dicks replaced matthew Stubberfield as the Head of Internal Audit on 30 August 2012.
It fulfils this role by monitoring the activities of the Risk Committee, the risk management processes in place and the activities of the Internal Audit function including their reporting similarly, findings of Internal Audit reviews on the effectiveness of controls.
The Risk are taken into account in identifying and Committee comprises the Executive directors evaluating risks within the business.
British and its minutes are circulated to the Audit Land maintains a framework of controls Committee for review, with any significant related to key financial processes which matters relating to operational risk manage the associated risks.
The effectiveness management and controls tabled at the Audit of such controls is reviewed by Internal Audit Committee for consideration.
Twice yearly the annually either through dedicated procedures principal risks and uncertainties, which are or in the course of other Internal Audit reviews.
derived from the risk register process, are presented to the Audit Committee along with more detail of how we manage risk in delivering commentary on how the exposure to these our strategy and the current principal risks and risks has moved in the period for oversight uncertainties can be found on pages 42 to 47. and discussion.
Annually, a report on the effectiveness of internal controls is prepared by Internal Audit for presentation to the Audit Committee as well as a fraud risk assessment.
Internal Audit and the Risk Committee work Richard Pym closely together to ensure that identified risk Chairman of the Audit Committee areas inform the Internal Audit programme and, directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89
