govERnAnCE: ComPLIAnCE WITH THE uK CoRPoRATE govERnAnCE CodE complIance wIth the uk corporate governance code The 2010 uK Corporate governance Code the Code is the standard against which we were required to measure ourselves during the financial year.
This Corporate governance Report aims to There is a clear division of responsibilities at The nonExecutive directors constructively provide shareholders with an understanding the head of the Company, between the running challenge the Executive directors and help of how the Company has applied the principles of the Board and the executive responsibility develop proposals on strategy: this occurs at and the provisions of the Code, a copy of which for the running of the Companys business.
meetings of the Board, and particularly at the is available at www.
The Board no one individual has unfettered powers annual Strategy day.
The most recent Strategy considers that the Company has, throughout of decision, and there is a written division day took place over two days in February 2013, the year ended 31 march 2013, complied with all of responsibilities between the Chairman and as detailed below.
the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
The Chief Executive, which has been approved main principles have been applied as follows: by the Board.
Their respective major The nonExecutive directors scrutinise the responsibilities are summarised in the boxes performance of management in meeting LeAdeRsHIP on page 75. their agreed goals and objectives and monitor British Land is headed by an effective Board, the reporting of performance.
They satisfy which is collectively responsible for the The Chairman and individual directors meet themselves on the integrity of financial long-term success of the Company.
outside of formal Board meetings, as part of information and that financial controls and each directors continuing contribution to the systems of risk management are robust and There is a formal schedule of matters specifically delivery of the Companys strategy to achieve defensible.
The nonExecutive directors also reserved for Board approval, summarised superior returns for shareholders.
This process determine appropriate levels of remuneration below.
The Board delegates authority to the also allows for open twoway discussion about of Executive directors and have a prime role in Executive directors of the Company in respect the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees appointing directors and succession planning.
of certain transactions, within defined, limited and individual directors, both Executive and In addition to the Chairman, there are six parameters.
There is a regular schedule of nonExecutive.
By these means, the Chairman independent nonExecutive directors with Board meetings, together with further meetings is continually aware of the views of individual a strong range of complementary skills.
as required by the ongoing business of the directors and can act as necessary to deal with Further details can be found on pages 76 Company this may require the directors to any issues relating to Board effectiveness and 77.
Appropriate insurance cover has been attend at short notice for timesensitive matters before they can become a risk to the Company.
arranged in respect of legal action against the such as the decision to make the 493 million Companys directors.
The Board receive reports on every material aspect of the business of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and funds at these meetings, ensuring both Executive and nonExecutive directors are kept well informed.
THe sTRATegy dAy British Lands annual Strategy Day is attended Items on the February 2013 Strategy Day by the full Board and senior executives.
agenda included: A number of presentations, delivered by oveRvIeW oF mATTeRs ReseRved 10-year vision for British Land.
Executive Directors and senior executives, FoR FuLL BoARd APPRovAL provide the Non-Executive Directors with Finance Strategy.
in-depth updates on all aspects of the Transactions and financing arrangements London Strategy.
business and provide opportunities for the over 100 million.
Board to discuss, review, challenge and Retail Strategy.
Employee share and option schemes.
Consideration is given to: The Strategy Day also provides an documents to shareholders and Annual each part of the Groups existing and opportunity for the full Board to consider Report and Accounts.
financing: and Authority levels below those of the Board.
the Group as a whole, and the overall Related Party Transactions.
80 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE GOVERNANCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon govERnAnCE: ComPLIAnCE WITH THE uK CoRPoRATE govERnAnCE CodE ACCounTABILITy key ACTIvITIes oF THe BoARd 2012 13 The Board presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the Regular agenda items included key agenda items also considered Companys position and prospects.
in the year included Reports from the Audit, Remuneration and nomination Committees.
Appointment of John gildersleeve The business model on page 14 explains the as Chairman of the Company basis on which the Company generates and Chief Executives management Reports.
on the recommendation of the nomination preserves value over the longerterm, and Board performance appraisal.
Committee see page 91. the strategy of the Company is outlined on pages 16 and 17.
Equity placing 493 million raised to fund attractive Risks, including Risk Appetite.
The Board also determines the nature and investment opportunities.
extent of the significant risks it is willing Transactions.
Ropemaker Place to take in achieving its strategic objectives, Financing.
Sold for 461 million: net initial yield and maintains sound risk management and of 5.0%.
There are formal Corporate responsibility.
and transparent arrangements for considering Convertible Bond issue Approval of year end results, the Annual how corporate reporting, risk management and 400 million, 1.5% coupon, due 2017.
Report, the Agm Circular and dividends.
internal control principles are applied and for Approval of new bank facilities totalling maintaining an appropriate relationship with directors appointments reappointments 143 million.
The key risks that the at the 2012 Agm.
group faces and features of the internal control Wereldhave Portfolio Conflicts of interest.
system that operated throughout the period Acquired for 178 million: includes covered by the accounts are referred to in the Ealing Broadway Shopping Centre.
Report of the Audit Committee on pages 86 The Clarges Estate, mayfair to 89: the approach to risk management and development opportunity acquired the principal risks themselves are shown on for 129 million.
Risk management and internal control is also discussed on page 84. meadowhall new joint venture with norges Bank All directors were reelected during the year Investment management approved.
and, with the exception of Chris gibsonSmith and Stephen Smith who resigned during the year, seek reelection at the 2013 Agm.
dIReCToRs ATTendAnCe AT BoARd And CommITTee meeTIngs duRIng THe yeAR Audit Remuneration nomination Board Committee Committee Committee 1 John gildersleeve 10 10 3 3 2 4 2 Chris gibsonSmith 6 7 3 3 Chris grigg 10 10 Lucinda Bell 10 10 Aubrey Adams 10 10 4 5 Simon Borrows 7 10 5 5 dido Harding 9 10 3 3 3 William Jackson 9 10 4 4 Charles maudsley 10 10 Richard Pym 10 10 5 5 4 4 Tim Roberts 10 10 Stephen Smith 6 10 Lord Turnbull 9 10 3 3 4 4 1 J ohn gildersleeve was a member of the nomination Committee before his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2013.
He did not attend the two nomination Committee meetings at which the candidates for the position of Chairman were discussed.
2 C hris gibsonSmith stood down from the position of Chairman of the Company on 31 december 2012.
3 on 14 January 2013, William Jackson stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee and was appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee.
no Remuneration Committee meetings took place between his appointment and the year end.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 govERnAnCE: ComPLIAnCE WITH THE uK CoRPoRATE govERnAnCE CodE complIance wIth the uk corporate governance code contInued eFFeCTIveness Company on 1 January 2013, is also Board was conducted in 2011 2012.
In 2012 13 The Board and its Committees have the nonExecutive deputy Chairman of Carphone the review of Board effectiveness was carried appropriate balance of skills, experience, Warehouse group PLC and a nonExecutive out internally, as described in the box below.
independence, commitment and knowledge director of TalkTalk Telecom group PLC.
John The appraisal process also includes the Senior of the Company to enable them to discharge is able to devote sufficient time to his role of Independent director meeting to discuss the their respective duties and responsibilities Chairman of the Company, in addition to these performance of the Chairman with other effectively.
other Board appointments directors annually, or more frequently as of directors are disclosed on pages 76 and 77. necessary.
In addition, the Chairman meets Throughout the year at least half the Board, All directors receive an induction on joining with each nonExecutive director annually excluding the Chairman, has comprised the Board and visits to key properties in the to discuss their contribution and provides the nonExecutive directors determined by the groups portfolio are available to directors, Remuneration Committee with a written Board to be independent.
The current senior managers and staff to promote a broader appraisal of the Chief Executives performance composition of the Board, including a brief knowledge of the portfolio across all levels for the year.
Similarly, the Chief Executive explanation of the experience of each director, of the Company.
Additionally, the Board aims provides the Remuneration Committee with a is shown on pages 76 and 77. to hold at least one meeting a year away from written assessment of the performance of the head office, at one of the groups key assets.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors To enable it to discharge its duties, the Board The Board considers that Aubrey Adams, to the Board, which is led by the nomination is supplied with information in an appropriate Simon Borrows, dido Harding, William Jackson, Committee.
nonExecutive directors are form and of an appropriate quality, in a timely Richard Pym and Lord Turnbull are independent appointed for specified terms and all directors manner.
The group Secretary ensures good nonExecutive directors.
In making this are subject to annual reelection.
The work information flows within the Board and its determination, the Board has considered of the nomination Committee is described Committees, and between senior management whether each director is independent in on pages 90 and 91. and nonExecutive directors, and is responsible character and judgement, and whether there for advising the Board on all governance are relationships or circumstances which are All directors ensure that they allocate matters, through the Chairman.
likely to affect, or could affect, the directors sufficient time to the Company to discharge judgement.
The Board believes that it is evident their responsibilities effectively.
Letters of The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous from consideration of the nonExecutive appointment of nonExecutive directors set annual evaluation of its performance.
The directors biographies, detailed on pages 76 and out the expected time commitment and each British Land Board performance evaluation 77, that they are of the integrity and stature nonExecutive director has undertaken alternates internally facilitated appraisals with required to perform their roles of independent that they have sufficient time to meet the externally facilitated appraisals at least once nonExecutive directors.
Following this years commitments expected of them.
John every three years: the last independent external Board evaluation, the Chairman believes each gildersleeve, appointed Chairman of the review of the effectiveness of the British Land nonExecutive director standing for reelection at the next Agm continues to effectively fulfil and remain committed to their role within British Land.
The terms and conditions of appointment of nonExecutive directors are available for BoARd evALuATIon inspection at the Companys registered office and at the Agm.
The 2012 13 Board performance evaluation Key areas covered by the evaluation: required each Director to give detailed Role and organisation of the Board.
input, by responding to a number of statements relating to the key areas Agenda.
In general the statements were strongly Non-Executive Directors.
supported and no disagreements were Executive Directors.
registered in response to any statement.
The results showed improvement when Monitoring Company performance.
compared with the last internal evaluation 2010 11, achieving the Boards goal of Board leadership and culture.
obtaining continuous improvement Board appraisal process.
The results of the annual evaluation are considered and discussed by the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the full Board.
82 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE GOVERNANCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon govERnAnCE: ComPLIAnCE WITH THE uK CoRPoRATE govERnAnCE CodE ReLATIons WITH sHAReHoLdeRs services.
Company announcements RemuneRATIon There is a continuing dialogue between and presentations are made available Levels and components of remuneration of British Land and its shareholders, with simultaneously on the Companys website, directors are designed to attract, retain and whom the Company places considerable affording all shareholders full access to motivate directors without being excessive.
importance on maintaining open and clear material information.
also raise questions with the Company A significant portion of Executive directors directly and at any time, using a facility remuneration is structured so as to link The Investor Relations department is dedicated on the Companys website.
rewards to corporate and individual to facilitating communication with shareholders.
There is a formal and transparent There is an ongoing programme of dialogue Additionally, there is an opportunity at each procedure for developing policy on executive and meetings between the Executive directors Agm for individual shareholders to question remuneration and for fixing the remuneration and the Companys shareholders, where a wide the Board, further increasing the dialogue packages of individual directors.
details of the range of relevant issues are discussed, within between British Land its shareholders.
The Companys Remuneration Policy and the levels the constraints of the information already voting process at the Agm is fully compliant and components of directors remuneration known to the market.
These issues include with the Code, incorporating votes withheld, are set out in the Remuneration Report on strategy, performance, governance, the separation of resolutions, the attendance pages 92 to 108. management and the market.
Regular of Committee Chairmen and voting by poll.
roadshows take place in the uK, Europe and The Annual Report and notice of meeting are the uS, as well as participation in sector sent to shareholders at least 20 working days conferences.
Investor days take place to enable prior to the Agm.
All Agm resolutions are major shareholders to view the Companys decided by poll and the voting results are activities and the Chairman has met with a announced to the London Stock Exchange, number of major shareholders in person since as well as being available on the Companys his appointment.
We also recognise the important contribution made by providers of To ensure they are informed, the directors capital other than shareholders, namely our receive a written report detailing any major bank lenders and bond holders.
We maintain issues which have been raised by shareholders a regular and open dialogue with our lenders to management at each scheduled Board to help us understand their appetite and meeting.
during the course of a year, shareholders are As well as the above, we undertake a series kept informed of the progress of the Company of onetoone meetings with key investors through results statements and other throughout the year, as well as responding announcements that are released via the to adhoc requests.
London Stock Exchange and other news key InvesToR ReLATIons ACTIvITIes In 2012 13 April 2012 september 2012 January 2013 Broadgate property tour.
Q3 interim management statement investor call.
may 2012 West End property tour.
Full year results presentation october 2012 for 2011 12. netherlands roadshow.
uS roadshow, new York, Boston, Full year results London roadshow.
Half year results London roadshow.
march 2013 EPRA private client broker event.
July 2012 Sheffield and Ealing property tour.
Q1 interim management statement investor call.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 govERnAnCE: ComPLIAnCE WITH THE uK CoRPoRATE govERnAnCE CodE complIance wIth the uk corporate governance code contInued RIsk mAnAgemenT And InTeRnAL ConTRoL The system of internal control is subject to The directors are responsible for the review by Internal Audit, which is has now been maintenance of sound risk management and outsourced, as detailed in the Report of the internal control systems, and for reviewing Audit Committee.
The fundamental control their effectiveness.
The Board complies with the risk management The Board annually reviews the effectiveness and internal control principles of The uK of the groups system of internal control over Corporate governance Code and follows the financial reporting, including that of material best practice recommendations on internal joint ventures and funds.
during the course of control contained in Internal Control: guidance its review of the risk management and internal to directors the Turnbull guidance.
control systems over financial reporting, the Board has not identified, nor been advised of There is an ongoing process for identifying, a failing or weakness which it has determined evaluating and managing the significant to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation risks the group faces.
This has been in place in respect of necessary actions has not been throughout the year, up to the date of approval of considered appropriate.
The process is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to The key risks faced by the group and the achieve business objectives and can only features of the internal control system that provide reasonable and not absolute assurance operated throughout the period covered by against material misstatement or loss.
the accounts are referred to in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 86 to 89.
Internal control and risk management The approach to risk management and the processes apply equally to all entities which principal risks themselves are detailed on British Land administrates, including all pages 42 to 47. material joint ventures and funds.
FundAmenTAL InTeRnAL ConTRoL PRInCIPLes APPLIed By THe gRouP defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
detailed authorisation process ensures no material commitments are entered into without thorough review and the appropriate approval by more than one approved person.
Formal documentation of all significant transactions.
System of business and financial planning, including cash flow and profitability forecasting and scenario analysis performed on major corporate, property and financing proposals.
monitoring key outcomes, particularly expenditure, against budget and forecast.
Clearly defined policies and a review of actual performance against these.
Benchmarking of property performance with external sources such as the Investment Property databank IPd.
Comprehensive property and corporate insurance programme.
84 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review
