govERnAnCE: mAnAgEmEnT CommITTEES management commIttees CHRIs gRIgg Chair executIve commIttee Investment commIttee CommITTee memBeRs key RoLes And ResPonsIBILITIes InCLude CommITTee memBeRs The consideration of: executive directors: Chris grigg Chair daytoday operational matters for Chris grigg Chair Lucinda Bell running the business: Lucinda Bell Charles Maudsley Charles Maudsley Tim Roberts performance of the groups assets Tim Roberts and the development programme: InvesTmenT CommITTee internal procedures: others: Reviews and approves capital cost control: and Nigel Webb transactions.
Jean-Marc Vandevivere matters for recommendation to other Comprises Executive directors.
Simon Carter Committees of the Board.
Anthony Braine Secretary The Committee receives and considers a number of regular reports and discusses exeCuTIve CommITTee key RoLes And ResPonsIBILITIes InCLude emerging trends.
during the year adhoc deals with ongoing management The review and approval of: reports were considered on various of the group.
matters, such as risk adjusted returns, acquisition and disposal of assets: market sectors, investor relations and Comprises Executive directors and investment in other companies, communication strategy.
partnerships and joint ventures: and meets approximately twice each month.
A separate meeting is set aside each quarter proposed capital expenditure above to consider and discuss a Quarterly Business 20 million.
This Report provides a high level quarterly performance review of the business In the case of major transactions, approvals focusing on the key metrics for Retail, offices, by the Investment Committee are subject Residential and Finance, and assists the to the approval of the Board.
Approvals Committee in considering and debating the are also subject to any other formal Board performance of each area of the group.
approvals that may be required, including those required by joint venture arrangements Principal matters relating to planning, in the case of joint venture expenditure.
directing and controlling activities are reserved for full Board approval, as detailed meetings of the Committee are also in the Leadership section on page 80. attended by the senior executives who are members of the Executive Committee and the executives responsible for each proposed transaction.
78 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE GOVERNANCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon govERnAnCE: mAnAgEmEnT CommITTEES LuCIndA BeLL AdRIAn PenFoLd Chair Chair rIsk commIttee corporate responsIbIlIty commIttee CommITTee memBeRs CommITTee memBeRs A review of the strategy and performance is presented to the Board annually, in addition Lucinda Bell Chair Adrian Penfold Chair to quarterly updates on CR progress.
Chris Grigg Justin Snoxall The CR Committee meets regularly with Charles Maudsley Sarah Cary business units and twice annually with Tim Roberts Anna Devlet managing agents and project teams to share best practice and review performance.
RIsk CommITTee CoRPoRATe ResPonsIBILITy CommITTee management of both strategic and develops and implements the Companys The business holds an annual awards operational risk in achieving the Corporate Responsibility Strategy.
ceremony to recognise the contributions from Companys performance goals.
our supply chain and staff towards achieving Comprises senior executives.
CoRPoRATe ResPonsIBILITy PAneL key RoLes And ResPonsIBILITIes InCLude The CR Panel meets twice yearly.
The Panel key RoLes And ResPonsIBILITIes InCLude does not make decisions, but challenges the delivering British Lands four corporate CR strategy and provides expert advice.
The Recommending appropriate risk appetite responsibility focus areas: Panel is chaired by Chris grigg.
There are also levels to the Board: managing buildings efficiently: four independent experts appointed: William monitoring the Companys risk exposure day, Patrick Bellew, Frances done and Kay developing sustainable buildings: against the target risk appetite: and Allen.
The CR review appears on pages 60 and supporting communities: and 61.
The CR Report is produced annually and is Reviewing the effective operation of available on our website.
risk management processes, including engaging staff.
risk identification, risk monitoring and risk mitigation.
The Committee acts as a catalyst for executive Corporate change across the business, exploring Committee Responsibilty and testing new concepts and trends and, Panel where appropriate, implementing them.
Staff and suppliers take on responsibility for implementation of the initiatives.
Corporate Challenges Responsibility CR strategy Progress against the Companys Corporate Committee expert advice Responsibility strategy is reviewed at the and insights monthly Corporate Responsibility Committee meetings.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Chief Executive on progress at least monthly.
A presentation is given to the Executive Committee to approve changes in strategy and to provide updates go online at on external change.
com crreport directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79
