DIRECTORS REPORT At the year end Robert is not deemed independent having served on the Board for more than nine years.
However, the Board does not believe that length of service is necessarily a complete guide to the degree of independence of a Directors state of mind and therefore has reviewed the manner in which he carried out his duties during the year.
In the Boards opinion, Robert has continued to demonstrate commitment to his role and to exercise his expertise in an effective and independent manner.
His period of service as a non-executive Director reached nine years on 31 March 2012 and in accordance with best practice, he ceased to be a member of both the Remuneration and Audit Committees on 30 June 2013.
He has no association with management that might compromise his independence and is standing for re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 16 May 2014.
The process of Board refreshment was continued through 2013 TIMOTHY KITE with the appointment of Richard Dakin in August.
Richard was COMPANY SECRETARY the second non-executive Director identified by Spencer Stuart, the independent executive search agency which was appointed in 2011 to assist with the recruitment of two new independent The Directors present their annual report and audited financial non-executive Directors.
Following this appointment, John Ivey statements for the year ended 31 December 2013. retired from the Board at the end of the year.
A review of the development of the Groups business during the Whilst the independence issues that were originally identified year, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and in 2010 have now been addressed, the Groups Nominations its future prospects is included in the chairmans statement and Committee continues to monitor the composition and the strategy report earlier in this report.
independence of the Board and has recently started the process of recruiting another non-executive Director.
The Board Following the retirement of John Ivey at the end of the year the An important element of assessing the composition of the Board consisted of: Board involves considering its diversity, having particular regard to the new requirements concerning gender diversity introduced A non-executive Chairman: Robert Rayne by the 2012 revision of the Code.
The Boards overriding aim Six non-executive Directors: Stuart Corbyn is to have a balance of skills, experience, length of service Robert Farnes and knowledge of the Group but it recognises the importance Stephen Young of this matter and notes the requests made by Lord Davies of June fide Moller Abersoch through the BIS on the third anniversary of his original Simon Fraser report on the subject.
Following one of these requests, the Richard Dakin Directors aim to appoint at least one additional female Director by 2015.
However, the Board does not intend this to suggest Six executive Directors: John Burns that positive discrimination will be exercised in future Simon Silver appointments and would stress that these will continue to be Damian Wisniewski made based purely on merit having given due regard to the Nigel George benefits of diversity in its widest sense and reflecting the extent Paul Williams to which the applicant can provide the set of required skills David Silverman identified at the start of the recruitment process.
Richard Dakin joined the Board on 1 August 2013.
The Board has also made the Groups senior women aware As noted in the Chairmans letter on corporate governance on of a series of external workshops aimed at helping them find page 74, Robert Farnes is not deemed independent under and navigate the route to the boardroom.
the criteria given in provision B.
The Board has therefore specifically considered his independence.
78 Governance The Board currently includes one female 8% and the gender Board mix throughout the Group is illustrated in the adjacent diagrams.
Taking all factors into account the Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independence to satisfy the requirements of good corporate governance.
A formal schedule, which has been approved by the Board, sets out the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the business.
% The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic Male 92 aims, for ensuring that adequate resources are available to meet its objectives and for reviewing management performance.
Female 8 A formal list of matters reserved for the full Boards approval is maintained and reviewed periodically.
The full Board met six times during the year and six meetings are scheduled for 2014.
Senior management excluding Directors Extra meetings will be arranged if necessary.
The Executive Committee which consists of the executive Directors plus three of the Groups senior managers met 11 times throughout the year.
Both bodies are provided with comprehensive papers in a timely manner to ensure that they are fully briefed on matters to be discussed at these meetings.
The Board maintains a number of Board committees.
The terms of reference of each committee are available on the Groups website.
Details of the membership and duties of the four principal committees that operated throughout 2013 are set out overleaf.
% Male 77 Female 23 Employees % Male 58 Female 42 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 79 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee At the start of the year, the Remuneration Committee was At the start of the year, the Nominations Committee chaired by June fide Moller and served on by Stuart Corbyn, consisted of John Ivey, Robert Farnes, June fide Moller and Stephen Young, Simon Fraser and Robert Farnes.
As planned, Stephen Young and was chaired by Stuart Corbyn.
In August, Simon Fraser took over the chairmanship in July 2013 Stephen Young left the Committee and was replaced by Simon and Robert Farnes left the Committee at the same time.
Fraser and John Ivey left the Committee when he retired on The Committee is responsible for establishing the Groups 31 December 2013.
The Committees responsibilities include remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages identifying external candidates for appointment as Directors and, for the executive Directors.
There were three meetings of the subsequently, recommending their appointment to the Board.
Committee in 2013 and the report of its activities is set out If requested, the Committee will make a recommendation on pages 92 to 109. concerning an appointment to the Board from within the Group.
The Committee met three times during 2013 and the report of Audit Committee the Nominations Committee is on page 110.
This Committee is chaired by Stephen Young and was served throughout the year by Stuart Corbyn, Simon Fraser Risk Committee and June fide Moller.
Robert Farnes stepped down from the The Risk Committee was established in November 2011.
It was Committee in July 2013 and Richard Dakin joined in August chaired by Stephen Young until August 2013 when June fide 2013.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing, and Moller took over the chairmanship.
Throughout the year, it was reporting to the Board on, the Groups financial reporting and for served by John Burns and Damian Wisniewski and Richard maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups Auditor.
Dakin joined the Committee in August 2013.
The Committees The Committee met four times during 2013 and the main responsibility is to review the effectiveness of the Groups report of the Audit Committee is on pages 113 and 114. internal control and risk management systems.
It met twice during the year and the Committees report is on page 111.
Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Full Executive Remuneration Audit Nominations Risk Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 6 11 3 4 3 2 Executive J. D. Burns 6 11 2 S. P. Silver 6 9 D. M. A. Wisniewski 6 11 2 P. M. Williams 6 11 N. Q. George 6 11 D. G. Silverman 6 11 Non-executive R. A. Rayne 6 J. C. Ivey 6 3 R. A. Farnes 6 2 3 S. A. Corbyn 6 3 4 3 J. fide Moller 6 3 2 3 2 S. G. Young 6 3 3 3 2 S. W. D. Fraser 6 3 4 2 R. D. C. Dakin from 1 August 2013 2 2 1 80 Governance Performance evaluation The articles provide that at every AGM of the Company any With regard to the requirement of provision B.
6.2 of the Code Director who has been appointed by the Board since the last an independent third party was used to facilitate the annual AGM, or who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and who did not retire at either of them, or who has held office this year following an internal assessment in 2012. with the Company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the The review took the form of a confidential, on-line meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for survey which was completed by all the Directors and the re-appointment by the members.
However, in accordance with Company Secretary.
The survey covered the processes and Provision B.
7.1 of the Code the Company subjects all Directors performance of the Board, the Committees and the Chairman.
to annual re-election and therefore at the next AGM all the The performance of individual Directors was assessed by the Directors will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for Remuneration Committee as part of the salary review process.
Biographies of all the Directors are given on The facilitator prepared a report for each body.
These were then page 76. considered by the Chairman and the chairmen of the relevant The Company may by special resolution remove any Director Committees.
As a result of the review, the Board is looking at before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a ways to further increase the opportunities available to the Director shall be vacated if: non-executive Directors to contribute to and challenge the strategy of the Group.
he she resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolve to accept such offer: As a result of the evaluation, the Board is satisfied that the his her resignation is requested by all of the other structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continues to Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than be satisfactory and appropriate for the Group.
In addition, the three in number: Chairman is satisfied that the non-executive Directors standing for re-election at the AGM continue to be effective and show he she is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill a high level of commitment to their roles.
health and the Board resolves that his her office be vacated: he she is absent without the permission of the Board from The performance of the Chairman was assessed by the meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate Director non-executive Directors under the leadership of the Senior appointed by him her attends for six consecutive months Independent Director using the responses to that section of the and the Board resolves that his her office is vacated: survey.
Last years review resulted in the Chairman offering to meet a number of major shareholders and this initiative will be he she becomes bankrupt or enters into an agreement with repeated in 2014. his her creditors generally: he she is prohibited by a law from being a Director: Appointment and replacement of Directors Appointment of a Director from outside the Group is on he she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, whilst Acts: or internal promotion is a matter decided by the Board unless it is he she is removed from office pursuant to the Companys considered appropriate for a recommendation to be requested articles.
If considered appropriate, new Directors are provided with The Directors shall be not less than two and not more than external training that addresses their role and duties as a 15 in number.
The shareholders may vary the minimum Director of a quoted public company.
Existing Directors monitor and or maximum number of Directors by passing an ordinary their own continued professional development and are resolution.
Other than as required by the Remuneration encouraged to attend courses that keep their market and Committee, a Director shall not be required to hold any shares regulatory knowledge up to date.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by All Directors have access to the services of the Company the Board holds office only until the next AGM of the Company Secretary and any Director may instigate an agreed procedure and is then eligible for re-appointment.
The Board or any whereby independent professional advice may be sought at the Committee authorised by the Board may from time to time Companys expense.
Directors and officers liability insurance is appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment maintained by the Company.
or executive office for such period and on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 81 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Powers of the Directors Conflicts of interest Subject to the Companys articles, the Companies Act and any The Companys articles permit the Directors to regulate conflicts directions given by the Company by special resolution, the of interest.
The Board operates a policy for managing and, business of the Company will be managed by the Board who where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to interest whereby Directors are required to notify the Company the management of the business of the Company or not.
In as soon as they become aware of a situation that could give particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the rise to a conflict or potential conflict of interest.
The register of Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, to potential conflicts of interest is regularly reviewed by the Risk mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets Committee and the Board is satisfied that this policy has present and future and uncalled capital and to issue operated effectively throughout the period.
debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Directors The Directors of the Company during the year and their interests in the share capital of the Company, including deferred shares and shares over which options have been granted, under the performance share plan, are shown below.
All of these interests are held beneficially.
There have been no changes in any of the Directors interests between the year end and 27 February 2014.
The Directors do not participate in the Executive Share Option Scheme.
During the year, a conditional grant of 204,320 shares was made to Directors under the Performance Share Plan PSP whilst 232,918 shares vested to the Directors from an earlier conditional award at a zero exercise price.
The remaining 44,962 shares of this award made to Directors lapsed.
Other than as disclosed in note 41, the Directors have no interest in any material contracts of the Company.
82 Governance Risk management and internal control Communication with shareholders The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in 2014 The Company recognises the importance of clear together with the controls and mitigating factors are set out on communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with pages 28 to 32.
The systems that control the risks form the institutional shareholders and fund managers is maintained, Groups system of internal control.
The key elements of the principally by the executive Directors, by giving presentations Groups internal control framework are: and organising visits to the Groups property assets.
The Board receives regular reports of these meetings which include a an approved schedule of matters reserved for decision summary of any significant issues raised by the shareholders.
by the Board and the Executive Committee supported by The annual report, which is available to all shareholders, defined responsibilities and levels of authority: reinforces this communication.
The Groups website the day-to-day involvement of the executive Directors www.
com which includes the presentations in all aspects of the Groups business: made to analysts at the time of the Groups interim and full year results, together with the social media channels that the a comprehensive system of financial reporting and Group uses, provides additional sources of information for forecasting including both sensitivity and variance analysis: shareholders.
Websites for specific developments are used maintenance, updating and regular review by the Risk to help explain the Groups current activities to shareholders.
Committee of the Groups risk register: and The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to question a formal whistleblowing policy.
the Directors and, in particular, the chairman of each Board Committee.
An alternative channel of communication The effectiveness of this system and the operation of to the Board is available through Stuart Corbyn, the Senior the key components thereof have been reviewed for the Independent Director.
accounting year and the period to the date of approval of the financial statements.
Report and accounts The Board has considered the Groups report and accounts The Board has considered the need for an internal audit and, taking into account the recommendation of the Audit function but continues to believe that this is unnecessary Committee, is satisfied that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced given the size and complexity of the Group.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Share capital As at 27 February 2014, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of 5p ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share capital and shares issued during the year can be found in note 30 to the financial statements.
Substantial shareholders In addition to those of the Directors disclosed on page 82, the Company has been notified of the following interests in the issued ordinary share capital as at 27 February 2014.
Percentage Number of issued of shares share capital Ameriprise Financial Inc 5,108,656 4.99 Standard Life Investments 4,284,390 4.18 Withers Trust Corporation Ltd 3,908,012 3.81 Lady Jane Rayne 3,593,838 3.51 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 83 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Derwent London shares held by the Group At 31 December 2013 the Group held 33,436 Derwent London shares in order to deliver the deferred bonus shares to the Directors when the deferral period expires.
Movements in the holding of these shares are detailed below: Percentage of Number of 5p issued share Aggregate ordinary capital Price consideration Transaction shares % Holding at 1 January 2012 25,322 0.025 393,757 Acquired on 29 March 2012 30,236 0.029 17.38 525,502 Maximum holding during 2012 55,558 0.054 919,259 Disposed on 2 April 2012 12,663 0.012 17.31 219,196 Holding at 31 December 2012 42,895 0.042 700,063 Acquired on 27 March 2013 18,316 0.018 21.39 391,779 Maximum holding during 2013 61,211 0.060 1,091,842 Disposed on 4 April 2013 27,775 0.027 21.50 597,162 Holding on 31 December 2013 33,436 0.033 494,680 Rights and restrictions attaching to shares Restrictions on voting The Company can issue shares with any rights or restrictions Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot attached to them as long as this is not restricted by any rights attend or vote shares at any general meeting of the Company or attached to existing shares.
These rights or restrictions can upon a poll or exercise any other right conferred by membership be decided either by an ordinary resolution passed by the in relation to general meetings or polls if he has not paid all shareholders or by the Directors as long as there is no conflict amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
These rights the meeting, or if he has been served with a restriction notice as and restrictions will apply to the relevant shares as if they were defined in the articles after failure to provide the Company with set out in the articles.
Subject to the articles, the Companies information concerning interests in those shares required to be Act and other shareholder rights, unissued shares are at the provided under the Companies Act.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Voting shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Shareholders will be entitled to vote at a general meeting whether on a show of hands or a poll, as provided in the Companies Act.
Where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands this will be treated as an instruction by the relevant shareholder to vote in the way in which the proxy decides to exercise that discretion.
This is subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting which are given to any shares or upon which any shares may be held at the relevant time and to the articles.
If more than one joint holder votes including voting by proxy, the only vote which will count is the vote of the person whose name is listed first on the register for the share.
84 Governance Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company Powers in relation to the Company issuing There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the or buying back its own shares Company, except: The Directors were granted authority at the last AGM held in 2013 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by 1,699,253.
That authority will apply until the conclusion of this laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and years AGM.
At this years AGM shareholders will be asked to pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct grant an authority to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require amount of 1,707,960 and ii up to a nominal amount of the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys 3,415,919 after deducting from such limit any relevant ordinary shares.
securities allotted under i, in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue, the section 551 authority, such section The Company is not aware of any agreements between 551 authority to apply until the end of next years AGM.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in Variation of rights connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal If the Companies Act allows this, the rights attached to any amount of 256,194.
A further special resolution will be class of shares can be changed if it is approved either in writing proposed to renew the Directors authority to repurchase the by shareholders holding at least three quarters of the issued Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be shares of that class by amount excluding any shares of that limited to a maximum of 10,247,758 ordinary shares and the class held as treasury shares or by a special resolution passed resolution sets the minimum and maximum prices which may at a separate meeting of the holders of the relevant class of be paid.
This is called a class meeting.
All the articles relating to general meetings will apply to any such class meeting, with any necessary changes.
The following changes will also apply: a quorum will be present if at least two shareholders who are entitled to vote are present in person or by proxy who own at least one third in amount of the issued shares of the class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares : any shareholder who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote can demand a poll: and at an adjourned meeting, one person entitled to vote and who holds shares of the class, or his proxy, will be a quorum.
The provisions of this article will apply to any change of rights of shares forming part of a class.
Each part of the class which is being treated differently is treated as a separate class in applying this article.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 85 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Significant agreements Our GHG emissions There are no agreements between the Company and its The new greenhouse gas GHG emission reporting regulations Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss enacted through the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover Directors Reports Regulations 2013 now require quoted bid, except that, under the rules of the Groups share based companies to disclose their annual GHG emissions.
In 2012 remuneration schemes some awards may vest following we adopted these requirements early and we reported our a change of control.
GHG emissions our carbon footprint in full across Scopes 1, 2 and 3.
Some of the Groups banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
We present opposite our annual GHG emissions profile for 2013 compared to our 2012 baseline, together with a set of As a REIT, a tax charge may be levied on the Company if it intensity ratios appropriate for our business.
makes a distribution to another company which is beneficially entitled to 10% or more of the shares or dividends in the With the widening of our carbon reporting by including new Company or controls 10% or more of the voting rights in the aspects such as fugitive emissions and a larger portfolio our Company, a substantial shareholder, unless the Company carbon footprint has grown this year by 10%.
However, we have 2 has taken reasonable steps to avoid such a distribution being seen reductions in our overall CO e m intensity of 3% this 2 made.
The Companys articles give the Directors power to take excludes Scope 1 fugitive emissions.
Please see our 2013 such steps, including the power: Annual Sustainability Report for further details and analysis.
to identify a substantial shareholder: to withhold the payment of dividends to a substantial shareholder: and to require the disposal of shares forming part of a substantial shareholding.
There is no person with whom the Group has a contractual or other arrangement which is essential to the business of the Company.
Amendment of articles of association Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the articles of the Company, the Companys articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Fixed assets The Groups freehold and leasehold investment properties were professionally revalued at 31 December 2013, resulting in a surplus of 352.5m, before accounting adjustments of 15.0m.
The freehold and leasehold properties are included in the Group balance sheet at a carrying value of 3,285.2m.
Further details are given in note 18 of the financial statements.
Post balance sheet events Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 38 of the financial statements.
86 Governance Our carbon footprint 2013 2012 tCO e tCO e % change 2 2 Scope 1 Energy use Gas total building 3,673 3,526 4.2 Oil total building 64 67 4.5 Travel Fuel use in Derwent London company cars 20 16 25.0 for business travel Fugitive Refrigerant emissions 1,000 n a emissions Scope 2 Energy use Electricity generation landlord-controlled areas and Derwent 6,289 6,220 1.1 London occupied floor area Scope 3 Energy use Electricity WTT Generated Scope 3 Indirect GHG 993 982 1.1 landlord-controlled areas and Derwent London occupied floor area Electricity T&D Direct & WTT T&D Indirect landlord-controlled 623 615 1.3 areas and Derwent London occupied floor area Gas total building 561 538 4.3 Oil total building 12 13 7.7 Travel Fuel use in Derwent London company cars for 4 3 33.3 business travel WTT Business air travel WTT 3 4 25.0 Business air travel 26 40 35.0 Water Water use total building 44 48 8.3 Total 13,312 12,072 10.2 Out of scope Energy use Biomass use total building 22 22 Intensity tCO e m turnover Scopes 1 and 2 only, excluding Scope 1 fugitive emissions 83.80 78.82 6.3 2 2 tCO e m Scopes 1 and 2 only, excluding Scope 1 fugitive emissions 0.029 0.030 3.3 2 Data notes Reporting period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 Baseline year 2012 restated Boundary consolidation approach Operational control Alignment with financial reporting The only variation is that the GHG emission data presented does not account for single-let properties or properties for which we do not have management control, and therefore are not responsible for.
However, the rental income of these properties is included in our consolidated financial statements.
Reporting method The Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Emissions factor source DEFRA, May 2013 www.
co. uk Data changes and restatements We have restated our 2012 baseline figures reflect DEFRAs new 2013 emission factors.
We have reclassified some of our reporting scopes to align with the new factor changes and best practice e. g. we have removed our biomass reporting from Scope 3 to report it as out of scope.
In 2013 for the first time we have included fugitive emissions from our managed air conditioning and chilling equipment to our Scope 1 reporting figures.
Note that these fugitive emissions are excluded from our intensity calculations.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 87 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Going concern Performance Share Plan 2014 the main features of which Under Provision C. 1.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, are summarised in the Notice of Annual General Meeting that the Board needs to report whether the business is a going accompanies the report and accounts.
In considering this requirement, the Directors have Share Plan replaces the existing plan which expires in 2014 and taken into account the following: forms part of a revised remuneration structure, details of which are given in the report of the Remuneration Committee on The Groups latest rolling forecast for the next two years in pages 92 to 109. particular the cash flows, borrowings and undrawn facilities.
Sensitivity analysis is included within these forecasts.
Resolution 21 is an ordinary resolution which will renew the authority of the Directors under Section 551 of the Companies The headroom under the Groups financial covenants.
Paragraph A of the resolution gives the The risks included on the Groups Risk Register that could Directors authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency over the next nominal amount of 1,707,960 which represents about one 12 months.
third of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury The risks on the Groups Risk Register that could be a threat shares of the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to the Groups business model and capital adequacy.
to the publication of this document.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British The Groups risks and risk management processes are set out Insurers, paragraph B of the resolution gives the Directors on pages 28 to 32. authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue Having due regard to these matters and after making appropriate in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectation that the Group amount of 3,415,919, as reduced by the nominal amount and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational of any shares issued under paragraph A of the resolution.
existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, the Board continues to This amount before any reduction represents approximately adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the Company as at the latest practicable Disclosure of information to auditors date prior to the publication of this document.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, The Directors have no present intention of issuing shares there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys except on the exercise of options under the Companys share Auditor are unaware and that each Director has taken all the option scheme, on the vesting of shares under the Companys steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make performance share plan or in connection with the scrip dividend themselves aware of any relevant audit information.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM after the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, the close Auditor of business on 16 August 2015.
The Companys Audit Committee is currently conducting a tender process for the 2014 audit.
This process will be Resolution 22 is a special resolution, proposed annually, and completed during March 2014 and a resolution to appoint the will renew the Directors authority under Sections 571 and 573 Groups new Auditor, as recommended by the Audit Committee, of the Companies Act 2006.
The resolution empowers the together with a resolution to authorise the Directors to determine Directors to allot or, now that the Company may hold shares its remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
These are as treasury shares as further described below, sell shares resolutions 18 and 19 set out in the notice of meeting.
for cash in connection with pre-emptive offers and the scrip dividend scheme where the scrip election is made after the Annual General Meeting declaration but before payment of a final dividend with The notice of meeting contained in the circular to shareholders modifications to the requirements set out in Section 561 of the that accompanies the report and accounts includes six Companies Act 2006.
The resolution further empowers the resolutions to be considered as special business.
Directors to allot or, in the case of treasury shares, sell shares Resolution 18 is an ordinary resolution to appoint a new Auditor for cash, otherwise than on a pre-emptive basis, up to an for the Group.
The appointment is the result of a tendering aggregate nominal value of 256,194 which is equivalent to process overseen by the Audit Committee which is described approximately 5% of the issued share capital as at the latest in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 113 and 114. practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
Resolution 20 is an ordinary resolution to provide the Company with the authority to introduce the Derwent London plc 88 Governance In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption outstanding at 27 February 2014 was 1,062,755 which Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of represented 1.04% of the issued share capital at that date.
authorities within a rolling 3 year period where the Principles If the Company were to purchase the maximum number provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place of ordinary shares permitted by this resolution, the options without prior consultation with shareholders.
outstanding at 27 February 2014 would represent 1.28% of the issued share capital.
Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph B of resolution 20 would be limited to allotments by way of a rights Resolution 24 is required to reflect the implementation of the issue only subject to the right of the Board to impose Shareholder Rights Directive which, in the absence of a special necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, resolution to the contrary, increased the notice period for fractional entitlements and regulatory matters.
general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM after on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, the close of business The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of on 16 August 2015. routine, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business Resolution 23 is proposed to renew the authority enabling the of the meeting and it is thought to be to the advantage of the Company to purchase its own shares.
This authority enables shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effective until the Directors to act quickly, if, having taken account of all major the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar factors such as the effect on earnings and net asset value per resolution will be proposed.
share, gearing levels and alternative investment opportunities, By order of the Board.
such purchases are considered to be in the Companys and shareholders best interest while maintaining an efficient capital structure.
The special resolution gives the Directors authority to TIMOTHY J. KITE ACA purchase up to 10% of the Companys ordinary shares and COMPANY SECRETARY specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which shares 27 FEBRUARY 2014 may be bought.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM after the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, the close of business on 16 August 2015.
The Companies Act 2006 permits the Company to hold any such repurchased shares in treasury, with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to immediately cancelling them as had previously been required under the relevant legislation.
Accordingly, if the Company purchases any of its shares pursuant to resolution 23, the Company may cancel those shares or hold them in treasury.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
As at the date of the notice of meeting, the Company held no shares in treasury.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 89
