REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Membership Considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies, Stephen Young was Chairman of the Committee throughout assumptions, judgements and estimates used in the 2013.
At the start of the year other members of the Committee preparation of the financial statements.
were Stuart Corbyn, June fide Moller, Robert Farnes and Simon In discharging this responsibility, the Committee identified the Fraser.
On 1 July 2013 Robert Farnes left the Committee and following significant issues and addressed them in the on 1 August 2013 June fide Moller was replaced by Richard manner described.
All current members are considered independent by the V aluation of the Groups property portfolio Board, having no day-to-day involvement with the Company The Committee considers this to be the major area of and not having been with the Company for more than nine judgement in determining the accuracy of the financial years.
Stephen Young is a qualified accountant and is statements.
In view of this, the external Auditor was asked considered to have appropriate recent and relevant financial to prepare a separate report on the procedures carried out experience.
The Committee has access to further financial in auditing the valuation and the results thereof.
In addition, expertise, at the Companys expense, if required.
the Committee met with the Groups external valuers before both the interim results and the final results.
These Roles and responsibilities meetings were led by members of the Committee with The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the relevant and current expertise in property valuation.
These procedures enabled the Committee to be satisfied Meetings with the assumptions and judgements used in the valuation The Committee met four times during the year to discharge of the properties.
Meetings were attended by the Groups external Auditor, independent property valuers CBRE and Revenue recognition members of the Groups senior management when invited.
Revenue recognition is a presumed significant risk under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and the Work of the Committee Committee considered two specific treatments where risk During the year, the Committee has carried out the following: may arise for the Group.
These involved the treatment of lease incentives and the recognition of profit arising from Reviewed the Groups interim and annual financial statements a transaction where the profit is conditional on future and the published interim management statements to performance.
The Committee sought explanations from consider whether, taken as a whole, they were fair, balanced management for the treatments adopted and was satisfied and understandable and provided the information necessary with the response.
The Committee also discussed these for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, with the Auditor who concurred with the treatment.
Taking business model and strategy.
all factors into consideration, the Committee was satisfied In carrying out this review, and subsequently reporting its with managements presentation.
opinion to the Board, the Committee had regard to the Going concern following: The Committee noted that this was a matter reserved for the The adequacy of the systems and controls that exist for full Board.
Having considered those factors that the Board bringing all the relevant information to the attention of the uses in its judgement such as the Groups two year cash preparers of the report and accounts.
flow forecasts, the level of unutilised, committed bank Whether the procedures for obtaining assurance over the facilities and the projected capital expenditure the Committee accuracy of the information were sufficient.
concluded that no additional procedures were necessary.
The consistency of the reports within themselves and with Management override of internal control each other and whether they are in accordance with the In the absence of an internal audit function, the Committee information provided to the Board during the year.
looks for external assurance on the operation of controls over certain parts of the business.
This is achieved by Whether the statements were written in straightforward instructing third parties which may include the external language with the use of any adjusted measures Auditor to review the control environment in a particular adequately explained.
The Committee remains satisfied with the level of assurance so gained.
Compliance with the REIT regulations The Committee noted that, should the Group not comply with the REIT regulations, it could be expelled from the REIT regime which would have a significant effect on the financial statements.
The Committee considered the frequency with which compliance with the regulations was reported to the Board and the margin by which the Group complied and agreed that no further action was required for the current year.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 113 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit Conducted a tendering process for the 2014 audit In carrying out this task the Committee took into account of the Group.
the views of both management and the Auditor.
It reviewed This was anticipated in last years report and took into the audit plan and considered the quality of the planning, account emerging best practice, the fact that BDO had been the extent to which it was tailored to the business and the Groups Auditor since 1985 and that the current audit its responsiveness to any changes in the business.
partner reaches the end of his five-year term in 2014.
The Committee also reviewed the content of the external The Committee commenced the tendering process in Auditors management letter and the responses of December 2013 and participating firms were asked to submit management to the comments made therein.
proposals against a number of specific criteria.
In the course Considered the adequacy of the Groups procedures for of preparing the proposals each firm was given access to safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the members of the Companys senior management and shown externalAuditor.
a selection of the Groups properties.
The final phase of the In assessing this matter the Committee noted the following: tendering process will be a presentation to the Committee and executive management in March 2014.
Assuming that Each year the Auditor issues the Committee with an all the firms meet the criteria for appointment and satisfy the Independence Letter which confirms their independence Committee as to their independence, a recommendation and compliance with the Auditing Practices Board APB will be made to the Board based on the quality of the audit Ethical Standards.
This is provided after the Auditor has offered.
An appropriate resolution will then be put to considered the following matters: shareholders at the AGM of the Company to be held The level of the audit fee.
The nature of other services provided to the Group and Reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee.
the fees derived from them.
Considered the need for an internal audit function and The existence and influence of any associated parties.
concluded that one was not needed given the scale and The duration of the appointment both of the audit firm and complexity of the business, but that external assurance may of any individuals involved on the audit.
be sought in particular areas identified as higher risk.
Any participation in client affairs.
Noted that the accounts for the Groups pension schemes had been audited and no matters raised.
Any financial relationships including share ownership.
Any threatened or actual litigation involving the client.
STEPHEN G. YOUNG The Company operates a policy under which the Auditor CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE cannot be appointed for any non-audit work where the fee exceeds 25,000 without the appointment being approved 27 FEBRUARY 2014 by the Audit Committee.
There were no such appointments in the last two years.
