Corporate governance Corporate governance Each year, the Board formally revisits the I believe the effectiveness of your Board in the achievement level of oversight it has over a variety of of good governance is based on the correct level of oversight, areas including strategy, transactions, good communication, a focus on risks and a commitment to transparency.
These, combined with our at management finance, people and sustainability matters.
structure and high level of involvement by executive and senior management in all our activities, as outlined on pages 48 to 52, ensures that this good governance extends beyond the Boardroom.
Board oversight and our strategic priorities Each year, the Board formally revisits the level of oversight it has over a variety of areas including strategy, transactions, finance, people and sustainability matters.
The Groups business model and strategy are outlined on pages 4 to 11.
In our Annual Report last year we identied that our strategic priorities for 2012 13 were to: recycle assets where value had been added to monetise returns in a strong investment market and make selective acquisitions which met robust acquisition criteria: continue with selective developments: and Good governance is based on the correct level drive rental growth.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, we identied an of oversight, good communication, afocus on increasing number of interesting acquisition opportunities and, risks and transparency in how we operate.
as part of our oversight of strategy, exed our recycling and Martin Scicluna Chairman re-investment priority to increase our purchase activity which we in part funded by a share placing in November 2012.
In 2013 14 we expect to maintain our selective acquisition and recycling activity and deliver our development programme as we look to maximise shareholder value creation opportunities whilst at the same time still appropriately managing risk.
See our strategic priorities on pages 10 to 11.
To ensure that risks associated with major transactions, and how such transactions t in with the Groups strategy for long-term success, are fully debated at Board level, Board approval is required for: all sales and acquisitions where the Groups share is over 25 million: any development expenditure over 15 million: any leases of 1 million p. a. or above: and any new nancing equity or debt.
100 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 In the year ended 31 March 2013, the Board had nine Following a review by the Remuneration Committee of the unscheduled Board meetings, in addition to the six scheduled effectiveness of the incentive plans that we updated in 2010, Board meetings, to approve a number of transactions.
significant we are pleased with Groups performance and believe that transactions approved by the Board during the year included: the incentives have provided a strong alignment between shareholders and the executive team.
However, one change the development of Walmar House, W1 to reposition the asset to the 2010 LTIP that we feel will be beneficial to enhance the following its purchase from The Great Capital Partnership: measurement of our performance is to increase the number the acquisition of French Railways House and 50 Jermyn of funds we use to measure the TPR element of the LTIP from Street, SW1 offering asset management opportunities in the 182 funds to 190 funds.
This will increase the total value of short-term and a longer development opportunity: the index from 25 billion to 36 billion and ensure that key the entering into a new 80 million ten year secured debt comparator organisations are included in the performance facility for The Great Victoria Partnership: measure.
buying the half share not already owned by GPE of five More details of this proposal is included within the Directors properties from The Great Capital Partnership where we expect Remuneration Report on pages 114 and 115. to grow the income in the short term and offering an attractive We have consulted with major shareholders and shareholder development opportunity in the longer term, potentially in representative bodies on this adjustment and believe them combination with French Railways House and 50 Jermyn to be widely supportive of the proposed change.
Street, SW1: the sales of Regent Arcade House, 48 Regent Street and Board appointments and succession planning 100 Regent Street, W1 by the Great Capital Partnership at In September 2012, we were pleased to welcome Elizabeth an 8.3% surplus to the March 2012 valuation: Holden to the Board as Non-Executive Director, who brings with the sale of a 37.5% interest in The 100 Bishopsgate her a wealth of corporate advisory and governance experience.
Partnership: In 2014, Charles Irby will have served ten years on the Board and the placing of 31.25 million new ordinary shares to finance will retire at our 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Having currently further acquisitions of properties with asset management served nine years on the Board, his continued independence has angles to exploit and pricing beneath replacement cost: been the subject of particular internal scrutiny and we believe his the pre-let of 40,000 sq ft of the ofce space at 95 Wigmore strong stewardship as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of Street, W1 when the development is due to complete in July Remuneration Committee and member of the Nomination and 2013, bringing forward income receipts: Audit Committees, including his objectivity and constructive the acquisition of Minerva House, SE1 providing an accretive challenge, continues to demonstrate his independence.
Following initial yield with attractive prospective returns due to its low consultation with the whole Board of the qualities and skills rents and multiple refurbishment opportunities and offering sought in his successor, we will start the process of recruiting his a potential longer term river front redevelopment: and replacement in the autumn.
Whilst the Board recognises the benets of gender diversity and will continue to ensure that this is the acquisition of Orchard Court, W1 currently let off low taken into account when considering any particular appointment, passing rents with a significant growth opportunity in an the Companys policy remains that selection should be based on improving West End location.
the best person for the role.
27% of the Groups senior managers Executive reward linked to the Groups are women with women making up 45% of all employees.
performance for shareholders See our people on page 49.
Under the Groups long-term incentive plans, the level of reward to the Executive Directors and senior management depends on the performance of the Group over a three year period.
I am pleased to be able to report that 100% of the Total Shareholder Return TSR and NAV elements of the Groups 2009 LTIP and SMP awards vested based on the Group performing in the upper quartile against the constituents of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Sector, and reecting the underlying strong financial performance of the Company as demonstrated through the trend of the Companys annual KPIs of NAV growth, Total Property Return TPR and Return on Capital Employed.
TSR for the three year period to 27 May 2012 for the 2009 LTIP award and 2 June 2012 for the 2009 SMP award was 98.3% and 96.6% respectively.
The NAV uplift for the three years to 31 March 2012 was 64.5%.
As at the date of this report, for the 2010 Award, we expect 100% of the TSR and NAV hurdles for both the annual and additional matching awards to be met and 96.2% and 75.2% of the TPR hurdle for the annual and additional matching awards respectively to be met.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 101 Corporate governance As part of the annual Strategy Review, the Board reviews the Communication with shareholders and succession planning and personal development requirements for other investors key executives and senior managers across the team.
During the Communication with investors is given a high priority by the Board course of the year ended 31 March 2013, recognising the with 235 presentations being made in the year to shareholders importance of our development programme, we have created and potential shareholders by a combination of the Executive a new role of Head of Development with responsibility for the Director team and senior management below the Board.
total return of the development portfolio including successful Independent feedback on presentations by the Executive delivery of all development projects.
Andrew White, who has Directors to all major shareholders is provided to the Nonsignificant development experience, joined the Group in March Executive Directors on a regular basis.
This year, where we are 2013 to take up this position and will report to Neil Thompson as seeking to make a change to the Executive long-term incentive Portfolio Director.
arrangements, we have also consulted with our major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies.
Board evaluation I am pleased to be able to report that we again received external In accordance with our policy to undertake the evaluation process recognition for our efforts on our Annual Report by winning the in-house between external evaluations held every three years, ICSA Hermes 2012 Transparency in Governance Award for this years evaluation was undertaken by Charles Irby as Senior the best Annual Report in the FTSE 250 and were highly Independent Director supported by our Company Secretary.
commended in the PwC Building Public Trust Awards for The process involved completion of a questionnaire followed Excellence in Reporting.
It is in this spirit that we have sought to by one-on-one meetings between Charles Irby and each other adopt early a number of changes proposed by the UK Corporate director and a meeting between Charles Irby and me in respect Governance Code in respect of: of Charles performance.
The process covered Board, Committee and personal performance and the output was reviewed initially providing a statement that our Annual Report has been with me, as Chairman, and then at the January 2013 Board prepared to ensure that, taken as a whole, the Report is fair, meeting.
As a result of the Board evaluation, pertinent points balanced and understandable and provides the information raised in respect of strategy were incorporated within the Groups necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys annual Strategy Review and wider corporate governance review performance, business model and strategy in March 2013.
Suggestions of the qualities and experience that See page 130. should be sought in the succession planning for Charles Irbys providing an explanation of how significant accounting issues replacement will also be taken into account by the Nomination are addressed, how we assess the effectiveness of the external Committee when recruiting later in the year.
Overall the process audit process and the timing of the audit tender process confirmed that the Board and its Committees continued to work See pages 109 and 110. effectively.
As a result of the Board evaluation process in 2012, this year the Board received a presentation on both potential and In addition, we have also included a number of changes proposed impending legal and regulatory changes across all areas of the by the The Department for Business Innovation & Skills in respect Groups operations including reporting, environmental, health and of Directors pay reporting which will not come into effect until safety and numerous European industry and nancing directives October 2013, including division of the report into two distinct to ensure the potential impacts on the Group are appropriately sections: the first dealing with our remuneration policy: the latter addressed on a timely basis to help future proof the business.
with the implementation of that policy during 2013 this section A sustainability and health and safety legislation risk management also includes information required to be reported under existing review is now also incorporated in the annual Sustainability and legislation and regulations : Health and Safety reports to the Board.
the policy section sets out the components of reward, how they are linked to the business strategy and reward opportunities for the Executive Directors See pages 115 to 118: and the implementation section reports on remuneration of the Executive Directors for the financial year ended 31 March 2013, and includes a table showing the breakdown of total pay for each Executive Director See pages 119 to 125.
Martin Scicluna Chairman 22 May 2013 102 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be Statement by the Directors on compliance independent of the executive management and free from any with the provisions of The UK Corporate business or other relationship which could materially interfere with Governance Code the exercise of their independent judgement.
By the time of the A summary of the system of governance adopted by the 2013 Annual General Meeting, Charles Irby will have served on Company is set out on pages 100 to 112.
Throughout the year the Board for over nine years and, as a result, his continued ended 31 March 2013, the Company fully complied with the independence has been the subject of particular internal scrutiny Main Principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the Nomination Committee considering this point in detail.
The Board considers Charles Irby continues to demonstrate strong stewardship as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of The role of the Board and its Committees Remuneration Committee and member of the Nomination and during the year Audit Committees, and brings to the role sustained rigorous enquiry and intellectual challenge.
The Board is satisfied that The Board of Directors he is independent in character and judgement, and that his The Board has a duty to promote the long-term success of performance has not been in any way affected or impaired by the Company for its shareholders and its role includes the length of service but rather that his familiarity with the business establishment, review and monitoring of strategic objectives, has only further enhanced his contribution to the Board.
approval of major acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure and nancing arrangements and of the Groups systems of internal control, governance and risk management.
Composition and independence The Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The biographies of all members of the Board outlining the experience they bring to their roles are set out on pages 46 and 47.
Martin Scicluna as Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and its effectiveness, meeting with shareholders as appropriate and Toby Courtauld as Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company, with the division of responsibilities approved by the Board annually.
Charles Irby, the Senior Independent Director, is also available to shareholders as required and acts as a sounding board for the Chairman.
Directors tenure As at 31 March 2013 Martin Scicluna 4 years 5 months 10 years 11 months Toby Courtauld Nick Sanderson 1 year 8 months 6 years 7 months Neil Thompson Charles Irby 8 years 11 months 6 months Elizabeth Holden 3 years 8 months Jonathan Nicholls 6 years Jonathan Short 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years 10 years 11 years Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 103 Corporate governance Board attendance Attendance at Board and Committee meetings by Directors and Committee members during the year was as follows: Nomination Remuneration Board scheduled Board other Committee Committee Audit Committee 1 6 meetings 9 meetings 2 meetings 5 meetings 6 meetings Chairman 2 Martin Scicluna 6 9 2 2 2 2 2 Executive Directors Toby Courtauld 69 Nick Sanderson 69 Neil Thompson 69 Non-Executive Directors Charles Irby 66245 3 Elizabeth Holden 3 3 6 6 3 3 4 4 Jonathan Nicholls 69256 4 Phillip Rose 2 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 Jonathan Short 6955 1.
As a result of a number of significant transactions during the year, there were 9 unscheduled Board meetings during the year see below.
Although Martin Scicluna is not a member of either the Audit or Remuneration Committees, in his role of Chairman, he attends key meetings of the Remuneration Committee relating to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee meetings in respect of the review of the half year and year end results.
The number in parentheses indicates the number of Remuneration and Audit Committee meetings the Chairman is expected to have attended in this respect.
Elizabeth Holden joined the Board on 3 September 2012.
The number in parentheses is the maximum number of meetings Elizabeth Holden could have attended.
Phillip Rose retired from the Board on 5 July 2012.
The number in parentheses is the maximum number of meetings Phillip Rose could have attended.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive all relevant papers in advance and their comments, as appropriate, are provided to the Board or Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
Additional Board meetings were held during the year to consider Board activities and approve, amongst other things: The Board meets for scheduled Board meetings at least six times a year.
Key matters reserved for the Board at those meetings the appointment of Elizabeth Holden see page 112 : include: the acquisition of French Railways House and 50 Jermyn Street, W1 see pages 14 and 15 and page 30 : the setting and monitoring of strategy, including dividend policy: the sale of Regent Arcade House, W1 by GCP see page 31 : review of the Groups risk and related controls: the purchase of Capital & Counties Properties PLC half share reviewing performance and implementation of the strategy by of five properties held in GCP see pages 14 and 15 and the Executive Directors: page 30 : reviewing the Groups property valuation: the sale of a 37.5% interest in The 100 Bishopsgate significant nancing arrangements: Partnership see pages 31 and 38 : examining major potential acquisitions and disposals: the sale of 100 Regent Street, W1 by GCP see page 31 : approval of major developments: the pre-let of space at 95 Wigmore Street, W1 to Lane, Clark interim, half year and annual reporting to shareholders: & Peacock see pages 16 and 17 and page 35 : approving policy on key areas including sustainability objectives the appointment of the new Head of Development and targets, health and safety and the environment: see page 102 : Board appointments and the appointment of the Company the 138 million share placing see page 37 : Secretary: and the purchase of Minerva House, SE1 see pages 14 and 15 corporate governance arrangements and the Board evaluation.
and page 30 : and the acquisition of Orchard Court, W1 see pages 14 and 15 and page 31.
104 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 At least once a year the Board reviews the nature and scale of Board induction and development matters reserved for its decision.
The only change for the current On appointment, Non-Executive Directors, who are expected to year was for the Board to have greater oversight of succession provide a time commitment to the Company of at least 24 days planning for both the Board and senior executives below Board a year, are provided with a detailed induction programme.
This level and no changes have been proposed for coming year.
covers the Companys operations, including social, ethical and The Chairman and the other Non-Executives meet regularly environmental matters, and meetings with senior management without the Executive Directors, and at least once a year the as part of a guided tour of the Groups main properties.
Non-Executives meet without the Chairman.
As part of her induction, Elizabeth Holden: In addition, individual Directors meet regularly outside the formal met with each of the Directors and the Company Secretary: Board meetings as part of each Directors contribution to the delivery of the Companys strategy and review of operations.
met with the Heads of Investment Management, Asset The Executive Directors meet weekly as the Executive Management, Leasing, Project Management, Financial Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, to deal with Reporting and Investor Relations and Corporate Finance to the ongoing management of the Group with copies of the better understand their roles and how their departments work: minutes of these meetings distributed to the Chairman and met with the auditors both before joining and, subsequent to Non-Executive Directors.
joining, before the first Audit Committee meeting: To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive met with valuers to understand CBREs valuation process: appropriate and timely information, including brieng papers undertook property tours covering over 40 of the Groups key distributed in advance of Board meetings and regular property buildings: tours which, this year, included a tour of 160 Great Portland went through the 2012 Strategy Review with Nick Sanderson Street, 33 Margaret Street and 95 Wigmore Street.
All Directors and the 2013 Strategy Review, in advance of the April 2013 have access to the advice and services of the Company Board meeting, with all three Executive Directors: and Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman on matters of attended seminars on the London real estate market, corporate governance.
governance, financial reporting and remuneration.
The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance The Directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent and pension trustee liability insurance, both of which are professional advice and are encouraged to continually update reviewed annually.
their professional skills and knowledge of the business.
Senior Managers and external advisers presented to the Board Committees of the Board during the year on a range of subjects including acquisitions, The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees developments, the outlook for the economy, the property market, which deal with specic aspects of the Groups affairs, each of the West End and City markets and potential and impending which has written terms of reference and which are reviewed legal and regulatory changes.
The Directors also individually annually by the Board.
Copies of these terms of reference are attend seminars or conferences associated with their expertise available on written request and on the Companys website at or responsibility.
The level and nature of training by the Directors www.
co. uk investors governance is reviewed by the Chairman at least annually.
The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of the Conicts of interest meetings to the Board.
Details of Committee memberships are included in the directors biographies on pages 46 to 47.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise potential conicts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks t. The decision to authorise a conict of interest can only be made by non-conicted Directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered and in making such a decision the Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Company has established a procedure whereby actual and potential conicts of interest of current and proposed roles to be undertaken by the Directors with other organisations are regularly reviewed in respect of both the nature of those roles, and their time commitment, and for proper authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new Director.
The Board consider these procedures to be working effectively.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 105 Corporate governance Internal controls and risk management Relations with investors The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups Communication with investors is given a high priority and the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, Company undertakes a regular dialogue with major shareholders at least annually.
and potential shareholders, debt providers and analysts through a comprehensive investor relations programme.
The Executive Such a system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, Directors are the Companys principal representatives with assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed investors, analysts, fund managers, press and other interested to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve parties, and independent feedback on presentations by the business objectives.
Executive Directors to all major shareholders and analysts is There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, provided to the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis.
evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: The investor relations programme is executed through a variety these processes and procedures were in place throughout the of routes and across a number of geographies, including year under review and up to the date of the approval of the roadshow meetings, meetings at industry conferences, property Annual Report, and accord with the Turnbull guidance Internal tours both with individual investors and also as group tours Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
and communication with analysts and investment banks equity Key features of the system of internal control include: sales teams.
a comprehensive system of financial reporting and During the year, the Executive Directors and senior management business planning: formally met with 235 shareholders and potential shareholders as detailed below.
a dened schedule of matters for decision by the Board: an organisational structure with clearly dened levels of Investor contact by method authority and division of responsibilities: Roadshow meeting formal documentation procedures: Conference meeting 13 the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects Property tour 27 of day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with senior Other management to review all operational aspects of the business and risk management systems: 235 the Board reviewing Group strategy and progress on 124 Meetings developments at each scheduled Board meeting: and 71 a formal whistleblowing policy.
Twice a year, the Audit Committee carries out a review of the framework of how the Groups risks are managed through operational management procedures authorisations, ongoing review by the Executive Committee, and Board review and oversight.
The Committee formally considers the scope and Investor contact by location effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and reports to the Board.
This involves the identication of risks United Kingdom specic to the areas of property and financial markets which United States 20 Rest of Europe impact on the Groups objectives, together with the controls and Rest of World 29 reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks, which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial controls, social, 235 Meetings ethical and environmental issues and policy, and the regulatory 45 141 environment.
In addition to this review, this year, the Executive Committee received a report from the Groups IT Manager on the Companys processes in place to safeguard in relation to cyber security.
Key risks to the business, how these have changed during the year and the processes in place by which the Company aims to manage those risks are included on pages 53 to 55.
106 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Investor relations programme Month Investor Roadshows Industry Conferences Other 2012 April May London Equity sales force meetings 5 June Edinburgh, US London 2 Equity sales force meeting 1 July Netherlands Equity sales force meeting 1 August September Frankfurt, Paris Berlin, US, London Equity sales force meeting 1, sell side analyst property tour, investor group property tour October London November London, Zurich, US Equity sales force meetings 3 December Dublin 2013 January London Crossrail presentation to investors February Hong Kong PRC Equity sales force meetings 3 March US, London The Executive Directors and corporate finance team also have The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an regular dialogue with our debt providers, including relationship opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, banks, private placement investors and debenture holders.
private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also meets with major shareholders, meet new Directors.
as appropriate, during the course of the year.
This year, Martin Scicluna and Charles Irby also offered to meet with major The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and shareholders and shareholder representative bodies in respect Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual General of the proposed change to the TPR performance measure under Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 4 July 2013 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 134 and 135.
After the Presentations to analysts are posted on the Companys website Annual General Meeting, the Companys Registrars will count and at www.
As Chairman and verify the poll votes.
The results will be announced to the London Senior Independent Director, respectively, Martin Scicluna and Stock Exchange and will be published on our website.
Charles Irby are each available, as appropriate, as a contact for shareholders.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 107 Corporate governance Month Principal activities Audit Committee July 2012 Review of Interim Management Statement The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board Meeting with the Valuers on the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems and the independence and effectiveness Review of Interim Management Statement of the auditors.
Each year, in advance of the half year and year Announcement end results, the Committee uses the Audit Planning meetings September 2012 Annual planning meeting in September and February to consider proposed accounting Meeting with the Auditors treatments for major transactions and significant reporting Review of: judgements and key assumptions therein.
The Audit Committee reviews formally the performance of the auditors annually, and effectiveness and independence of the in the opinion of the Audit Committee, the relationship with the auditors see page 110 auditors works well.
The Committee remains satisfied with the 2012 management letter auditors independence and effectiveness and has significant accounting, reporting and recommended to the Board that they be reappointed.
judgement matters see page 109 Chairman: 2013 Audit Plan Jonathan Nicholls conrmation of new audit partner Members: from 2013 Elizabeth Holden November 2012 Review of half year results Charles Irby Meeting with the Valuers Jonathan Short Meeting with the Auditors Review of: significant accounting, reporting and judgement matters see page 109 Jonathan Nicholls was previously Group Finance Director of the Groups tax matters with the Head of Old Mutual plc and Hanson plc and is Chairman of the Audit Corporate Finance Committee of SIG plc and D S Smith plc.
The Audit Committee internal controls and risk management provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external auditors process and meetings are also attended by certain Executive Directors half year result announcement and Senior Managers by invitation.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also attends the Committee meetings in connection with the half January 2013 Review of Interim Management Statement year and year-end results.
Meeting with the Valuers The Committee is responsible for reviewing, and reporting to the Review of: Board on, a range of matters including: Interim Management Statement Announcement the interim management statements, the half year and annual financial statements and significant reporting judgements and the effectiveness of the Committee key assumptions therein: through the Board evaluation process meetings with the Groups auditors and property valuers: developments in accounting and reporting requirements: the review of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: the Groups systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and reports on non-compliance: the Groups whistleblowing policy: the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external audit: the external auditors management letter: the level of fees paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services: the potential need for an internal audit function: and the recommendation for the reappointment of the auditors based on continued satisfactory performance.
108 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Month Principal activities Accounting and key areas of judgement February 2013 Year-end planning update The Audit Committee uses the Audit Planning meetings in September and February each year to consider proposed Meeting with the Auditors accounting treatments for major transactions, significant reporting Review of: judgements and key assumptions therein in advance of the half Group forecasting processes review year and year-end results.
by Deloitte As the valuation of the Groups portfolio is fundamental to the significant accounting, reporting and Groups balance sheet, the Audit Committee, together with judgement matters see opposite Martin Scicluna, meets with the valuers along with the auditors developments in accounting and to discuss the valuation included within the half year and reporting requirements and proposed year-end financial statements and changes in market conditions.
disclosure in the 2013 Annual Report in The external auditors meet with the valuers separately from relation to changes in the UK Corporate the Audit Committee and provide the Audit Committee with Governance Code and The Department a summary of their review as part of their report on the half of Business Innovation and Skills year and year-end results.
The Audit Committee meets with Directors Remuneration Reforms the valuers to discuss the valuation included in the interim Audit Plan update management statements.
Agreement of 2013 Audit fee For the year ended 31 March 2013, the accounting for the sell May 2013 Review of year end results down of the 37.5% interest in The 100 Bishopsgate Partnership Meeting with the Valuers was specically reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The review included the treatment of the remaining 12.5% equity interest Meeting with the Auditors Other investment note 12, Partnership loans Other investment Review of: note 12, Loan payable to Brookeld included in Loans and significant accounting, reporting and borrowings note 16, put option fair value recognised through the judgement matters see opposite profit and loss and deferred consideration included in Debtors the Groups tax matters with the Head of note 14.
In addition, due to the intricacies of the accounting, Corporate Finance particularly during the 24 month option period, managements treatment of the sell down has been reviewed in detail by internal controls and risk management Deloittes financial instruments specialists who have agreed with process see pages 52 to 55 managements approach.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the potential need for internal audit and concurred with the methodology supporting this matter.
Annual Report Preliminary Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that they were Announcement not aware of any misstatements, either material or immaterial, Ethics policy and Whistleblowing policy made to achieve a particular presentation.
The Auditors reported see page 57 to the Audit Committee that they had found no misstatements the Committees effectiveness in the course of their work.
relationship between the auditors and After reviewing the reports from management and consulting GPE management where necessary with the auditors and valuers, the Audit reappointment of the auditors Committee is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the processes used for determining the value of the assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are sufciently robust.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 109 Corporate governance is required by the Audit Committee for assignments over The external audit, review of its effectiveness, 50,000, or where such an assignment would take the non-audit services and auditor reappointment cumulative total of non-audit fees paid to the external The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of auditors over 50% of that years audit fees to ensure auditor the external auditors, their remuneration for audit and non-audit independence and objectivity is maintained.
Drivers Jonas, which work, and their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity, was acquired by Deloitte LLP in 2010, and renamed Deloitte and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the Real Estate, on occasions provides the Group and the Groups external auditors.
As part of the review of the effectiveness of the joint ventures with advice on rights of light, party walls and other external audit process, a formal evaluation process incorporating items involving adjoining owners or third parties neighbourly views from the Audit Committee and relevant members of matters.
Fees paid to Deloitte Real Estate by both the Group management is considered by the Audit Committee and feedback and the joint ventures are, therefore, also monitored by the is provided to the auditors.
Areas covered by this review include: Audit Committee.
the calibre of the external audit rm including reputation, During the year activities undertaken by the auditors for the coverage and industry presence: Group outside of the main audit included: quality controls including review processes, partner oversight, reporting on the income cover in connection with the debenture reports from the Audit Inspection Units and regulators, and use trust deed compliance certicate: of specialists: advice on the application of tax legislation on property the audit team covering quality of individuals, knowledge, transactions: resources, partner involvement, team rotation, the audit scope including planning and execution, scope adequacy and neighbourly matters undertaken by Deloitte Real Estate specialist areas: at 73 89 Oxford Street, W1: audit fee reasonableness and scope changes: assurance on achievement against 2012 13 sustainability objectives and targets and energy consumption data: and audit communications and effectiveness planning, new developments regulations, approach to critical accounting ad hoc accounting advice.
policies, issues and risks, quality of processes: timely resolution Payments made by the Group for audit and non-audit fees for the of issues: freedom of communication with the Audit Committee year are disclosed on page 76.
Deloitte LLP has confirmed to the and feedback on management performance: Audit Committee that it remains independent and has maintained governance and independence internal governance internal safeguards to ensure its objectivity.
arrangements, lines of communication with the Audit Deloitte LLP has been the Groups auditor since 2003.
It is a Committee: integrity of the Audit team, Audit Committee requirement that the audit partner responsible for the Group confidence in the audit team and transparency: and subsidiary audits is rotated every five years and a new lead ethical standards including conicts of interest, non-audit audit partner will take responsibility for the audit in June 2013. work and partner rotation: and The Audit Committee is mindful that under the UK Corporate potential impairment of independence by non-audit fee income.
Governance Code, the audit should be put out for tender every ten years: however, the exact timing remains at its discretion.
The Committee also considers the effectiveness of management Under the transitional arrangements of the UK Corporate in the external audit process in respect of the timely identication Governance Code, the latest date the Audit Committee would and resolution of areas of accounting judgement with input from need to consider putting out the audit tender is 2023, however, the auditors and the Audit Committee as appropriate: and the the Committee will consider the tender of the audit annually timely provision of the draft Half year results announcement depending on the auditors performance.
In the opinion of the and Annual Report and Accounts for review by the auditors Audit Committee, the relationship with the auditors works well and the Committee.
and the Committee remains satisfied with their independence In addition to the review of the formal management letter from and effectiveness.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the auditors which outlines how points raised by the auditors have the Companys choice of external auditor.
been addressed by management, feedback is sought from the auditors on the conduct of members of the finance team during Internal audit the audit process.
Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an The auditors are responsible for the annual statutory audit and internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review other services which the Audit Committee believe they are best by the Committee.
Although there is no formal internal audit placed to undertake due to their position as auditors.
Under the function, a rolling programme of review of key controls is Groups policy in respect of non-audit services permitted to be conducted through a combination of the external audit process provided by the external auditor available from the Companys or through reviews by members of the finance team and or website at www.
co. uk investors governance, prior approval external advisors as appropriate.
110 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Month Principal activities Remuneration Committee May Review of the 2009 LTIP and SMP The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining June 2012 performance and vesting of awards the remuneration, bonuses, long-term incentive arrangements, see pages 123 and 124 contract terms and other benets in respect of the Executive October 2012 Review of the new Head of Developments Directors and approval of remuneration arrangements for senior remuneration package employees and the Chairman.
It also reviews the framework for January 2013 Review of executive remuneration and BIS the remuneration of all other employees.
No significant changes proposals in respect of executive pay have been made to the Groups remuneration structure during the year.
From 1 April 2014 we are proposing to increase Review of the effectiveness of the Committee through the Board evaluation process the number of funds included in the calculation of the Total Property Return benchmark used for the annual bonus plan February Review of proposed changes to executive and Long-Term Incentive Plan so as to provide a more robust March 2013 remuneration arrangements see page 114 and representative comparator for our relative performance.
March Consultation with major shareholders, the ABI April 2013 and RiskMetrics on executive remuneration Chairman: arrangements see pages 114 Charles Irby April 2013 Review of: Members: proposed salary increases across the Group Elizabeth Holden year end appraisals of Executive Directors, Jonathan Nicholls Investment Director and Company Secretary Jonathan Short and their objectives and targets set for forthcoming year Senior Manager bonuses Senior Manager salary, bonus and long-term incentive levels for forthcoming year The Committee has access to professional advice outside the Approval of: Company, as required.
Its role is described further in the Directors remuneration report on pages 113 to 127.
Executive Director, Investment Director and Company Secretary discretionary bonuses Executive Director, Investment Director and Company Secretary salary, bonus and long-term incentive levels for forthcoming year May 2013 Review and approval of: Executive Director corporate bonus plan targets Chairmans fees for 2013 14 2013 Remuneration Report see pages 113 to 127 2013 Performance and Matching share awards Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 111 Corporate governance Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for specified terms, Nomination Committee but following the UK Corporate Governance Code are subject to The Nomination Committee undertakes an annual review of annual re-election and all proposed reappointments to the Board succession planning and ensures that the membership and are formally considered by the Nomination Committee in respect composition of the Board, including the balance of the skills, of each individuals continued effectiveness and commitment to continue to be appropriate.
This year, our focus has been on the the role.
appointment of the new Non-Executive Director, succession and In anticipation of Phillip Roses retirement from the Board at the development plans for the senior management team and the 2012 Annual General Meeting, and prior to external recruitment timely succession planning for Charles Irby.
consultants, Egon Zehnder, being appointed for the search of a new Non-Executive Director to succeed him, the role of new Chairman: Non-Executive Director and the qualities sought for that role were Martin Scicluna agreed with the Board.
Following Lord Daviess report, in view Members: of the Boards commitment to diversity, it was agreed that Egon Charles Irby Zehnder be requested to ensure that women candidates of Jonathan Nicholls equal merit be included in the long list for consideration by the Nomination Committee.
Egon Zehnder have no other connection with the Company.
Subsequent to interviews of a short list of candidates, rstly by Martin Scicluna and Jonathan Nicholls, and then by the other Non-Executive and Executive Directors where appropriate, a recommendation was made to the Board that, The Nomination Committee is chaired by Martin Scicluna and based on her significant mergers and acquisitions, legal and includes the Senior Independent Director.
In making any Board corporate governance experience, together with her boardroom appointments, the Nomination Committee also consults with the experience advising clients as a partner at Slaughter and May, Chief Executive and other members of the Board as appropriate.
Elizabeth Holden be appointed to the Board, the Audit and the Remuneration Committees.
Month Principal activities The Nomination Committee has continued to choose not to set June 2012 Recommendation to the Board that Elizabeth specic representation targets for women at Board level at this Holden be appointed as Non-Executive time.
However, the benets of diversity, including gender diversity, Director see pages 128 will continue to be an active consideration whenever changes to January 2013 Review of the effectiveness of the Committee the Boards composition are contemplated, as they were in the through the Board evaluation process process that led to the appointment of Elizabeth Holden.
February 2013 Review of: In light of Charles Irby having served on the Board for nine years reappointments to the Board to be proposed by the time of the 2013 Annual General meeting, Martin Scicluna, at the 2013 Annual General Meeting as Chairman of the Nomination Committee, separately consulted feedback obtained from the Board as to with each of the Directors on Charles Irbys performance and it suggestions of the qualities and experience was unanimously concluded both that he remained an effective that should be sought in the succession independent Director, and that the Board supported his planning for Charles Irbys replacement reappointment for another year.
In light of the desire to provide for Committee memberships an orderly succession, it has been agreed that Charles Irby will 2014 Board evaluation process and timing retire at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and recruitment of his successor will begin this summer.
April 2013 Review of: role and qualities sought of the NonAs part of the Board evaluation process in January 2013, Executive Director to replace Charles Irby Charles Irby as Senior Independent Director led a review of the succession and development plans for the Chairmans performance which concluded that the Chairman has Executive Directors and key senior managers a good working relationship with each of the Executive Directors with the Chief Executive and encouraged discussion and debate between the members of the Board.
In making recommendations to the Board on Non-Executive Following a review of the composition of the Board and its Directors, the Nomination Committee specically considers the Committees, it was agreed that no other changes should be made.
expected time commitment of the proposed Non-Executive and other commitments they already have.
Agreement of the Board By order of the Board is also required before a Non-Executive Director may accept any additional commitments to ensure possible conicts of interest are identied and that they will continue to have sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
Desna Martin Company Secretary 22 May 2013 112 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Directors remuneration report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the The Companys remuneration policy Remuneration Committees report of the Directors remuneration seeksto provide remuneration in a form for the year ended 31 March 2013 for which we will be seeking approval at the Annual General Meeting on 4 July 2013. toattract, retain and motivate high calibre executives, with an emphasis on delivering Key strategic priorities and how our remuneration structure is designed to support these greater variable reward for achieving and The strategy of the Group continues to be to generate superior exceeding the Groups strategic priorities portfolio and shareholder returns in central London real estate through our intense, customer focused approach to managing our and KPI benchmarks.
properties combined with an effective reading of the property cycle, across a market that we know inside out.
In order to deliver this strategy, our strategic priorities for the year ended 31 March 2013 were focused on: Recycling and re-investment: Selective development: and Driving rental growth.
As set out on page 10, these strategic priorities were achieved during the year and resulted in the outperformance of all our KPI benchmarks.
The Great Portland Estates 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2010 Plan approved by shareholders in July 2010 was introduced to simplify the Groups Long-Term Incentive and Share Matching awards and improve alignment of executive incentives with the Companys strategy.
The 2010 Plan uses three of our To ensure alignment of executive incentives key fundamental performance indicators to measure the Groups withthe Companys strategy, three of our performance, being: keyperformance indicators are usedinour Absolute net asset per share growth NAV growth : long-term incentive plan.
Relative total shareholder return TSR : and Charles Irby Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Relative total property return TPR.
see page 20 to 21 of more details on our Key Performance Indicators During the year, the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and an explanation of the review process and proposals are detailed below.
Remuneration policy principles The Executive Directors total pay is analysed by looking across each of the different elements of remuneration including salary, pension, the annual bonus plan and long-term incentives to provide the Remuneration Committee the Committee with a total remuneration view rather than just the competitiveness of the individual elements.
It is important that the Groups remuneration policy reinforces the Companys goals, providing effective incentives for exceptional Group and individual performance with significant upward and downward variability from median based on performance.
As well as providing motivation to perform, remuneration plays an important retention role and needs to be competitive with alternative employment opportunities, in particular at a time in the central London property cycle where demands on the Executive Directors and employees are high and there is a scarcity value on proven performers.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 113 Directors remuneration report To achieve the aims of the Companys remuneration policy, Annual Bonus Plan the Committee seeks to position xed remuneration including One of the current performance conditions for the annual bonus benets and pension at or below market and total executive plan for the Executive Directors compares the Groups annual remuneration around mid-market for on-target performance portfolio capital growth to annual capital growth of the IPD taking into account the size and complexity of the business Central and Inner London Quarterly Index.
As a result of the as compared to other peer companies in the sector, using a proposed change to the long-term incentive arrangements set significant proportion of variable reward to increase total potential out below, in order to ensure consistency between our incentive remuneration for superior performance through the annual bonus schemes, it is proposed to move from the current benchmark to plan and long-term incentives.
the IPD Central and Inner London March Valued Index, which contains a more comparable fund universe whilst maintaining the 2012 13 overview current outperformance payout schedule.
No changes were made to the Groups remuneration structure No other changes to the performance measures are proposed for in the year ended 31 March 2013. the Annual Bonus Plan for the year ending 30 March 2014.
Basic salaries for Executive Directors were increased by 3%, 2010 LTIP in line with the average increases provided to employees.
As a result of its review, and following consultation with major In June 2012, the Groups 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, the Awards and Share Matching Plan awards based on Committee proposes a change to the way the TPR performance condition operates.
outperformance of TSR and NAV vested in full.
Measurement of TPR performance The Executive Directors achieved the maximum performance TPR is one of the three performance conditions we use to under the Companys bonus plan in respect of targets set for determine vesting levels for awards granted under the 2010 Plan.
NAV and capital growth of the Companys property portfolio We are proposing a change to the benchmark against which the against IPDs relevant Capital Growth Index.
As a result of the Companys TPR performance is compared through the use of the achievement of the Executive Directors personal objectives IPD Central and Inner London March Valued Index, as opposed to during the year outlined on page 120, the Committee has the Quarterly Index used to date.
awarded the Executive Directors the full potential bonus for operational excellence.
By benchmarking performance against the IPD Central and Inner London March Valued Index, and thus increasing the Proposed changes in 2013 14 number of funds from 182 to 190 and their value from approximately 25 billion to 36 billion, it will bring some of Review of remuneration arrangements the Companys competitors into the index from which they are During the year, the Committee has conducted a review of the currently excluded as they do not report quarterly data to the effectiveness of the current incentive plans and their linkage IPD index.
This change should ensure the most comprehensive comparator Overall the Committee concluded that the incentives have group whilst maintaining its direct comparability through including provided strong alignment between shareholders and the central and inner London properties only.
executive team and since the last review in 2010 the Company has consistently outperformed the market and delivered We believe major shareholders consulted to be widely supportive substantial returns to shareholders across all of the key of this change.
This change to how the TPR measure operates in practice is The Committees review also concluded that salaries remain within the scope of the terms of the 2010 Plan approved by below market median levels and both minimum and maximum shareholders, all other measurement aspects remaining the same.
vesting thresholds under the 2010 Plan are more challenging No other changes are proposed for the performance conditions than market norms.
Salary As in 2012 13, it is proposed that salaries will be increased by 3%, in line with the average increases provided to employees.
Charles Irby Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 22 May 2013 114 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Policy report The Companys policy is to provide remuneration packages that fairly reward the Executive Directors for the contribution they have made to the business and to ensure that the packages are appropriately competitive to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and Senior Managers of the right calibre.
The policy is to align the Directors interests with those of shareholders and to incentivise the Directors to meet the Companys financial and strategic priorities by making a significant proportion of remuneration performance related.
The Companys strategic objectives are set out in the Business review on pages 2 to 65.
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors is summarised in the table below: Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation and process Opportunity Performance metrics Fixed Remuneration Base salary To attract and retain Reviewed by the Remuneration Committee Base salary Individual and Company talent in the labour annually and assessed having regard to increases will be performance are market in which Company performance, individual performance applied in line considerations in the executive is and responsibilities, as well as salary levels in with the outcome setting base salary.
comparable organisations particularly within of the review.
The Committee Any increases shall is, however, mindful of the need to treat have due regard comparisons with caution to avoid an upward to those applied to ratchet of remuneration levels.
The Committee the wider employee also takes account of salary policy within the See Implementation report population of rest of the Group.
Benets To provide benets Benets principally comprise life insurance, Offered to all Not applicable.
that are valued by health insurance, private healthcare subscriptions, Executive Directors.
the recipient and travel expenses and membership subscriptions.
are appropriately Unlike many property companies, Executive competitive.
Directors are not provided with a company car or a company car allowance.
Benets are reviewed See Implementation report annually and their value is not pensionable.
page 119 Pension To provide a All Executive Directors receive a contribution of Contribution of Not applicable.
framework to save 20% of basic salary to their personal pension 20% of base salary.
for retirement that plan or receive a cash equivalent.
See Implementation report page 119 Variable remuneration Annual Provides an The Annual Bonus Plan is reviewed annually The maximum Current Bonus Plan incentive to achieve at the start of the financial year to ensure bonus is 150% Measures are based on annual performance bonus opportunity, performance measures of base salary.
growth of the Companys targets, which are and weightings are appropriate and continue property portfolio against The Remuneration set at the beginning to support the Companys strategy.
IPDs relevant Capital Committee has of the financial Growth Index, NAV targets the discretion to year in line with the and performance against recommend the Companys strategy.
payment of an additional bonus Proposed to a director for From 1 April 2014, it is exceptional proposed that the IPD performance over measure of the Annual and above the Bonus Plan compare high standard the Companys property already required.
portfolio performance to the IPD Central and Inner London March Valued Capital Growth Index as opposed to the Monthly See Implementation report and Quarterly Index which pages 119 and 120 has been used to date.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 115 Directors remuneration report Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation and process Opportunity Performance metrics Variable remuneration The 2010 Plan was approved by shareholders Awards vest based on a Ongoing Rewards and Performance in July 2010.
The 2010 Plan has two elements: three year performance Performance retains executives shares against total shareholder shares and aligning them 200% of salary.
Performance shares return 33.3%, growth in Matching with shareholder Share Matching Share Matching the Groups net assets shares interests over a Element 1 Performance shares per share 33.3% and longer time frame.
100% of salary Participants are eligible to receive a conditional TPR 33.3%.
Investment shares annual allocation of shares or nil price options Proposed of up to one-third worth up to 200% of base salary From 1 April 2014, it is salary matched on Performance shares.
proposed that the IPD a 3:1 basis.
Share Matching Element measure of the Annual Participants may purchase or pledge shares Bonus Plan compare already owned in the Company Investment the Companys property shares up to a value of one-third of basic portfolio performance to salary in return for which they receive a the IPD Central and Inner conditional allocation of shares as a matching London March Valued award Matching share award.
Capital Growth Index as opposed to the Monthly General terms and Quarterly Index which Investment shares will remain registered in has been used to date.
the name of the holder with full voting and dividend rights.
The Matching share award consists of a conditional allocation of shares worth up to three times the equivalent of the amount so invested or pledged.
Dividends on Matching shares will be rolled up and paid to the extent that the Matching shares vest either in cash or additional shares at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
If Investment shares are disposed of then the corresponding conditional Matching share awards will lapse.
Performance conditions Awards of conditional shares are made annually with vesting dependant on the achievement of performance conditions over three years.
Actual performance against the conditions will be independently veried and reported to the Committee.
Quantum See Implementation report The Committee reviews the quantum of pages 119, 121 to 124 awards annually.
The performance conditions selected for the 2010 Plan are considered by the Committee to mirror the fundamental measures that demonstrate the Groups performance of: growth in absolute net asset value per share: relative Total Property Return: and relative Total Shareholder Return.
116 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 52% 40% 26% 23% 100% 37% 22% Below Target Maximum Threshold 52% 40% 26% 23% 100% 37% 22% Below Target Maximum Threshold 52% 40% 26% 23% 100% 37% 22% Below Target Maximum Threshold The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the remuneration Portfolio Director policy on pages 115 to 118 is in the best interests of 000 2,500 shareholders and does not promote excessive risk-taking.
2,000 Shareholding requirement 1,500 Executive Directors are expected to build and hold a shareholding 1,000 of the Companys shares equal in value to 100% of salary within five years.
500 0 All-employee share plans Following approval by shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Fixed element Annual variable element Multiple reporting period element Meeting, the Company introduced an HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan the 2010 SIP by which all employees, including Fixed element: Base salary as at 31 March 2013, related pension contribution and benets received during 2012 13.
Executive Directors, may purchase shares up to 1,500 and be gifted two additional shares for each share purchased.
Annual variable element: The on-target award level for the bonus plan is assumed to be 75% of salary with a maximum award of 150% assuming the NAV underpin is achieved.
If the If the shares are held in a trust for at least three years and the NAV underpin is not achieved, the on-target award level for the bonus plan will be 52.5%.
employee does not leave the Company during that period then There is nil payout for below threshold performance.
the shares may be retained by the individual subject to some Multiple reporting period element: Estimated value at target and maximum vesting based on performance measures for 2012 13 awards.
Typical target vesting is based on the relief against income tax and national insurance charges.
expected value of the annual 2010 Plan awards of 44%.
Executive Director remuneration scenarios based Service agreements and termination payments on performance The policy of the Company is to have service contracts for The value and composition of the Executive Directors current Executive Directors with notice periods of one year.
It is remuneration packages for the year-ended 31 March 2013 is sometimes necessary when recruiting a new Executive Director shown at below threshold, target and maximum scenarios in the to give a service contract with an initial term of longer than one charts below: year.
In such circumstances it is the policy of the Company that the notice period should reduce to one year after the initial Chief Executive period of service.
000 3,000 Non-Executive Directors who have letters of appointment, are 2,500 subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association dealing with appointment and rotation every three years, however, in 2,000 accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code are subject 1,500 to annual re-election and have a notice period of three months by 1,000 either party.
500 Toby Courtaulds compensation in lieu of notice, payable at the 0 Companys discretion, is 12 months basic salary.
Compensation Fixed element Annual variable element Multiple reporting period element in lieu of notice of Nick Sanderson and Neil Thompson, payable at the Companys discretion, is 12 months basic salary, pension allowance and the value of benets in kind provided in the Finance Director previous year, or the actual provision of those benets.
At the 000 2,000 discretion of the Remuneration Committee, Performance shares, Matching share awards and other awards may be permitted to 1,500 vest based upon the applicable performance conditions being tested.
Timon Drakesmith resigned from the Board with 1,000 effect from 27 May 2011 and received only his salary, pension allowance and benets for the period 1 April 2011 to 500 27 May 2011.
0 The Companys policy on termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the Fixed element Annual variable element Multiple reporting period element relevant contractual terms, the circumstances of the termination and any applicable duty to mitigate.
It is the Committees policy not to reward poor performance.
It is the Companys policy that an Executive Directors right to any bonus will be forfeited and no bonus shall be paid to the Executive where he is under notice of termination of his employment or his employment has terminated.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 117 Directors remuneration report Vesting of awards in special circumstances Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Resignation Awards lapse.
Not applicable Retirement, Immediately or If vesting occurs at the date of cessation performance against targets will be assessed immediately.
injury, disability at end of Alternatively, the Remuneration Committee may decide to continue the Award until the normal etc.
performance time of Vesting with measurement against the Performance Target carried out at the normal time period.
In both circumstances, the number of Plan Shares vesting will be reduced pro rata to reect the amount of time elapsed from the Award Date until cessation as a proportion of the original vesting period.
Performance against targets will be assessed by the Committee on change of control.
The number of control of Plan Shares vesting will be reduced pro rata to reect the amount of time elapsed from the Award Date until the change of control as a proportion of the original vesting period.
The table above summarises how the 2010 Plan awards are Remuneration of other employees typically treated on termination.
Our approach to salary reviews is consistent across the Company, with consideration given to the level of responsibility, experience, Executive Directors may, with the consent of the Committee, individual performance, salary levels in comparable companies retain fees paid to them for acting as a Non-Executive Director and the Companys ability to pay.
Remuneration surveys and of a company outside the Group, except where the directorship meetings with sector specialists are used, where appropriate, to is a representative of the Company.
Toby Courtauld was a establish market rates.
member of the Royal and Sun Alliance, London Board until his resignation in March 2013 for which he will receive 883, All employees participate in an employee annual bonus plan at and is a Non-Executive Director of Liv-ex Limited, for which levels commensurate with their role and measures similar to the he received no remuneration during the year.
Toby Courtauld executive scheme based on growth of the Companys property received no remuneration for serving as Director of The New portfolio against IPDs relevant Total Property Return Index and West End Company.
Senior managers receive Performance share and Matching share Non-Executive Director remuneration awards under the 2010 Plan at levels commensurate with their The fees of the Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, role.
All employees are eligible to participate in the Company SIP are reviewed annually by the Executive Directors, who make on the same terms as the Executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Chairmans fee.
The total of NonEmployees who joined the Company before April 2002, are Executive Directors fees is limited by the Articles of Association.
members of the Companys dened benefit plan and all other Remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors excluding the employees are eligible to join the Companys Dened contribution Chairman comprises a basic fee, together with a fee for serving plan and receive a contribution of 10% of salary.
The Chairman, who also chairs the When determining remuneration of the Executive Directors the Nomination Committee receives a basic fee of 198,300 per Committee takes into account pay and conditions across the annum increased to 209,800 from 1 April 2013 and all other Group, especially when determining annual salary increase.
Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee of 43,000 per Prior to the annual pay review, the Committee receives a report annum increased to 46,000 from 1 April 2013.
In addition, in setting out changes to all employees remuneration levels and recognition of greater responsibility and time commitment, the proposed discretionary bonus awards.
The salary increase Senior Independent Director receives a fee of 5,000 per annum, proposed for the Executive Directors for the year ended the Chairman of the Audit Committee receives a fee of 9,000 31 March 2014 is in line with the average increase provided per annum increased to 9,500 from 1 April 2013 and the to employees across the Group.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a fee of 7,500 per annum increased to 8,200 from 1 April 2013.
Members of the Consideration of shareholder views Audit and Remuneration Committee receive a fee of 4,500 per When determining remuneration, the Remuneration Committee annum for each Committee and 3,350 for the Nomination takes into account the guidelines of investor bodies and Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for the shareholder views.
The Committee is always open to feedback Bonus Plan, Performance shares or Matching share awards, nor from shareholders on remuneration policy and arrangements, and are contributions made to any pension arrangements.
commits to undergoing shareholder consultation in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
Further details on the votes received on the 2012 Directors remuneration report are provided on page 126.
A contribution of 20% of basic salary is made to each Executive Director for his personal pension arrangements or pension allowance or direct to his personal pension plan.
Toby Courtauld receives a pension allowance.
Nick Sandersons contribution is split between a pension allowance and a contribution direct to his personal pension plan.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, Nick Sandersons pension was paid direct to his personal pension plan.
Neil Thompsons contribution is split between a pension allowance and a contribution direct to his personal pension plan.
Resigned from the Board on 27 May 2011.
Joined the Board on 3 September 2012.
Resigned from the Board on 5 July 2012.
This column shows the estimated value of the 2010 LTIP and 2010 SMP share awards expected to vest in July 2013, based on the latest information available and calculated at the average share price of the three months to 31 March 2013, together with the value of the dividend to be paid in respect of the expected vesting of the SMP shares held over the three year period.
This column shows the estimated value of the additional 2010 SMP share award expected to vest in July 2013, based on the latest information available and calculated at the average share price of the three months to 31 March 2013, together with the value of the dividend to be paid in respect of the expected vesting of the SMP shares held over the three year period.
This column sets out a single gure for the total remuneration due to the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2013.
This column includes the value of LTIP and SMP shares that vested in the year ended 31 March 2013, calculated at the mid-market share price on the date of vesting on 30 May 2012 and 12 June 2012 respectively, together with the value of dividend equivalents paid in cash in respect of the vested SMP shares held over the three year period.
See the tables on page 121 for further details.
Executive Director salaries On 1 April 2013, the Executive Directors received increases in salaries, in line with the average increases provided to employees across the Group as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 000 000 % increase Toby Courtauld 505 520 3 Nick Sanderson 325 334 3 Neil Thompson 402 414 3 Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 119 Directors remuneration report 2012 13 Bonus The financial targets for the bonus for the year ended 31 March 2013 and the extent to which they were achieved are as set out in the table below: Maximum Maximum Actual vesting level percentage Key elements performance as a percentage Variable component of salary of strategy Measured by target of maximum Annual Bonus Plan 75% Market Growth of the Companys Annual percentage rate 83% competitiveness property portfolio against of portfolio capital growth to IPDs relevant Capital Growth exceed annual percentage rate Index for the year to of capital growth of the central 31 March 2013 London IPD index by 2.5% 45% Absolute Achievement of NAV Positive NAV growth greater 100% performance targets for the year to than 130% of target 31 March 2013 positive NAV growth underpin 30% Operational Achievement against Exceeding personal objectives 100% excellence personal objectives for the year to 31 March 2013 Bonus plan The personal objectives, other than those covered by the corporate measures, for the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 March 2013 included the following and were specic as to each individuals role and responsibilities: Corporate improving the Companys share rating relative to the central London peer group: ensuring effective joint venture relationships: proactive shareholder relations programme: provision of high quality financial reporting: ensuring the adequacy of internal controls systems: effective internal and external communication: implementation of the revised sustainability frameworks across the investment, asset and development management teams: and active representation on key property industry associations.
Development management proactive targeting of potential investment and development opportunities: fide-risking of the shortto medium-term development programme: and successful progression and delivery of the development programme.
Asset management active tracking of, and responsiveness to, lease expiries: ensuring regular meetings with key tenants: and exceeding rental income, void and delinquency targets.
Financial management identication and implementation of earnings enhancing and cost reduction opportunities: and arrangement of appropriate nancing facilities.
People ensuring appropriate levels of human resources, staff retention and succession planning: and supporting senior managers in growing into their roles.
As a result of the achievement of the Executive Directors objectives during the year, as reected in the review of the Company on pages 2 to 65, the Committee has awarded the Executive Directors the full 30% of salary for operational excellence.
In addition to the component parts of the annual bonus plan on set out above, the Committee also has the discretion to recommend the payment of an additional bonus to a director for exceptional performance over and above the high standard already required.
This discretion was not exercised for the year ended 31 March 2013.
120 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plans Alignment of Performance share and Matching share awards with Company strategy and actual anticipated vesting outcomes Actual anticipated vesting level as a Maximum percentage of percentage Key elements Maximum maximum by Variable component of salary of strategy Measured by performance target vesting date Long-Term Incentive Plans and Share Matching Plans 1 2 2009 LTIP 75% Shareholder Total shareholder return Upper quartile May 2012 100% value based on a three year TSR performance performance period 2 75% Absolute Growth in the Groups The Groups growth in May 2012 100% performance net assets per share net assets to exceed based on a three year RPI plus 8% performance period 4 1,3 2009 SMP 50% Shareholder Total shareholder return Upper quartile TSR June 2012 100% value based on a three year performance performance period 4 50%Absolute Growth in the Groups The Groups growth in June 2012 100% performance net assets per share net assets to exceed based on a three year RPI plus 12% performance period 1 2010 Plan 5 Ongoing Shareholder Total shareholder return Upper quartile July 2013 100% Performance shares 66.66% value based on a three year TSR performance Matching shares 33.33% performance period 6 Additional Matching 33.33% Upper quintile July 2013 100% shares 2010 only TSR performance 5 Ongoing Absolute Growth in the Groups The Groups growth in July 2013 100% Performance shares 66.66% performance net assets per share net assets to exceed Matching shares 33.33% based on a three year RPI plus 9% p. a. performance period 6 Additional Matching 33.33% The Groups growth in July 2013 100% shares 2010 only net assets to exceed RPI plus 9.5% p. a.
5 Ongoing Market Total property return Upper quintile July 2013 96.2% Performance shares 66.66% competitiveness based on a three year TPR performance Matching shares 33.33% performance period 6 Additional Matching 33.33% Upper quintile July 2013 75.2% shares 2010 only TPR performance 1.
Measured over a three year performance period.
100% of the 2009 TSR LTIP award vested to Toby Courtauld and Neil Thompson for awards made on 29 May 2009 and vesting in May 2012 following TSR targets being met.
100% of the 2009 NAV LTIP award vested as a result of NAV targets being met.
Maximum SMP award is based on a maximum investment of 30% of pre-tax salary, grossed up at the prevailing marginal rate of income tax i. e. 40% and matched on a ratio of 2:1.
100% of the 2009 TSR SMP award vested to Toby Courtauld and Neil Thompson for awards made on 3 June 2009 and vesting in June 2012 following TSR targets being met.
100% of the 2009 NAV SMP award vested as a result of NAV targets being met.
As at the date of this Report under the 2010 LTIP award due to vest in July 2013, the expected vesting, based on the latest information available, is 100% of shares under the TSR target, 100% of shares under the NAV target and 96.2% under the Total Property Return target.
As at the date of this Report under the 2010 Additional SMP award due to vest in July 2013 the expected vesting, based on the latest information available, is 100% of shares under the TSR target, 100% of shares under the NAV target and 75.2% under the Total Property Return target.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 121 Directors remuneration report 2010 LTIP Performance measures The following performance measures apply to all outstanding awards under the 2010 LTIP i. e. those granted in 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Performance shares and Matching shares Additional Matching shares Performance measure over three years % of award Vesting level Vesting level Start of measurement period 20% 100% 20% 100% Straight-line vesting Straight-line vesting between these points between these points NAV growth for the period in excess of RPI 33% 3% p. a.
1 April prior to grant TSR against constituents of FTSE 350 Real Upper 60th 80th Estate Sector excluding agencies 33% Median quartile percentile percentile Grant date Total Property Return against constituents of IPD Upper 60th 80th Total Property Return central London index 33% Median quartile percentile percentile 1 April prior to grant 2009 LTIP awards Executive Directors and Senior Managers to a lesser extent were eligible to be awarded shares under the Companys previous LTIP, up to an annual limit of 150% of a participants salary.
Under the scheme there are two separate performance conditions for the vesting of awards, each applying to one half of the shares awarded which, at the time of the awards, were believed by the Committee to provide the best alignment between the interests of participants and shareholders.
2009 LTIP Performance measures The following performance measures apply to LTIP awards granted in 2009 that vested in May 2012.
Performance measure over three years % of award Vesting level Start of measurement period 20% 100% Straight-line vesting between these points NAV growth for the period in excess of RPI 50% 3% 8% 1 April prior to grant TSR against constituents of FTSE 350 Real Estate Sector Upper excluding agencies 50% Median quartile Grant date 122 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Long-Term Incentive award details in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 audited Number of Number Number of Number of shares Number of of shares Market value shares under shares lapsed did shares Market value under Vesting of a share award at awarded not vest vested on date of award at date of Award on grant 1 April during during during vesting 31 March outstanding Plan date Pence 2012 the year the year the year Pence 2013 shares 2009 LTIP 28 May 229.96 278,647 278,647 381.00 Toby Courtauld 1 2009 2010 Plan 16 July 298.00 311,920 16 July 311,920 2 2010 2013 2010 Plan 2 June 435.50 228,384 228,384 2 June 2 2011 2014 2010 Plan 7 June377.00 256,762 7 June 256,762 2 2012 2015 Total awards outstanding 797,066 3 2010 Plan 25 July 430.00 144,310 25 July Nick Sanderson 144,310 2 2011 2014 7 June 377.00 164,988 164,988 7 June 2 2012 2015 Total awards outstanding 309,298 Neil Thompson 2009 LTIP 28 May 229.96 178,584 178,584 381.00 1 2009 2010 Plan 16 July 298.00 215,231 16 July 215,231 2 2010 2013 2010 Plan 2 June 435.50 181,775 181,775 2 June 2 2011 2014 2010 Plan 7 June 377.00 204,392 7 June 204,392 2 2012 2015 Total awards outstanding 601,398 1.
Performance conditions attached to the 2009 LTIP awards are described on pages 121 and 122.
Performance conditions attached to the 2010, 2011 and 2012 Performance shares awards are described on pages 121 and 122.
Nick Sanderson joined the Board on 25 July 2011.
To take account of the Rights Issue completed in June 2009 adjustments were made to the 2009 awards under the LTIP and SMP by applying an adjustment factor to the awards to ensure that the value of shares under award before and immediately after shares in the Company became ex-rights were, as far as possible, the same.
The gures in the table show the number of shares after the adjustment factor was applied.
Share Matching Plan 2009 SMP awards Executive Directors and to a lesser extent Senior Managers were eligible to be awarded shares under the Companys previous Share Matching Plan.
an individual could purchase or pledge shares already owned in the Company Investment shares up to an amount equal to 30% of their pre-tax annual base salary.
After the Investment shares have been purchased or pledged, the Company granted conditional awards of shares Matching shares under the SMP with a value equal to two times the value of the Investment shares grossed up for the marginal rate of income tax : Investment shares remain registered in the name of the holder with full voting and dividend rights but if Investment shares are disposed of then the conditional Matching awards will lapse on a proportionate basis: and dividends on Matching shares are rolled up.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 123 Directors remuneration report There are two separate performance conditions, each applying to half of the Matching shares awarded which, at the time of the awards, were believed by the Committee to provide the best alignment between the interests of participants and shareholders: 2009 SMP Performance measures The following performance measures apply to SMP awards granted in 2009 that vested in June 2012.
Performance measure over three years % of award Vesting level Start of measurement period 20% 100% Straight-line vesting between these points NAV growth for the period in excess of RPI 50% 4% 12% 1 April prior to grant TSR against constituents of FTSE 350 Real Estate Sector Upper excluding agencies 50% Median quartile Grant date For the part of an award to which the TSR performance condition applies, for both the LTIP and SMP the Committee must also be satisfied that the number of shares that vest as a result of the performance conditions being met is reective of the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Performance conditions attached to the 2009 SMP awards are described on pages 121 and above.
Performance conditions attached to the 2010, 2011 and 2012 Matching share awards are described on pages 121 and 122.
To take account of the Rights Issue completed in June 2009 adjustments were made to awards under the LTIP and SMP by applying an adjustment factor to the awards to ensure that the value of shares under award before and immediately after shares in the Company became ex-rights were, as far as possible, the same.
124 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Employee Share Trust Upon vesting, shares to satisfy awards under the 2009 LTIP, 2009 SMP and 2010 Plan are transferred out of the Great Portland Estates plc LTIP Employee Share Trust the Trust, a discretionary trust established to facilitate the operation of the Companys share plans.
The shares to satisfy vested awards have been purchased by the Trustees of the Trust in the open market.
The number of shares held by the Trust as at 31 March 2013 was 2,939,035.
Share ownership As at 31 March 2013 Value of Target shareholding Percentage value of Current 31 March holding shareholding shareholding 2013 against Director shares target Toby Courtauld 505,000 848,304 4,206,740 833% Nick Sanderson 324,500 74,468 369,287 114% Neil Thompson 402,000 412,261 2,044,402 509% Pensions A contribution of 20% of basic salary is made to each Executive Director for his personal pension arrangements or direct to his personal pension plan.
Non-Executive Directors annual fees for the year ended 31 March 2013 Senior Independent Audit Remuneration Nomination Base fee Director Committee Committee Committee Total fees Martin Scicluna 198,300 198,300 Charles Irby 43,000 5,000 4,500 7,500 3,350 63,350 1 Elizabeth Holden 24,799 2,595 2,595 29,989 2 Phillip Rose 11,339 1,187 883 13,409 Jonathan Short 43,000 4,500 4,500 52,000 Jonathan Nicholls 43,000 9,000 4,500 3,350 59,850 1.
Phillip Rose resigned on 5 July 2012.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 125 Directors remuneration report Service contracts The following table sets out the dates of each of the Executive Directors service agreements and their unexpired term, the dates of the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment and the date on which the Non-Executive Director is next subject to reappointment or re-election.
Executive Date of service agreement Unexpired term months Toby Courtauld 18 March 2002 12 Nick Sanderson 7 June 2011 12 Neil Thompson 1 August 2006 12 Non-Executive Date of appointment letter Date when next subject to appointment or re-election Martin Scicluna 1 October 2008 4 July 2013 Charles Irby 1 April 2004 4 July 2013 Elizabeth Holden 3 September 2012 4 July 2013 Jonathan Nicholls 10 July 2009 4 July 2013 Jonathan Short 22 March 2007 4 July 2013 Performance graph The following graph shows the total shareholder returns for the Company for each of the last five financial years compared to the FTSE 350 Real Estate index excluding agencies.
The Company is a constituent of the FTSE 350 Real Estate index and the Committee considers this benchmark to be the most appropriate for illustrating the Companys performance.
Total shareholder return 150 120 90 60 30 0 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Great Portland Estates FTSE 350 Real Estate Index Shareholder vote The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2012 Remuneration report at the 5 July 2012 Annual General Meeting.
As noted in the Policy report, it is the Remunerations Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to any major changes to its Executive remuneration structure.
For Against Abstentions 237,678,035 98.86% 2,165,915 0.90% 579,032 0.24% 126 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Remuneration Committee and Advisers Remuneration report During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised In preparing this Remuneration report, the Committee has of the independent Non-Executive Directors Charles Irby, followed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Jonathan Nicholls and Jonathan Short.
Elizabeth Holden Code, the Companies Act 2006, schedule 8 of the Large and joined the Committee on her appointment to the Board on Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports 3 September 2012.
Regulation 2008, and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Committee has considered the draft of the new The Committee was advised during the year by PwC as remuneration report regulations published by the Department of independent remuneration consultants who were appointed Business, Innovation and Skills in June 2012.
This report includes, by the Committee in 2009.
PwC attends Committee meetings where appropriate, some of the new disclosures expected to be and provides advice on remuneration for the Executive Directors, required once the new regulations become effective, and which analysis on all elements of the remuneration policy and regular will be reected in the remuneration report published in 2014. market and best practice updates.
PwC reports directly to the Committee and complies with the Code of Conduct This report will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 July 2013. www.
PwC also act as the Approved by the Board on 22 May 2013 and signed on its Groups tax adviser and in 2012 provided advice on the Groups behalf by Business Continuity Plan and the winding up of a number of the Groups dormant companies.
PwCs fees for the year to 31 March 2013 were 55,800 in relation to remuneration matters.
During the year the Committee was also advised by New Bridge Street, a rm of independent remuneration consultants, who provided advice to the Committee in respect of vesting of Charles Irby the Total Shareholder Return element of the LTIP and SMP Chairman of the Remuneration Committee awards and Investment Property Databank IPD who provide measurement against its property benchmark, with both companies being appointed by the Committee in respect of these roles.
Toby Courtauld, the Chief Executive, provided input with regard to the discretionary bonuses for the other Executive Directors.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 127
