GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED YOUR BOARDS YEAR BOARD FOCUS DURING 2013 BOARD VISIT TO MARSEILLE The Board concentrated on the following key areas in support of the In May 2013 the Board visited the Groups development at Les Companys strategic priorities: Terrasses du Port, Marseille.
The visit provided an opportunity for the Board to meet with local management and stakeholders and review Conclusion of a 50:50 joint venture with Westfield to combine and progress on the construction.
redevelop the Whitgift Centre and Centrale in Croydon: During the visit, the Board toured the Companys development.
The Approval of the acquisition of a further 16.7% stake in the Bullring, project management team gave a presentation covering the project Birmingham for 153.5 million and the investment of a further background and investment rationale: background details on Marseille 78 million in Value Retails premium designer outlet villages: and the region: key aspects of the development including the retail Acquisition of Saint Sbastien shopping centre in Nancy, France, mix and target customers: and an update on pre-letting progress in for 109 million: comparison to other recent Hammerson developments.
The main risks Disposal of Queensgate shopping centre in Peterborough for of the project were identified as on-time and on-budget completion 101 million: and the letting targets.
The Board satisfied itself that plans were in Review of the Groups development pipeline.
This led to decisions place to mitigate these risks.
The Board also considered the financial on developments at Leeds, Brent Cross, Sheffield and Croydon and performance expected from the development.
Board visits provide was the basis for carrying out future strategic, financial and human invaluable insight into the business for Directors.
resource planning across the Group: Regular review of the Groups capital structure, funding options and requirements.
This included the approval of a tender offer of the VIEW FROM GWYN BURR Groups 300 million 5.25% bonds and approval of terms for the issuance of US$443 million 275 million seven, 10 and 12 year This was my first visit to Les Terrasses du Port.
Arriving on the notes in a US private placement transaction: bus with the Board and project team, I was struck by the scale Approval of the Groups Culture and Values project, to embed a of our project.
The site is right in the heart of an exciting larger positive culture to support the Groups strategy: redevelopment of Marseille, and there was a real energy around Annual review of the Groups health and safety arrangements the city.
Its much easier to feel properly connected to the including the Groups response to civil unrest and terrorism threats: project and the teams delivering it wearing a hard hat, high viz vest and boots, than from the distance of a Board room.
I had Review of succession planning for senior roles within the Group: plenty of opportunity to talk to the teams about the challenges Update on the Groups insurance arrangements and a review of they have faced in getting to this stage.
I was impressed by their progress towards the consolidation and standardisation of the commitment and determination to succeed, and to tackle and Groups information technology infrastructure.
resolve the many challenges they have faced.
I am really excited about visiting again in 2014 to see Les Terrasses du Port opened AREAS OF BOARD FOCUS DURING 2013 for consumers.
Gwyn Burr Non-Executive Director Chief Executive and property portfolio reports Financial reporting Strategy review and capital structure BOARD Corporate FOCUS operations Investment and IT, HR, developments pensions reports Risk, Board balance, governance succession and corporate and diversity responsibility 64 64 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 BOARD STRATEGY DAY INDUCTION PROGRAMME FOR NEW DIRECTORS In October 2013 the Board held its annual Strategy Day in order to The induction programme for Non-Executive Directors is based on test, refine and set the Companys strategy.
The focus of the day was the guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and operational and capital efficiency.
Members of senior management Administrators and is tailored to the specific needs of newly appointed joined the Board for discussions on three key areas: financial external directors.
An induction programme was planned for performance and capital structure of the Group: creating winning David Tyler who joined the Board in January 2013.
Following his retail destinations: and capturing and improving retail spend.
The appointment to the Board, David had a number of meetings with agenda for the Strategy Day included, amongst other matters, John Nelson, the outgoing Chairman, which covered a comprehensive the following: agenda of matters.
He also held discussions with the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the other Directors and the Company Review of progress against 2013 Business Plan objectives: Secretary.
He was briefed on the Companys strategy, finances, Assessment of Hammersons current strategic positioning: operations, risks, and procedures.
In addition, David met with senior Discussion on the global economic outlook: executives, other employees and key advisors.
A wide programme of site visits in France and the UK enabled David to gain further insight Presentation on creating successful mixed use and leisure destinations: into the Groups activities.
Debate on the Groups portfolio mix, strategic opportunities and asset allocation, both geographically and between different On appointment, Executive Directors receive an induction programme classes of asset: appropriate to their needs.
At the time of his appointment to the Board in January 2013, Jean-Philippe Mouton already had considerable Consideration of strategies for working even better with knowledge of the Company, having joined Hammerson in 2003.
Hammersons customers retailers, leisure providers and caterers Jean-Philippe received an overview of relevant legislation and and the delivery of improved service levels and experience to regulation about which he needed to be aware as a director of a listed consumers in Hammersons shopping centres and retail parks: company.
Further personal and professional development needs for all Review of progress and future plans for Hammerson Future, a Directors are considered as part of their annual performance programme to identify and implement improvements throughout development reviews.
the business in a number of key operational areas.
As part of the continuing development of the Directors, the Company Initiatives identified as a result of the Strategy Day have been incorporated Secretary ensures that the Board is kept up to date with key into the Business Plan for 2014.
They also influence the objectives set for governance developments throughout the business.
the Executive Directors and throughout the business for 2014.
Directors were asked to comment on the Strategy Day during the Board evaluation exercise.
Comments received indicated that they found the event useful and that it plays an important part in debating DAVID TYLERS FIRST YEAR initiatives and refining strategy.
For me, the first 12 months of a job have often proved some of BOARD VISIT TO CROYDON the most challenging and fulfilling.
That may well be the case at The December Board meeting was held in the Almshouses of the Hammerson, a business I knew relatively little about before I Whitgift Foundation, Croydon to enable the Board to see the Croydon joined the Board in January 2013.
I wanted to understand the redevelopment project and receive an update on progress from the key aspects of the business model of the Company what project team.
During the days visit the Board received presentations on really makes it tick as soon as possible.
the local history of Croydon, the opportunities presented by the My induction programme gave me that opportunity, allowing development and the progress of the joint venture between me to engage quickly with management and employees in Hammerson and Westfield.
In particular the Board discussed the many of our retail destinations in the UK and in France, and in challenges of combining and redeveloping the two existing centres, our corporate functions in London and Paris.
I also took the the profitability and viability of the project and opportunities to opportunity to meet individuals at other key relationships, for enhance the consumer experience of the future.
The Board also visited example, Value Retail and retailers, to understand their attitudes the Whitgift Centre and Centrale during a tour of Croydon town centre.
to their relationships with Hammerson.
At the end of my first year in the Company, I am particularly struck by the capabilities of the management team, their energy and their vision.
I believe that all this will pay dividends for shareholders in the years ahead.
com 65 65 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The 2012 internal Board effectiveness review was facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Actions carried out in 2013 as a result of the recommendations arising from the 2012 evaluation are reported below: Recommendation Action Review the composition of the Board.
This was carried out by the Nomination Committee following David Tylers appointment and succession requirements were identified.
Review the division of responsibilities between the Chief Executive Following David Tylers appointment as Chairman and the outcome and Chairman.
of the 2013 external Board evaluation, the division of responsibilities has been updated.
Include additional property visits in the Board calendar.
The Board visited Marseille and Croydon in 2013.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW 2013 In the autumn of 2013 an external evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees was undertaken.
Four potential providers were interviewed by the Chairman and Company Secretary and their different approaches and methodologies were considered.
IDDAS, an independent board effectiveness consultancy, was appointed and as this is its only connection with the Company, it is considered independent.
IDDAS met with the Chairman and Company Secretary to discuss and agree issues to be explored during the evaluation.
The Financial Reporting Councils Framework on Board Effectiveness and Principles of the Code were borne in mind while agreeing the process.
The review also specifically sought to explore a number of areas for feedback and to identify opportunities to improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
IDDAS met the Board at a subsequent Board meeting to brief it on the agreed process.
Each Director and the Company Secretary had an individual interview, based on structured questioning to ensure consistency.
IDDAS also reviewed a years worth of Board and Committee papers.
A summary of the interviews, together with analysis and recommendations from IDDAS, were presented to the Board in December.
The Board then discussed and agreed the action plan set out below: Recommendation Action Clearly identify optimum mix of skills that the Board needs.
The Nomination Committee debated this in December 2013 and the Board has approved the recruitment requirements.
Identify the internal talent pool of new executives with high The Chief Executive will lead this work and progress will be reviewed potential and create development plans for them.
Board agendas should be revised to ensure adequate focus on the The 2014 Board work plan has been revised to reflect the development projects and marketing.
The layout of Board papers recommendation.
The layout and content of Board papers will be should also be reviewed.
Reduced use of printed Board papers should be considered.
Options for electronic Board paper portals will be explored.
Effectiveness of reduced number of formal Board meetings should The Company Secretary will arrange for this review to be be reviewed once a full calendar cycle has been completed.
Additional engagement between Non-Executive Directors and The 2014 Board work plan envisages that a number of senior management should be arranged.
managers will attend Board meetings from time to time.
Other opportunities will be arranged.
Full details of Code compliance are provided on pages 100 to 103.
