NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER During 2013 the Committee considered succession planning for the Executive Directors and managements succession plans for the identification and development of senior employees.
As part of these reviews, the Committee also explored ways of providing better integration of functions across the Group.
During the year the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
As reported in last years Annual Report, it is planned that John Hirst will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM and will be succeeded as Chairman of the Audit Committee by Jacques Espinasse.
I am very pleased that Jacques has agreed to take on the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee following the AGM.
Anthony Watson and Jacques Espinasse will have each served on the Board for nine years in the spring of 2015 and 2016 respectively.
Discussions on a successor for each were David Tyler undertaken as part of the review of succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors held Chairman of the during the year.
Anthony Watson will stand down in his capacity as Chairman of the Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee following the AGM and will be succeeded by Gwyn Burr.
I am delighted that Gwyn has agreed to take over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee following the AGM.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS Diversity Terry Duddy The Board has continued to follow the important debate on gender diversity.
The Board Anthony Watson believes that a diverse workforce and management team improve the culture of the organisation and add value to the business as a whole.
The Boards stated aim is to reach 20% female representation as soon as practicable.
After the AGM and John Hirsts retirement from the Board, female representation will rise to 20%.
The Committee will continue to consider gender diversity when recommending any future Board appointments.
Final appointments will always be made on merit.
In December, the Committee considered a report on progress on diversity in the business.
The Company recognises that in some areas of the Group women are under-represented including at the most senior management levels.
Further details on diversity and equality are found on page 25 and we will report on progress in this area next year.
David Tyler Chairman of the Nomination Committee www.
