GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED YOUR BOARD DAVID TYLER TIMON DRAKESMITH Non-Executive Director and Chairman Age 61 Chief Financial Officer Age 48 Appointed to the Board: 12 January 2013 and appointed Chairman Appointed to the Board: 30 June 2011. on 9 May 2013.
Skills and experience: Timon Drakesmith is a Chartered Accountant Committee membership: Remuneration Committee and Chairman who joined the Company in 2011 as Chief Financial Officer.
He has of the Nomination Committee.
experience of working in commercial property having spent six years as finance director at Great Portland Estates plc.
Skills and experience: David Tyler is an experienced chairman having served in that role previously at Logica plc and 3i Quoted Private Other appointments: Non-executive director of Value Retail PLC and Equity plc and currently at J Sainsbury plc.
He has considerable chairman of the British Property Federations finance committee.
experience of both retail and finance.
David is a Fellow of the Past appointments: Finance director of the MK Electric division of Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and a member Novar plc and group director of financial operations of Novar plc.
of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Other financial roles at Credit Suisse, Barclays and Deloitte Haskins Other appointments: Non-executive director of Burberry plc.
Past appointments: Finance director of GUS plc and has held senior JEAN-PHILIPPE MOUTON financial and general management roles with Christies International Executive Director Age 52 plc, County NatWest Limited and Unilever PLC.
Non-executive director Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013. of Experian plc and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Skills and experience: Jean-Philippe Mouton joined Hammerson in DAVID ATKINS 2003 with responsibility for property leasing, development and asset Chief Executive Age 47 management in France.
In 2006, he assumed responsibility for Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2007 and appointed Chief managing the French portfolio as Director of Operations and in 2009 Executive on 1 October 2009. became the Managing Director of Hammersons French business.
Jean-Philippes in-depth experience of the French business Skills and experience: David Atkins is a Chartered Surveyor who joined strengthens the Boards integrated approach across the UK and France.
His career at Hammerson began as Group He also has Board responsibility for marketing where he can draw on Property Executive, responsible for strategy and investment years of experience working for Disneyland Paris.
performance, where he worked on a number of overseas transactions, particularly in France.
In 2002 he took responsibility for the UK retail Past appointments: Director of strategic planning at Disneyland Paris parks portfolio and in 2006 he became responsible for the wider UK and roles at The Walt Disney Company and Standard Chartered Bank.
ANTHONY WATSON CBE Other appointments: Chairman of the European Public Real Estate Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Association.
Director and junior vice president of the British Council of Age 68 Shopping Centres.
Member of the policy committee of the British Appointed to the Board: 1 February 2006.
Property Federation and the advisory committee of the British Council Committee membership: Audit Committee, Nomination Committee of Shopping Centres.
Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered and Chairman of Remuneration Committee.
Surveyors Commercial Property Market Forum.
Skills and experience: Anthony Watson has a strong financial and legal PETER COLE background.
He is a frequent speaker and contributor to corporate Chief Investment Officer Age 55 governance debates and is well placed to understand shareholders Appointed to the Board: 1 October 1999. requirements, essential for his role as Senior Independent Director.
Skills and experience: Peter Cole is a Chartered Surveyor who has Other appointments: Non-executive director of Vodafone Group plc considerable knowledge of, and experience in the property sector.
He and senior independent director of both Witan Investment Trust plc joined the Company in 1989 as a Senior Development Surveyor and and Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Member of the Norges Bank was appointed to the board of the Companys UK business in 1992.
Investment Management corporate governance advisory board.
In 1999, Peter assumed responsibility for Hammersons development, Chairman of Lincolns Inn investment committee.
Director of the acquisition and disposal programme.
He implemented the disposal Queens University of Belfast foundation board.
Member of the of the London offices in 2012.
Peter has led the Companys major advisory board of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
regeneration and investment projects including retail schemes in Reading Oracle and Birmingham Bullring and currently Croydon Past appointments: Chairman of Marks and Spencer Pension Trust Centrale and Whitgift Centre and Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille.
Limited, Asian Infrastructure Fund Limited and Strategic Investment Board Northern Ireland.
Past appointments: President and general council member of the City Property Association.
62 62 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 GWYN BURR JUDY GIBBONS Non-Executive Director Age 51 Non-Executive Director Age 57 Appointed to the Board: 21 May 2012.
Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2011.
Committee membership: Audit Committee and from 14 February Committee membership: Audit Committee and 2014 Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: Gwyn Burr has expertise in marketing and Skills and experience: Judy Gibbons has a background in software, leading customer service processes for major retail brands which internet technologies, digital media, mobile applications and supports Hammersons focus on retail.
She also has extensive experience in marketing and international business.
Other appointments: Member of board, remuneration committee and chairman of nominations committee of Sainsburys Bank plc.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of Guardian Media Group Non-executive director of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
plc, Michael Kors Holdings Limited and Virgin Money Giving and Non-executive director of Wembley Stadium.
chairman of Refresh Mobile Limited.
Past appointments: Senior roles in marketing, customer service Past appointments: Non-executive director of O2 plc.
Corporate vice and financial services at Asda plc.
Customer service and colleague president of Microsoft Corporation.
Venture partner of Accel Partners.
Non-executive director of the Senior roles in marketing and product development at Apple Inc. Principality Building Society.
Director of the Incorporated Society and Hewlett-Packard.
Chair of Business in the Community JOHN HIRST CBE community investment board.
Non-Executive Director Age 61 TERRY DUDDY Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2004.
Non-Executive Director Age 57 Committee membership: Chairman of Audit Committee.
Appointed to the Board: 3 December 2009.
Skills and experience: John Hirst is a Chartered Accountant.
He has Committee membership: Nomination Committee and extensive corporate and financial experience having held senior Remuneration Committee.
positions at ICI plc and Premier Farnell plc where he successfully led a Skills and experience: Terry Duddy is chief executive of Home Retail repositioning of the business.
In addition to the capabilities and experience related to Other appointments: Chief executive of the Met Office and chairman managing a large public company, he brings specific insight into of the audit committee of the World Meteorological Organization.
customer behaviour and retail markets, which is a major focus for Director of Epilepsy Research UK and a trustee of Epilepsy Bereaved.
Member of Exeter University Business Schools advisory board.
Other appointments: Trustee of Education and Employers Taskforce.
Past appointments: Group chief executive of Premier Farnell plc and Past appointments: Director of DSG Retail Limited.
chairman of ASBISC Enterprises plc.
JACQUES ESPINASSE Non-Executive Director Age 70 BOARD COMPOSITION Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2007.
Chairman 1 Executive Directors Skills and experience: Jacques Espinasse has a BBA and MBA, which Independent Non-Executive Directors complement his long business career in many different sectors, based in Brussels, London and Paris.
He has extensive knowledge of and insight into the French market.
6 4 Other appointments: Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of AXA Holdings Belgium, AXA Bank Europe and AXA Belgium.
Non-executive director and member of the audit and remuneration committees of La Banque Postale Asset Management and SES.
Chairman and chief executive officer of the Foundation JED-Belgique.
Past appointments: Chief financial officer of Vivendi.
Non-executive director of Canal France, Maroc Telecom, SFR and Universal Music Group.
