GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER This is my final report as Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee as I will step down as a Non-Executive Director following the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM.
It has been a great privilege to serve on the Board of Hammerson and as Chairman of the Committee.
Jacques Espinasse, a fellow Non-Executive Director and current member of the Committee will succeed me as Chairman.
Jacques has served as chief financial officer of Vivendi and has extensive experience of serving on the audit committees of a number of European companies.
One of the significant requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code is that the Board confirms the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee assists the Board in this task.
The relatively simple and transparent nature of the real estate business, the high standard of reporting fostered by EPRA and the maturity of Hammersons John Hirst CBE reporting and accounting processes enable us to convey our message clearly to Chairman of the shareholders.
With this in mind, the Committee considered managements analysis Audit Committee supporting the assertion that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and confirmed and recommended to the Board that it is.
An essential element of the Committees work during the year has been to consider the COMMITTEE MEMBERS appropriateness of significant judgements made in connection with the financial Gwyn Burr statements and further details are provided in this Committee Report.
A key area of Jacques Espinasse judgement on which the Committee focused its scrutiny related to the valuation of the Judy Gibbons Groups property portfolio.
The Companys external valuer, DTZ DTZ, presented the Anthony Watson conclusions of their half-year and year end valuations to the Committee.
Their presentation is always the subject of serious and full discussion between DTZ, management and the Committee.
The valuation is a significant measurement of the Groups performance and determinant of Executive Directors remuneration.
In addition to meetings held by the Committee with the external auditor Deloitte LLP Deloitte and DTZ, I met with both as part of the full and half-year valuation process to ensure that each was satisfied that there had been a full and open exchange of views.
The Committees work will continue to evolve in the light of guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC as a result of its latest consultations on risk management and internal control and the implementation of the Sharman Inquirys recommendations on going concern.
David Tyler refers to changes to the structure of the Governance Report in his introduction on page 61 and consequently, we have concentrated here on the activities of the Committee during 2013.
Further details of our compliance with the Code can be found on pages 100 to 103.
This Report should therefore be read in conjunction with that section of the Governance Report.
We hope that this new layout will help inform readers whilst still providing full details of our compliance with the Code.
We stated in last years Annual Report that the Committees intention is to review the requirement to tender the appointment of the external auditor closer to the time when the Deloitte audit partner next rotates and our reasons are more fully explained on page 69.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Deloitte for the continuing high quality of the audit services they have provided to the Group.
John Hirst Chairman of the Audit Committee 68 68 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 Going Concern MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Managements assessment of the appropriateness of the Group The agendas for the four scheduled meetings of the Committee preparing its half-year and annual financial statements on a going during 2013 were organised around the Companys reporting concern basis was evaluated by the Committee.
To help the Committee review and challenge the integrity including undrawn facilities and the financial covenants in the Groups of the Companys financial reporting, representatives from Deloitte borrowing facilities were reviewed in particular.
The Committee attended appropriate parts of each meeting.
During the year the considered reports on the renewal and maturity profile of debt, Committee considered amongst other matters: forecast cash flows, funding requirements and contingent liabilities.
The Deloittes conclusions for the 2012 audit and the audit plan for 2013: Committee also recognised the contractual long-term nature of tenant Risks to the Group identified in the 2013 audit plan and monitoring leases and concluded that the going concern basis was appropriate.
those risks: Accounting for Property Transactions The half-year results and the Annual Report: During the year there were several sales and purchases of property Property valuation reports from DTZ: and corporate interests, including interests in joint ventures.
Proposed changes to the risk management framework and Management explained to the Committee how transactions were to managements mitigation of identified risks: be accounted for, particularly in respect of the timing at which the transactions were recognised.
The Committee concurred with The re-appointment of Deloitte for recommendation to the Board: these judgements.
A report on the Companys approach to tax risk: A number of standing items including the Companys APPOINTMENT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR Whistleblowing policy and anti-fraud procedures: and Deloitte or its predecessor firms have been the Companys external Compliance and regulatory developments.
auditor since the Company was founded in 1942.
In accordance with professional and regulatory standards the lead audit partner is rotated SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENTS at least every five years in order to protect auditor independence and Before recommending the half-year and annual financial statements objectivity.
The current lead audit partner, Ian Waller, has been in place to the Board for approval, the Committee reviewed, amongst other since April 2012 and will continue until the conclusion of the audit of things, the following matters: the financial statements for 2016.
Valuation of the Property Portfolio The Committee considers the re-appointment of the external auditor each year.
Early in 2013 the Committee assessed whether the Group The Committee has a robust process through which it satisfies itself should consider tendering the appointment of the external auditor.
that the external valuation of the Groups property portfolio, including The Committee concluded that Deloitte was effective and developments, is appropriate.
The Committee recognises that the independent and provides an appropriate level of service delivered Group operates in two liquid and mature property markets, the UK by a team with an in-depth understanding of Hammersons business and France, in which there are well established and respected and the broader real estate sector.
In forming its opinion on the valuation professionals.
The Committee is also familiar with the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, the processes surrounding the provision of information by management Committee reviewed: to DTZ.
Current conditions and recent transactions in the market were discussed with both management and DTZ as a means of providing The independence safeguards operating within Deloitte: context for the valuations, after which assumptions and judgements A report from Deloitte describing its arrangements to ensure made by both parties were challenged by the Committee.
Deloitte objectivity and to identify, report and manage any conflicts of also presented its findings on the valuation.
The Committee was interest: and satisfied that there were no significant areas of contention and that The extent of non-audit services provided by Deloitte.
the valuation procedures and methodologies used and the valuations themselves were appropriate.
To assess Deloittes effectiveness the Committee monitored the firms fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and its reports on the significant Investment in Value Retail matters and judgements that arose from the audit plan.
The FRCs The Committee discussed with management the proposed accounting Audit Quality Report on Deloitte issued in May 2013 was also treatment for the Groups investment in Value Retail and the process by reviewed.
An independent client service assessment was performed which the Groups share of Value Retail was recognised in the Groups by Deloitte during the year which included interviews with accounts.
The Committee discussed, in particular, the valuation appropriate Hammerson senior management and the Chairman of performance of Value Retails property portfolio in the context of their the Committee.
The initial results of the assessment, which were operational performance and concluded that the investment was presented to the Committee in December, supported the overall appropriately recognised in the Groups financial statements.
satisfaction rating of Deloittes services.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte be re-appointed at the 2014 AGM.
com 69 69 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED While the Committee is mindful of the Code requirement to re-tender EFFECTIVENESS OF THE CONTROL ENVIRONMENT the external audit contract at least every 10 years, the exact timing The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to remains a matter for the Companys discretion.
The Committees the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment and the present intention is to review the requirement to tender the external Groups compliance with the Code.
To this end, during the year the audit closer to the time when the audit partner next rotates, as was Committees review included: noted in last years Annual Report.
However, the Committee will Deloittes management letters: continue to review this position annually.
Internal audit reports, including recommendations arising therein NON-AUDIT SERVICES and the review of progress in implementing previous The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation recommendations: and monitoring of the Groups policy on the engagement of the Reports on the systems of internal controls and the risk external auditor to supply non-audit services to the Group, the management framework: principal requirements of which are that: The Companys approach to compliance with legislation and The external auditor may not provide a service which places it in regulations and to the prevention of fraud including a position where it may be required to audit its own work, such as whistleblowing arrangements: book keeping or valuation services: and Business continuity risk and cyber risk: Some services may be provided in specific and exceptional Gifts and entertainment and expenses registers: and circumstances and may include tax compliance work, due diligence Deloittes audit planning reports.
Each occasion is specifically assessed and authorised by an Executive Director up to a limit of There is a regular on-going review of the effectiveness of the Groups 50,000 and above that limit by the Chairman of the Committee.
systems of risk management and internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
However, it must be recognised The full policy is available at www.
that any such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute Deloittes remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2013 was assurance against material misstatement or loss.
563,000 2012: 754,000 for half-year review and year end audit work.
Management has established a risk management framework and Consideration is given to the nature of and remuneration received for sufficient procedures necessary to enable the Directors to report on other services provided by Deloitte to the Company and confirmation internal controls in compliance with the Code.
These involve the is sought that the fee payable for the annual audit is sufficient to analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks to the Group enable Deloitte to perform its obligations in accordance with the and include plans for the continuity of the Companys business in the scope of the audit.
Reports on the key risks to the Group During 2013, non-audit services provided by Deloitte to the Company are made regularly to the Board via the Committee.
The Board included acting as reporting accountants for intra-Group distributions, allocates responsibility for the management of each key risk to assistance with the electronic filing of accounts, tax returns and Executive Directors and senior executives within the Group.
Fees for non-audit services are based on the detailed explanation of the Companys approach to risk management work undertaken and are not success-related.
The total fees paid for non-audit services provided by Deloitte for the INTERNAL AUDIT year ended 31 December 2013 were 61,000 2012: 375,000.
The Committee considers annually the requirement for an internal audit function.
BDO LLP had fulfilled the function of internal auditor RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL since August 2006, directed by Hammersons management and the The Board has ultimate responsibility for determining the nature Committee.
Following a review in 2013, the Committee decided to and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its re-tender the appointment.
Four firms were invited to present their strategic objectives of creating high-quality retail property, maximising credentials, including the incumbent auditor, BDO.
Ernst & Young LLP income and maintaining capital strength.
It is also responsible for was subsequently appointed on 6 August 2013. establishing sound risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Groups risk management and A programme of reviews of the controls established to mitigate the internal control systems are designed to: risk areas identified in the risk management framework is undertaken to ensure they are operating correctly.
During the year internal audits Safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition: were carried out on a number of business processes, including: Ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records: Treasury policies and procedures: Provide reliable financial information: IT business interruption testing in France: Identify and, as far as possible, mitigate potential impediments to Financial controls at managing agents: and the Group achieving its objectives: and Controls and procedures implemented in the French business for Ensure compliance with relevant legislation, rules and regulations.
These reviews and the implementation of recommendations arising from them are overseen and coordinated by a Risk and Controls 70 70 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 Committee see further details in the box to the right to ensure that internal control is integrated into Hammersons daily operations.
The Committee is satisfied that these arrangements continue to provide RISK AND CONTROLS COMMITTEE an appropriate overview of the Companys internal control procedures.
This committee comprises executives from across Other key elements of the Groups systems of risk management and the business, including the UK shopping centres, internal control include: retail parks, French shopping centres and finance and project management teams, and is chaired by Regular meetings of the Board and the Committee whose overall the Chief Financial Officer.
responsibilities are set out in this Committee Report and elsewhere in the Annual Report: The role of the Risk and Controls Committee is to: A management structure that is designed to enable effective Promote the application of the risk management decision-making with clearly defined responsibilities and framework throughout the business: limits of authority: Agree the annual internal control review The maintenance of operational control manuals setting out a programme: and control framework for management to operate within and Consider the results and recommendations of containing guidance and procedures for the Groups operations: and reviews and monitor the implementation of those The measurement of the Groups financial performance on a regular recommendations.
basis against budgets and long-term financial plans.
In 2013 the committee met four times with The systems of risk management and internal control and their meetings scheduled in advance of each Audit effectiveness have been reviewed by the Board for the year under Committee meeting.
review and during the period up to the date of this Annual Report and the process accords with the Turnbull guidance.
CODE OF CONDUCT The Group has a Code of Conduct which explains how employees are expected to fulfil their responsibilities by acting in the best interests of the Group and in line with its corporate and financial objectives.
This includes compliance with laws and regulations: acting fairly in dealing with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders: maintaining integrity in financial reporting: treating people with respect and operating within a control framework which includes environmental and health and safety policies.
A summary of the Code of Conduct is available on the Companys website.
WHISTLEBLOWING The Group has a whistleblowing procedure by which employees may report suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity or other malpractice.
No reports of any such matters have been received for the year under review.
The Company subscribes to the independent charity, Public Concern at Work, so that employees may have free access to its helpline.
The whistleblowing procedure is reviewed and if necessary updated annually to ensure it remains appropriate.
