99 Corporate Governance Framework The Company complied with management of its resources.
As a of character and judgement are not the main principles of the UK compromised based on a number of Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial which includes approval of annual in the economic and commercial Reporting Council in September environment since his tenure at 2012 throughout the year with the exception of the composition of the management policies.
The Board is always exercised strong independent Remuneration Committee.
In anticipation of The Company recognises that information it needs to enable it to only having two independent Nomination Committee has begun discharge its duties.
The Board is also Non-Executive Directors on the kept informed of changes in relevant Remuneration Committee does replacement and one additional legislation and changing commercial not comply with the provisions independent non-executive director to join the Board see the Nomination to independent professional advice that for a Company with only 96 Committee Report on page 105. and the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board meets Richard Mully is the Senior two independent Non-Executive Independent Director.
All Directors except Stephen Gee will Executive Chairman considered Board composition independent on appointment is an 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The Board currently comprises appropriate composition.
The Chairman and Joint Chief The Company complies with the Executives roles and three Executive Directors.
The Corporate Governance Statement The division of responsibilities biographies of these Directors are set requirements pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules by each of whom is independent virtue of the information included in and reviewed annually by the Board.
this Corporate Governance on pages from management and has no The Chairman is responsible for the commercial or other connection 98 to 126 together with information contained in the Directors Report on exercise independent judgement.
In determining the independence The role of the Board of Directors considered whether his previous and that there is appropriate The Board is responsible to the role as a Non-Executive Director and timely communication with shareholders of the Company for of Ashtenne Holdings plc might shareholders.
the strategy and future development concluded that his independence ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Section 3 !
