101 Report of the Audit Committee relationship with the Groups Composition of the Committee 2013 the Committee met at the four The Board has established an Audit scheduled meetings with all members Committee the Committee of in attendance on each occasion.
independence of the external three independent Non-Executive Directors as required by the 2012 scope of their work and the fees UK Corporate Governance Code the information from management in paid to them for audit and nonCode.
Following the announcement audit services: of Stephen Gees retirement planned and responsibilities.
the Chairmanship of the Committee to the recommendation for Role and responsibilities of the in November 2013.
Stephen remains Committee a member of the Committee while remuneration and terms of engagement of the Groups replacement is undertaken.
Richard external auditor: information from management in Mully is the third member of the Committee.
Humphrey Price is the and responsibilities.
The Committees principal process: responsibilities include: of the Committee have extensive statements and advising the of the Committee have links with the applying the Groups accounting Companys external auditor.
policies and any changes to Senior representatives of the external understandable and provides and the information necessary senior management may be invited for shareholders to assess to attend the meetings at the Groups risks on a bi-annual Committees discretion.
The Company business model and strategy: basis.
Secretary acts as secretary to the The full terms of reference of the Committee.
systems and procedures in place The Company believes the Committee contains the right balance information: are available on the Companys website www.
support the business in achieving its strategy.
policy for the provision of nonFinancial reporting audit services by the auditor: The Committee meets regularly The Committee reviewed and during the year aligned to the considered the following areas in ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Section 3 102 Corporate Governance External Auditor and their the preparation of the interim and undertook the following actions: independence The Groups external auditor is Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
In forming relevant and current expertise their opinion on the independence accounting policies used: in property valuation met with and objectivity of the external valuers of the Group property portfolio to discuss the valuations account the safeguards operating standards and policies: within Deloitte and they are asked assumptions in the going concern to provide a formal statement of forecasts and the reasonableness their independence to the Company of the stress tests carried out in relation to those forecasts ensures compliance with its policy governing the provision of non-audit balanced and understandable.
valuations were obtained for services by the external auditor No issues arose from this review.
under which Deloitte may not provide a service which places them in a evidence for recognition of Committee considered the work and position where they may be required overseas deferred tax assets.
recommendations of the Finance to audit their own work.
No issues arose from the above.
from providing services relating received regular reports from the Internal audit to bookkeeping or other services external auditor setting out their The Committee keeps under review relating to accounting records or views of the accounting treatments the Companys need for an internal and judgements included in the audit function.
The majority of the processing and accounting for the from the external auditor are based day-to-day transactions of the Group is outsourced to third-party suppliers.
statements and a review of the Management maintain a close relationship with these suppliers remuneration related services or and perform regular detailed advocacy services.
by the Committee in relation to the reviews of their work and report concerns are raised by these reviews.
The Committee regularly reviews reviewed: the internal controls to ensure that covenant compliance they are adequate for the size and out in the external auditors complexity of the business.
On engagement letter: this basis the Committee believes instruments that the underlying objectives work plan: of an internal audit function are tax assets adequately performed at present.
proposal: In addition to requesting that the The Committee and the Board will external auditor focus on these areas continue to monitor this position on and report to the Committee with an ongoing basis.
auditor describing their HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 103 arrangements to ensure resolution of areas of accounting The Committee has adopted a judgement: formal framework in its review of audit process which includes a of papers analysing those provided by the external auditor judgements: to ensure that they are not placed in a position to audit their approach to the value of own work.
independent audit and the the role of the Company and the booking of any audit adjustments Deloitte and their associates to arising: and how the external auditor supports public documents for review by in respect of UK and overseas income the auditor and the Committee.
audit contributes insights and adds Committee believes that it receives The Committee meets as considered necessary with the external auditor non-audit services being provided without management being present.
by the external auditor due to their shareholders.
wide and detailed knowledge of the A comprehensive auditor assessment questionnaire is completed annually audit of the Groups investments in in obtaining such services from by each member of the Committee Hansteen Property Unit Trust II and Deloitte.
and by the Finance Director.
In the Ashtenne Industrial Fund and the Where non-audit services are issuance of the Convertible Bond.
members of the senior management the work undertaken and are not External Auditor appointment success related.
Consideration Deloitte have been the Groups is given to the nature of and external auditor since 2006 when collated and the resulting analysis remuneration received for other considered by the Committee and services provided by Deloitte to the Report and Financial Statements.
any concerns are discussed with the The audit partner responsible for external auditor.
Every third year the from them that the fee payable the Groups audit matters is changed external audit partner will meet with for the annual audit is adequate the Committee Chairman and Finance to enable them to perform their the Ethical Standards issued by the Director to formally discuss the obligations in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board.
The current quality of the external audit process scope of the audit.
The Committee using this evaluation framework and has fully evaluated all non-audit work the outcome of those discussions will undertaken by Deloitte during the the emerging requirements for listed feed into the audit process for the year against its policy and remains companies regarding mandatory comfortable that it is appropriate and subsequent three years.
tendering every ten years and will establish a tendering policy based Payments made by the Group for teams role in the external audit on these requirements which will audit and non-audit fees for the year process is assessed principally using are disclosed on page 48. the following performance measures: December 2014.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Section 3 104 Corporate Governance Financial reporting Internal controls and risk There are reporting disciplines management including performance internal controls for the period under evaluating and managing the most review and up to the date of this forecasting.
has been in place throughout the Investment appraisal risk management process whereby year and up to the date of approval key risks to achieving our objectives of the Annual Report and Accounts.
framework for capital and and strategy as well as related development expenditure and controls and monitoring procedures Turnbull guidance and the Boards subsequent on-going appraisals.
in respect of those controls are below.
register is reviewed bi-annually and include regular meetings of the The Directors acknowledge their updated where appropriate and Board and Committee whose overall responsibility for the Groups system reports received from the executive responsibilities are set out above.
During the course of its reviews of for improvement are agreed for subsequent action.
The Companys order to safeguard shareholders principal risks and uncertainties are advised of any failings or weaknesses investment and the assets of the reported on page 24 and include which it has determined to be Group as well as the integrity of its the judgements and uncertainties accounting records and provide used in determining the fair value of in respect of necessary actions has reliable information for use within not been considered necessary.
the business and for publication.
The Directors acknowledge that such a the variability of rental income.
system is designed to manage rather This process is supported by: than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Management structure provide only reasonable and not There is a clear organisational absolute assurance against material Humphrey Price misstatement or loss.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 10 March 2014 HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC
