62 Strategic report We need to understand the needs and expectations Corporate responsibility of a wide range of stakeholders in order to provide Relationships a business that offers a great shopping experience with informed investors, passionate employees and well supported communities.
A key part of our Corporate Responsibility is managing and developing relationships with key stakeholders and engaging on relevant issues.
Stakeholder How we engaged in2013 Outcomes Customers To maintain our Focus group sessions intu is well informed of competitive edge shoppers needs and wants Off peak and peak shopper we must understand interviews We are able to evaluate our what our shoppers are customer strategy against looking for in a perfect Postcode surveys customer opinion shopping experience from retailer mix to customer serviceexpectations.
Retailers Broadening our support Maintaining strong Intu Senior Management met with Corporately as well as at for The Passage relationships and open key directors of many top retailers centre level we are well dialogue with our retailers in 2013 informed of retailer wants intu employees have continued to and other occupiers is and needs and so are able to Merchants association meetings support The Passage, which is a charity a prime focus of our consider this in any planning business.
We work to Feedback from shopper dedicated to helping homeless people in Retailers are kept well connect with them engagement provided to all retailers Westminster.
For several years we have informed of the opinions to ensure that we are of shoppers in each of our co-ordinated a quarterly work clothes providing the high quality centres and are able to tailor service they need.
collection amongst intu employees for their approach to that clients of The Passage who are seeking Investors to re-enter work and are applying for jobs.
In 2013 intu has offered further Constructive engagement Active engagement with all investor Inclusion in FTSE4Good and with our shareholders enquiries including a number of Dow Jones Sustainability support in a variety of ways including and potential investors, enquiries from ethical funds Global Index being sponsors of The Passages annual bankers and other Active participation in responsible Business in the Community fundraising event A Night Under the organisations on socially investor indices and tools such as CR Index Gold Status responsible investment Stars, holding internal fundraising events CDP climate change survey matters helps to raise Increased our CDP score for and donating almost 9,000 of printers awareness of how were the fourth year running and toners to the charity.
managing material For an outline of our environmental and approach to managing In 2014 we will be offering a range socialrisks.
relations with shareholders, of volunteering opportunities to intu see page 78 employees at The Passages day centre.
Our people Our employees are Comprehensive induction Increased understanding of fundamental to the programme for new employees employee views on workplace success of our business including specific CR module and company issues and to the delivery of Feedback from 2012 employee Employees are kept a high quality service.
survey provided and 2013 informed of all key business We believe that employee survey conducted developments employee engagement iskey to maintaining a Presentations of annual and For further details of our motivatedworkforce.
interimresults approach to people see page40 Annual CR presentation Employee recognition fund 44 per centutilised Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 63 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Stakeholder How we engaged in2013 Outcomes Local authorities and government Local authorities grant us We conduct government A Group-wide database permission to grow our engagement through industry-wide supports a co-ordinated portfolio.
Fostering strong organisations programme of engagement relationships with local onissues of relevance to our General managers and others authorities, town centre business such as business within the business maintain and management bodies and ratesand national regional develop links with local stakeholders other community business planning policy issues partnerships is therefore Work with local authorities on We publish details of Lights, camera, action vital to our centres updating of travelplans our policy positions on continued success.
Included a council leader in our ourwebsite Tyneside Cinema worked with intu CRstakeholder review Eldon Square and intu Metrocentre to engage a diverse group of 1518 year Suppliers olds from Newcastle and Gateshead in We recognise the wide In March 2013 we announced our Suppliers have greater range of potential impacts plans to launch a new venture understanding of intus documentary filmmaking.
The Northern arising from our supply with Europa Support Services, approach to CR Stars Documentary Academy enabled chain and therefore the who we were working with as part Further developed 17young people from around the need to engage with our of the Facilities Alliance.
The new relationships between region to work with professional suppliers across a range venture Intu Retail Services Ltd key suppliers and of issues.
was created to deliver total facilities filmmakers, gain training and experience relevantcolleagues management services to all intu in documentary film production, and to shopping centres across the UK shoot their own short films about people Included key suppliers in relevant and places in local areas of importance to internal meetings such as them.
Based in the Pop Up Film School CRManagement Committee and Energy Champions Forum at intu Eldon Square, participants also travelled around Newcastle, Gateshead Communities and the wider region to create their It is imperative that we During 2013 we conducted We are able to include short films.
The participants edited and maintain good links formal community consultations community feedback in our produced their films which received a with our communities regarding planned developments planning process and that weundertake atourcentres special screening at the Tyneside Cinema.
We are one of only 40 UK significant community For further details of our approach companies to hold the BitC consultations as part Find out more: to communities see page 59 and CommunityMark of our process for any intugroup.
co. uk cr2013 the 2013 CR Report planneddevelopments.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk 64 Governance World Class Service We are focused on providing our customers with an excellent experience at all of our centres and during 2013 we implemented a Group-wide World Class Service trainingprogramme.
The World Class Service training programme has been an enormous success throughout the Group, embracing Intus values of Creative, Bold and Genuine while focusing on delivery of world class customer service at all of our centres.
We recruited dedicated regional trainers who ran half-day workshops at every shopping centre over a period spanning nine months.
Employees at Intus Head Office at 40 Broadway London, including Directors and Senior Management, also attended the workshops, where possible at our shopping centres, to bring together employees from a range of disciplines.
At the end of each workshop every member of staff set a personal commitment to take forward to the next session, as well as personal goals to achieve in the future.
The benefits of World Class Service training have been far reaching with highly positive feedback from our employees.
The majority of our shopping centre staff are hugely enthusiastic about delivering World Class Service and are enjoying the interaction and positive feedback from our customers.
All of our centre staff now have smart new vibrant uniforms, new customer reception desks are being installed and creative new seating for customers is being trialled, as well as a number of additional initiatives designed to help make every customer visit more enjoyable.
All staff are encouraged to go the extra mile and make a positive difference to the experience of our customers.
We intend to continue to develop and evolve our World Class Service programme with regular refresher sessions and updates to be provided across the Group during 2014.
co. uk ar2013 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 65 Governance Governance Board of Directors 66 Executive management 68 Chairmans introduction 69 Corporate governance report 70 Directors remuneration report 82 Directors report 100 Statement of Directors responsibilities 102 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
