70 Governance Corporate governance report Leadership The Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Review Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities Adle Anderson Monitoring the integrity Neil Sachdev Setting remuneration policy Patrick Burgess To ensure that the Board offinancial statements, for all Executive Directors iscomprised of individuals Members internal controls and risk Members and the Chairman and Members with an appropriate balance Neil Sachdev management process and Louise Patten recommending and Andrew Huntley of skills, knowledge and Andrew Strang reviewing the effectiveness Adle Anderson monitoring the level and Neil Sachdev experience.
of the internal and external structure of remuneration Louise Patten auditors.
More information Nomination and Review More information More information Committee Report Audit Committee report Directors remuneration pages79 to 81. pages 74 to 77. report pages 82 to 99.
Executive Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities David Fischel Considers investment proposals, reviews progress on Patrick Burgess Oversee the management of the Groups Corporate projects and project expenditure in detail and receives Responsibility activities.
Members updates on other business matters.
Has delegated Members Matthew Roberts authority, within limits, to authorise initiatives and David Fischel Number of meetings in 2013 Mike Butterworth expenditure.
Martin Ellis Alexander Nicoll Hugh Ford Meets fortnightly CR Director More information Susan Marsden Jennifer Sandars Corporate responsibility report pages 54 to 63.
Trevor Pereira CR Manager Peter Weir Capital Projects Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Patrick Burgess Reviews new projects and project expenditure in detail and, as appropriate, comments on certain projects for Members theBoard.
Has no power to approve proposals or John Whittaker authorise expenditure.
David Fischel Matthew Roberts The Capital Projects Committee is not a formal Mike Butterworth committee of the Board.
Martin Ellis Terms of reference of the Audit, Andrew Huntley Remuneration and Nomination and Neil Sachdev Review Committees are available on theCompanys website.
The Board Led by the Chairman, the Boards overarching objective is governance framework which underpins the culture of the toprovide effective leadership to the Group underpinning the Group.
This framework consists of committees with specific business model described on pages 14 and 15 to ultimately delegated responsibilities as shown in the diagram above, deliver long-term growth and generate sustainable returns and internal policies, procedures and controls including for its shareholders.
Itdoes this by setting and implementing delegated authority limits which are regularly reported on, strategy, ensuring that its employees are professional, reviewed and updated by the Board and the relevant Board motivated and focused, and establishing a balanced approach Committees.
The internal processes are communicated to to risk within the framework of established controls.
all staff and are available at all times on the Groups intranet.
Delegated authority limits apply at all levels of the business and Appropriate and effective corporate governance is taken their application is incorporated into the standard procedures extremely seriously and is intrinsic to all aspects of the for the execution of all leases, licences, contracts and other Boards activities.
The Board is accountable to the Companys relevant documentation by the Group.
The Board considers that shareholders and other stakeholders for the good conduct the way in which both the Board and the Group function meets of the Companys affairs.
It has therefore established a the highest standards of accountability andprobity.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 71 Governance Corporate governance report The Companys approach to corporate responsibility is a key Matters reserved for the Board element of its overall governance culture.
We have consistently Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group demonstrated a strong commitment to high standards of is delegated to certain Board Committees, the Executive corporate responsibility, particularly focused on the local Directors with the support of the Chief Operating Officer and communities surrounding our shopping centres and details of senior management.
These delegated powers are supported our CR activities are set out in the CR report on pages 54 to 63, by delegated authority limits which are documented and kept which we strongly recommend shareholders to read, and on the under review by the Board.
Certain matters have been reserved for decision by the whole Board and a schedule setting out a list of these is reviewed Structure of the Board and independence regularly.
These include, but are not limited to Board structure strategy the application of the Board protocol for dealing with related-party matters dividend policy Chairman 1 major acquisitions and disposals, other capital expenditure Executives 2 Non-Executives 7 andcontrols risk management Board independence excl.
Chairman shareholder circulars and other documents required by the listing rules The Board also receives regular reports on the proceedings ofits Committees and considers their recommendations.
Executive 2 It has been the Boards custom over many years to ensure Non-Independent 2 that major decisions are taken after a reiterative process Independent 5 whichinvolves examination and review at several levels.
In part, this examination and review process is dealt with by the Board Gender split andother Committees mentioned below.
The Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman, Patrick Burgess, and of the Chief Executive, David Fischel, are separate and have been defined bythe Board.
In summary, the Chairmans responsibilities Women 2 Men 8 include leading the Board, setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
He also ensures that the Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors Board maintains effective communication with shareholders and management.
The Chief Executives key responsibilities include day-to-day management of the Groups operations in the most effective way possible, implementing the policies and strategies developed by the Board and developing the abilities and skills of the Groups personnel to the maximum potential.
0-3 years 3 3-6 years 3 Non-Executive Directors 6-9 years 1 The Non-Executive Directors bring an external and independent view to the Boards discussions, providing constructive challenge to executive management when appropriate.
Biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 66 and67.
co. uk 72 Governance Corporate governance report Leadership continued The Senior Independent Director Board meetings Rob Rowley stepped down as Senior Independent Director on The Board meets regularly during the course of the year, and 31 July 2013, and Andrew Huntley was appointed as Senior met a total of eight times in 2013.
There were five scheduled Independent Director in his place.
In this role, Andrew provides meetings as well as a Directors Away Day focused on plans and advice and additionalsupport andexperience to the Chairman strategy for 2014.
A further two unscheduled meetings were as required, and isavailable to act as an intermediary for the held, both of which were necessarily convened at short notice other Directorsifnecessary.
Andrew also leads the appraisal todeal with matters arising between the scheduled meetings.
of the Chairmans performance annually in discussion with the At each scheduled meeting, the Executive Directors, Chief other Non-Executive Directors, and is available as an additional Operating Officer and Company Secretary give reports on point of contact for shareholders should they feel that their key areasof responsibility.
In addition, the chairmen of the communication through the normal channels of the Chairman, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Review Committees Chief Executive, Secretariat or Investor Relations team has give an update on the discussions of those Committees, failedor is otherwise inappropriate.
highlighting any areas requiring escalation to, or consideration Alternate Directors by, the full Board.
Othermatters for discussion are added to John Whittaker and Richard Gordon have appointed Steven the agenda for scheduled Board meetings, or discussed at Underwood and Raymond Fine respectively as their alternates additional Board meetings, asrequired.
underthe terms of the Companys Articles of Association.
Key matters discussed approved by the Board in 2013 The Board has generally invited the alternate Directors to strategic acquisitions in the UK, including the acquisition attend Boardmeetings.
of Midsummer Place, Milton Keynes, to fill a gap in our national coverage, and the acquisition of Charter Place, Watford The attendance of Directors at all Board meetings held in 2013 is set out in the table below: refinancing of debt falling due in the next three years, in particular raising 1.15bn of bond and bank debt Board under the new debt funding platform established in Scheduled Additional February 2013 and the 485m bond issue secured on 5 meetings 2 meetings intuMetrocentre in November 2013 A B A B progress of development projects including major Patrick Burgess 5 5 2 2 extensions at intu Watford and intu Lakeside David Fischel 5 5 2 2 strategic acquisition of Parque Principado, Oviedo, Spain Matthew Roberts 5 5 2 2 1 with a strong partner John Whittaker 5 4 2 2 2 John Abel 2 2 the rebranding to intu and roll-out of the brand and new digital infrastructure across our centres Adle Anderson 5 5 2 2 Richard Gordon 5 5 2 2 Andrew Huntley 5 5 2 2 3 Louise Patten 5 5 2 1 4 Rob Rowley 3 3 2 2 3 Neil Sachdev 5 5 2 1 3 Andrew Strang 5 5 2 1 A Maximum number of meetings the Director was eligible to attend.
B Number of meetings actually attended.
1 Unable to attend the Board meeting in February 2013 due to personal commitments.
2 Stepped down from the Board on 8 May 2013.
3 Unable to attend an additional meeting convened at short notice due toprior commitments.
4 Stepped down from the Board on 18 October 2013.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 73 Governance Corporate governance report Communication between Board meetings Time commitment, external activities and conflicts of interest Directors are kept fully informed of progress on matters Non-Executive Directors are generally appointed for a threebetween formal meetings, in particular by way of scheduled year period and their continuing service thereafter is subject conference calls in every month when there is not a formal toreview by the Board.
Their annual time commitment will Board meeting, adhoc meetings and other communications vary according to their membership of Board Committees ona regular basis.
and the activities of thebusiness in any given year.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors set out the The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and Remuneration minimum expectation of preparation forandattendance Committee communicate regularly with relevant staff and at all Board meetings, Board Committee meetings where advisers including the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, the appropriate, ad-hoc meetings and the annual Board Away Day.
Company Secretary and the Remuneration Consultants.
Non-Executive Directors are required to confirm on accepting their appointment, and annually following each accounting year Effectiveness end, that they areable to allocate sufficient time to meet the Balance, composition and culture expectations of the role.
The Nomination and Review Committee regularly reviews the The terms of appointment for each of the Non-Executive balance including skills and experience and composition of Directors are available for inspection at the Companys the Board to ensure that it operates efficiently.
The Board has registered office, oron written request from the therefore determined that candidates for the role of NonCompany Secretary.
Executive Director should have relevant qualifications and experience notably in property, retail, and finance, areas that Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which are well represented by the current Non-Executive Directors they have or may have interests that conflict with those of Intu, see biographies on page 67. including when a Director takes up a position with another company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
The appropriate balance of skills, independence, experience The Board has adopted a formal procedure for the identification and knowledge does not in itself ensure the efficient operation of conflicts under which Directors must notify the Chairman of of a Board.
To this end, the role of the Chairman is essential in anypotential conflicts.
The Chairman then decides whether a creating an environment where the Non-Executive Directors conflict exists and recommends its authorisation by the Board are able to draw on their own experience to constructively where appropriate.
In certain circumstances, the conflicted challenge the views of the executive management.
Director may be required to recuse himself from the Boards The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary to discussions on amatter in which he or she is conflicted.
ensure that all Directors are provided with fully accurate and timely information to facilitate informed discussion at Board Directors must also notify the Chairman when they take on meetings.
The Chairman is particularly mindful that the views any additional responsibilities or external appointments, and of all Directors should be taken into consideration and that the it is their responsibility to ensure that such appointments range of experience of our Non-Executive Directors must be will not prevent them from meeting the time commitments drawn upon to provide insight and alternative perspectives to discussed above.
aid the Boards decisions on key strategic matters.
In addition, the Board has implemented a Related Party The Board reviews the independence of its Non-Executive Protocol for situations where a proposed transaction could Directors on an annual basis.
With the exception of John becaptured by the related party provisions of the Listing Rules Whittaker and Richard Gordon, both representatives of or by the Companies Act 2006. major shareholders, the Board has concluded that all other Non-Executive Directors continue to demonstrate their independence.
The balance of the Board is illustrated on page71.
co. uk 74 Governance Corporate governance report Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present to you the Audit Committee report Finally, in recognition of the requirements of the revised for 2013.
I joined the Committee on 22 February 2013 and Corporate Governance Code and, in part, resulting from succeeded Rob Rowley as Chair of the Committee on 1August recommendations arising from the Boards external 2013.
I would like to record the Committees sincere thanks performance evaluation, we have sought to further improve toRob for his effective Chairmanship over the last five years.
the focus and efficiency of Audit Committee meetings by updating the Committees terms of reference, overhauling the In addition to its core activities, the Committee has this year agenda and improving the effectiveness of routine reporting for focused particularly on enhancing the Groups approach to risk the meetings.
management: increasing the transparency and helpfulness of the Annual Report and financial statements.
The Committee has overseen a comprehensive risk review process, in part to address the changing nature of the risks we face as we move into a new operating environment, with Adle Anderson the focus on digital and a new jurisdiction with our activities Chairman of the Audit Committee in Spain.
The review included the introduction of a more structured assessment of risk appetite across the Group.
The results of the risk review were discussed by the full Board at its annual Away Day and the Groups risk management framework is described in detail on page 38.
Chairman Adle Anderson Independent Non-Executive Director Following the introduction of the Revised Corporate Governance Code, the Board asked the Audit Committee Members to advise it on whether the annual report is fair, balanced Neil Sachdev Independent Non-Executive Director and understandable and allows shareholders to make an Andrew Strang Independent Non-Executive Director assessment of the Companys performance, business model Meetings in 2013 and strategy.
The Audit Committee reviewed drafts of 1 the annual report, taking into account the opinions of the Audit Committee 4meetings external auditor and key executives of the Group in making A B itsjudgement and advising the Board accordingly.
2 Adle Anderson Chairman 3 3 In relation to audit tendering, the Committee is keeping 3 Rob Rowley 3 3 under review the ongoing legislative proposals from the EU Neil Sachdev 4 4 and the Competition Commission following which the FRC Andrew Strang 4 4 has stated that it intends to remove the reference to audit tendering from the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance A Maximum number of meetings eligible to attend.
Following our annual review of auditor quality and B Number of meetings actually attended.
independence, we have determined that it is not necessary 1 The Audit Committee normally invites the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director to attend meetings and they attended all four meetings to tender the audit contract for the time being, and have of the Committee in 2013. recommended that PwC be reappointed for the 2014 audit.
2 Appointed to the Audit Committee from 22 February 2013.
3 Stepped down from the Audit Committee on 31 July 2013.
The Board considers that Adle Anderson has significant recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the UK Corporate GovernanceCode.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 75 Governance Corporate governance report Responsibilities In reviewing the independence of the external auditor, the The Audit Committees key responsibilities are to monitor Audit Committee considered a number of factors, including and review the experience and tenure of the external auditor: the nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: and the integrity of the financial statements, including a review confirmation from the external auditor that it has remained in of the significant financial reporting judgements and compliance with relevant UK independence standards.
accounting policies The Chairman of the Audit Committee also met privately with the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and the lead audit partner on several occasions outside of the Audit risk management Committee meetings.
the effectiveness of the internal audit function, including The Audit Committee continues to monitor the ongoing thework programme undertaken by the function legislative proposals on audit tendering and rotation from the Groups policy on whistleblowing theEU and the Competition Commission.
These proposals haveeffectively superseded the comply-or-explain provisions the Groups overall approach to monitoring areas of risk inthe UK Corporate Governance Code which would otherwise the Companys relationship with the external auditor, have applied to the Group for the first time this year.
including its independence  LLP has been the Companys audit Main activities during the year firm since 1998 and during this period its effectiveness and In addition to its key responsibilities, the Audit Committee also independence has been annually assessed by the Audit considered the following matters in 2013 Committee which has not considered it necessary to require thefirm to tender for the audit work, and a resolution to the 2013 Internal Audit Plan and Audit Charter re-appoint  LLP for the 2014 audit accounting treatment of the most significant transactions in willbe proposed at the 2014 AGM.
the year including the acquisitions of Midsummer Place and The Committee will continue to review the effectiveness and Parque Principado, Spain and the newly established venture, independence of  LLP each year.
Intu Retail Services Key financial reporting and significant judgements discussion on the appropriateness of those items classified During the year the Committee discussed the planning, as exceptional in the year and therefore excluded from the progressand final conclusions of the external audit calculation of underlying earnings process.
Theaudit plan was reviewed and approved at the July the results of an impairment review of the carrying value of 2013 Committee meeting.
The significant risk areas identified the Groups investment in Prozone due to the market value were:investment property valuations: revenue recognition: of the shares trading at a discount to the Groups carrying and management override of controls.
International Standards value based on share of net assets.
The review concluded on Auditing UK and Ireland identify these latter two risks as that no impairment was required at this time significant for all companies.
These issues were discussed by theCommittee following finalisation of theyear end audit.
risks associated with the creation of the Groups new venture Intu Retail Services, that resulted in the Group in-sourcing The Committee takes into account the views of the external facilities management auditor in understanding and assessing whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether risks associated with the launch of the transactional website management has made appropriate estimates and judgements, intu.
co. uk and whether disclosures are balanced and fair.
The main issues changes to accounting standards and their potential impact discussed bythe Committee in the current year were: on the Group Valuation of investment properties the Group Whistleblowing policy, resulting in amendments For both the Interim results at 30 June 2013 and the full to the policy and procedures around its application years audited results included in this report the Committee reviewed and discussed with management and auditor tendering of the external audit contract the keyassumptions and results of the valuation process External auditor undertaken by the independent third party valuers.
The Audit Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the The review included understanding which general factors had external auditor,  LLP, based on its influenced the valuers in concluding on appropriate yields to performance against the audit plan and half year and full year use in the valuations.
This involved factors effecting both the reporting, taking into account feedback from management.
investment and occupier markets and recent comparable The effectiveness of the audit process was also reviewed on market transactions.
thebasis of meetings with finance, internal audit staff and othersenior executives.
co. uk 76 Governance Corporate governance report Audit Committee continued Particular emphasis was given to understanding the factors As a result of its considerations the Committee is satisfied that had resulted in individual property valuations being either that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced significantly above or below the average movement in the and understandable.
Non-audit services Due to the overall importance of the valuations to the Groups The Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of any results, the Board also invited DTZ, the firm that undertakes the non-audit services by the incumbent external auditor does largest proportion of the Groups valuations, to participate in its not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
consideration on the valuations, utilising the detailed property The term non-audit services does notinclude reference to any sector experience of the Board to ensure a thorough review of advice on tax.
The Audit Committee has considered the option of putting Going concern material non-audit work out to tender.
While recognising that The Companys going concern review which is based on thecircumstances of a particular transaction may make it an 18 month cash flow projection, with particular focus on inappropriate to use a firm other than the incumbent external the next twelve months, was discussed with management.
auditor for such work for example where the nature of the The projections cover the major trading cash flows, being rental transaction would not allow a new firm sufficient time to income, interest expense and capital expenditure plans in the assimilate the requisite knowledge of the Companys operations context of the latest debt maturity profile.
in order tocarry out the non-audit work, the Audit Committee has recommended that non-audit work should be put to tender Stress tests of the projections were considered, covering whereverpossible.
reductions in net rental income levels and the value of the Groups properties and what impact such changes may have The Audit Committee has delegated to the Executive onboth the Groups liquidity and its ability to meet the financial Directors the authority to contract for non-audit services covenants on its debt facilities.
The discussion also considered with the external auditor subject to observing certain what actions were available to the Group to mitigate the impact guidelines including of such reductions on the cash flow projections.
a E xecutive Directors have the authority to commission Following discussions with management, the Committee agreed the external auditor to undertake non-audit work up to a with the conclusions reached and the treatments relating to the specified value: above issues adopted in these financial statements.
b t he Executive Directors must consider whether the proposed Fair, balanced and understandable arrangements will maintain audit independence: and At the request of the Board, the Committee considered c t he external auditor must satisfy the Company that it is whether the 2013 Annual Report was fair, balanced and acting independently.
understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess Intus performance, Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for business model and strategy.
As part of its considerations audit and non-audit services are included in note 11 on the Committee took into account the preparation process page120 tothe financial statements.
The Company engaged detailed below  LLP to carry out certain non-audit work in 2013 including assurance services in respect of the at an early stage, a matrix is produced identifying key themes Groups 2013 interim report and work in relation to the and the sections in which those themes should be reflected prospectuses that were required to be published as part of the individual sections of Annual Report are drafted by listing requirements in respect of the Secured Group Structure appropriate senior management with regular review and Metrocentre bonds that were issued in the year.
The above meetings to ensure consistency across the whole document safeguards were adhered to when awarding the non-audit work.
Fees paid to  in respect of non-audit a verification process is undertaken to ensure that work represented 61 per cent of the total fees paid.
information contained is appropriately supported and factually accurate Risk management and internal control The Board has overall responsibility to oversee the Groups detailed reviews of drafts of the Report are undertaken system of internal control and to keep its effectiveness under by members of the Executive Committee and other review, as well as to determine the nature and extent of the senior management risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives drafts are discussed with the Groups legal advisors based on the balance of potential returns and negative and brokers impacts.
The ongoing risk management process is described in detail on page38 and is designed to manage, rather than a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and discussed with senior management prior to consideration by can provideonly a reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance the Board against material misstatement or loss.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 77 Governance Corporate governance report During 2013, the Groups risk management methodology The most significant areas addressed in 2013 were: Shopping has been further developed including in the introduction of Centre Healthchecks or follow up reviews at intu Lakeside, intu a new approach to identifying and prioritising risks, and a Eldon Square, intu Broadmarsh, Midsummer Place, Braehead formal assessment of risk appetite.
The risk management Leisure, and StDavids Dewi Sant: accounts payable review: process continues to evolve to provide Intu with appropriate a review of self-certification at the centres and Head Office: methodology as the operating environment changes.
a review of data held in the business: intu Digital compliance: reviews of lease data and lease systems: and corporate Key elements of the Groups internal control system relating to responsibility reviews at four centres.
Additionally, annual financial reporting are as follows assurance activities were performed.
The Audit Committee the Group has a comprehensive system for reporting regularly reviews the effectiveness of the risk and internal audit financial results to the Board: detailed regular financial function and in particular ensures that the function remains reports with comparisons to prior year historic performance sufficiently independent of the wider business to ensure it can and against budget and forecasts are provided to the Board.
An independent review of the Risk The Board reviews these for the Group as a whole and takes and Internal Audit function was performed at the end of 2013. action when appropriate Whistleblowing policy the Group undertakes a detailed financial reporting process The Audit Committee reviews the Groups arrangements by on a quarterly basis.
This process is carried out using the which staff can confidentially raise concerns about possible policies and practices that apply to the control environment improprieties whether financial or otherwise within the on an ongoing basis, and is largely undertaken by the Groups Group.
Any whistleblowing incidents are reported to the financial reporting team, which comprises appropriately Audit Committee: there were no incidents during 2013. qualified finance professionals.
Detailed planning is The Audit Committee has reviewed the Groups approach to undertaken prior to the period end.
As part of this process, whistleblowing and various measures have recently been taken significant business risks and their potential impact on to reinforce Intus commitment to an effective whistleblowing the financial reporting process and results are considered, policy and its awareness among staff, including including the effect of any changes in the business activities re-drafting the existing whistleblowing policy to make it or accounting standards and matters arising from the more user friendly, incorporate new avenues for raising underlying information systems.
The preparation of the concerns i. e. via an online facility, communicate the role of consolidated financial results involves a number of review the Audit Committee in the process, reflect Chief Executive stages.
One of these stages includes a technical accounting endorsement, and emphasise the protections afforded review by an internal technical specialist, who has primary to informants responsibility for ensuring that financial accounting developments are appropriately dealt with in the Groups improving accessibility to whistleblowing information and financial reporting process.
After various internal review advice via the Groups intranet stages, draft financial reports, with narrative commentary on creating an online form to register concerns new technical requirements or issues requiring a significant level of judgement, are prepared for review and approval by updating and improving the welcome message on the the Audit Committee.
This review stage involves the Audit whistleblowing hotline Committee discussing the consolidated financial results and enhancing publicity of the whistleblowing policy throughout significant judgements with senior management and, where the Group appropriate, the external auditor Audit Committee effectiveness The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness, on the As part of the Board evaluation process, the Audit Committee basis of criteria set out in the 2005 Financial Reporting Councils reviewed its own effectiveness and the results were overall internal control guidance for Directors, of systems of internal highly positive.
The Committee took the opportunity to financial control and risk management for the year ended streamline the agenda and papers submitted for its meetings 31December 2013 and has confirmed that there have been no toimprove efficiency and decision making.
material developments affecting their review which have taken place since the year end.
Internal audit The Group has a risk and internal audit function which reports to the Audit Committee.
The risk and internal audit Adle Anderson function reviews internal controls, and reports to the Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee on whether such controls are in place and are being 28 February 2014 operated effectively.
co. uk 78 Governance Corporate governance report Relations with shareholders Overall approach Intu places considerable emphasis on maintaining an open Investor conferences: Several investment banks hold andfrank dialogue with investors.
Our programme of investor conferences for investors and companies in the real estate relations activities is based around the financial reporting sector.
They are a good opportunity for the executive team calendar and seeks to to meet a large number of current and potential investors in a mixture of group and one-to-one meetings and informally.
develop existing and potential investors understanding Intuattended six such conferences in 2013 in the UK, Europe ofIntus business strategy, operations, performance and and the US investment case General meetings: The Annual General Meeting AGM, provide to the Board and executive team an insight into the usually held in May, gives the opportunity for all shareholders differing views of Intus shareholders private and institutional to ask questions of the Board, With these objectives in mind, the executive team including, including the Chairmen of both the Audit and Remuneration onoccasion, the Chairman met with representatives of 120 Committees.
The entire Board is also available to talk to investment institutions during 2013 to keep them informed of shareholders before and after the meeting.
The results of our performance and plans, to answer their specific questions all shareholder votes are announced via the London and and to understand their views.
In addition our website provides Johannesburg stock exchanges and are available on the to all shareholders a great deal of immediate as well as general Companys website information and a feedback facility.
Regular visits to our Interaction with sell side analysts: Many investors develop properties enable investors to see our operations close up.
their understanding of the Company partly through Key components of the investor relations programme discussions with independent analysts.
Intu engages with One-on-one meetings with principal shareholders: The analysts from around 25 institutions in order to improve Chairman is available to meet with key investors to answer the accuracy and insight of their research.
The Board is kept their questions and to better understand their views, informed of analyst commentary and recommendations.
particularly with regard to governance matters Alist of the analysts publishing material on Intu can be found at intugroup.
co. uk investors  Results-related meetings: Institutional shareholders are analysts invited to a presentation with question and answer session by the executive team on the day of announcement of final Debt investors: Representatives of Intus key relationship and interim results.
They can choose to attend in person, by banks are invited to the bi-annual results presentations by phoneor join the webcast.
The Chairman and anumber of the executive team and meet periodically with the Finance the Non-Executives also attend these presentations Director.
Institutional investors in certain of the Groups listed debt are invited to periodic updates on the Groups business Road shows: In the few weeks following results and performance.
We welcome the moves by some credit announcements, executive management conduct side institutional investors towards more openness regarding a series of one-to-one and group meetings with holdings of debt instruments and roadshow-style one-toinstitutional shareholders in the UK, South Africa, one meetings.
Europe and the US, giving the opportunity to meet other fund managers as well as the sectorspecialist of each institution.
Unattributable feedback from these meetings collectedbyour brokers is provided to the Board Investor and analyst property visits: Institutional shareholders are invited to attend at least one property visit each year with presentations on Intus business.
This gives an opportunity for formal and informal interaction with the executive team and the next tier of operational management.
In 2013, investors visited intu Trafford Centre, intu Lakeside, intu Braehead, intu Metrocentre and intu Eldon Square tosee recent changes and to hear about significant planned projects.
Such presentations are available for download from the Investors section of our website intugroup.
co. uk Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 79 Governance Corporate governance report Nomination and Review Committee Dear Shareholder, Chairman I am pleased to present to you the report of the Nomination Patrick Burgess Chairman of the Board and Review Committee for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Members The main focus of the Committee in the year was the Andrew Huntley Independent Non-Executive Director composition of the Board and its Committees, in particular Louise Patten Independent Non-Executive Director ensuring that suitable appointments were made to replace Neil Sachdev Independent Non-Executive Director Rob Rowley as Senior Independent Director and to fill the Meetings in 2013 various Committee membership positions which Rob held.
Nomination and Review Committee Adle Anderson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director 4meetings and Chair of the Audit Committee replacing Rob Rowley.
A B She also serves as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Patrick Burgess Chairman 3 3 The terms of reference for the Nomination and Review 1 Andrew Huntley Committee were reviewed and updated, and the composition 2 Louise Patten 3 3 ofthe Committee was reviewed and adjusted.
3 Rob Rowley 3 3 The Committee approved the introduction of a comprehensive Neil Sachdev 4 4 succession planning and leadership development programme A Maximum number of meetings eligible to attend.
across the Group, identifying appropriate internal succession B Number of meetings actually attended.
paths and establishing a programme for talent development.
1 Appointed to the Nomination and Review Committee from 1 December 2013.
The Committee also initiated the formal Board performance 2 Appointed to the Nomination and Review Committee from 1 April 2013. evaluation process which was undertaken this year by an 3 Stepped down from the Nomination and Review Committee from external facilitator, Claire Howard Consultancies, the outcome 18 October 2013. of which is summarised on page 81.
Finally, I am pleased to report that female representation on the Intu Board currently stands at 20 per cent, which keeps us ahead of recently reported figures for the FTSE 250 generally.
Our statement on our diversity policy is set out on page 80.
Patrick Burgess Chairman Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk 80 Governance Corporate governance report Nomination and Review Committee continued Responsibilities and how they were discharged in 2013 Appointment of Adle Anderson The principal role of the Nomination and Review Committee is Adle Anderson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on to evaluate the skills available on the Board and to determine 22 February 2013 following a rigorous appointment process when appointments and retirements are appropriate.
described in full in our 2012 Annual Report.
In addition to its key responsibilities set out above, the Succession planning Committee is also responsible for carrying out the annual Succession planning and the development of talent in performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the business was considered by the Committee and a individual Directors, as well as making recommendations comprehensive talent and leadership development programme, totheBoard on appointments to the Board, including the including succession planning, has been implemented across inductionprogramme for newly appointed Directors, and the entire Group from the Board down.
monitor the progress of the programme at every meeting.
The Committee met four times in 2013 with its main focus Renewal of Non-Executive appointments onthe composition of the Board and succession planning.
All Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in May 2014.
Statement on diversity policy Induction for new Directors The Nomination and Review Committee, and the Board, There is a comprehensive induction programme for new recognises the importance of boardroom diversity, notjust Directors which is tailored by the Chairman, inconsultation gender specific, and the Committees policy is to seek to withthe Chief Executive and Company Secretary, depending ensure that all available suitable candidates aretaken into onthe type of appointment but includes meetings with Board account when drawing up shortlists of candidates for possible members, senior management and external advisers as well as appointments to theBoard.
However, the priority of the ahigh-level review of all current projects, Board strategy and an Committee and the Board is toensure that the Group continues in-depth review of the Groups assets.
to have the strongest and most effective Board possible, and therefore all appointments to the Board are made on merit Where required, the Company Secretary provides guidance, against objective criteria.
The Board is supportive of the Davies or facilitates the provision of training on Directors individual Report recommendations in relation to board diversity and is duties under the Companies Act 2006 and on legal, regulatory pleased to report that there are two female Non-Executive and governance matters with which the Company, Board and Directors on the Board.
Female representation on the Board individual Directors must comply.
Board composition The Committees discussions regarding the composition of the Board continued to be framed by the previously stated goal of reducing the overall size of the Board.
Following changes to the Board composition during the year, the Committee is satisfied that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and its Committees is appropriate and no further appointments are currently planned or envisaged.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 81 Governance Corporate governance report Education and development 2013 performance evaluation The Chairman, with the assistance of the Nomination The 2013 performance evaluation was conducted by and Review Committee, regularly considers the need for an external facilitator, Claire Howard Consultancies, in Directors to update and expand their skills and knowledge.
6.2 of the UK Corporate Training is provided for Non-Executive Directors in the form Governance Code.
The evaluation took the form of of presentations at Board meetings, as well as attendance at confidential one-to-one meetings between the facilitator, relevant seminars and courses.
MsHoward, and each Board Director and other Board The Board also recognises the need for Directors to keep up meeting attendees.
Ms Howard prepared a report to the to date with relevant legislative and regulatory developments Board following these interviews with key points identified as well as changes to corporate governance best practice and under the broad headings of: Communications, transparency investor expectations.
The Company Secretary reports to and boardroom dynamics: Alignment on the Boards strategy: each Board meeting on these matters, drawing attention to and Board composition and succession planning.
The key any issues ofparticular relevance.
In addition, the Company points identified formed the basis for recommendations which Secretary maintains an up-to-date comprehensive schedule the Board used to establish an action plan for 2014.
The main summarising legislative and regulatory developments relevant areas covered by the action plan for attention in 2014 are to theCompany and rated according to risk impact on the revisions to Board and Committee timetable and Group, which is available to the Board and Senior Management.
sequencing of meetings Performance evaluation additional meetings of Remuneration Committee to Every year, the Board conducts an evaluation of its own develop the new format Directors remuneration report performance and of the performance of the Chairman and eachof the Board Committees.
In addition, the Chairman reviews more presentations to the Board by Senior Management the performance of each individual Director and the Senior across the Group on topics of particular relevance Independent Director oversees the review of the Chairmans performance.
The evaluation process conducted during 2012 generated three areas requiring attention during 2013 and progress against those areas is shown in the table below: Area identified for attention in 2013 Action taken Patrick Burgess More frequent Nomination and Additional meetings four Chairman Review Committee meetings in total: 2012 one held 28 February 2014 anda revised composition in2013 Terms of reference updated Composition of Committees revised Still more frequent Increased frequency of communication Board updates between meetings Introduction of electronic Board papers Further measures to improve More Board events such as the Boards cohesiveness visits and presentations at our shopping centres Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
