Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 11 Strategic report Overview Governance and remuneration review The Governance section on pages 64 to 102 which includes the Board structure Directors remuneration report sets out in detail the governance structure of the Group and the activities of the Board and its Committees during 2013.
Chairman 1 Governance and remuneration highlights Executives 2 Non-Executives 7 New statutory format for Directors remuneration report Section Shareholder vote Pages Board independence excl.
Chairman Directors remuneration policy Binding 83 to 89 Annual remuneration report Advisory 90 to 99 Changes to Board and Committee composition Adle Anderson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February Executive 2 Non-Independent 2 2013, and John Abel and Rob Rowley both stepped down asNonIndependent 5 Executive Directors during the year.
The following appointments and changes tothe composition of Committees were made: Average salary Vote on 2012 Directors increase for all staff remuneration report Director Appointed as Andrew Huntley Senior Independent Director 4.2% 91.3% Nomination and Review Committee member in favour Adle Anderson Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Chairman Executive Director bonus % of salary Remuneration Committee Member Louise Patten Nomination and Review Committee member 65% 68% Chief Executive Finance Director Boardroom diversity Our statement on diversity policy is set out in the Nomination and Executive Director Review Committee report on page 80.
We have two female Directors, salary increases representing 20 per cent of the Board.
0% 2.5% Risk management Chief Executive Finance Director As described in the Audit Committee report on pages 76 and 77, acomprehensive formal appraisal of risk appetite has been undertaken, UK Corporate Governance significantly enhancing our annual risk management review process.
Code Compliance UK Corporate Governance Code compliance We have complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout all of 2013.
Performance evaluation Our Board evaluation exercise was carried out by an independent external consultant and the key areas of focus arising from the exercise were: revisions to Board and Committee timetable and sequencing of meetings additional meetings of Remuneration Committee to develop the new format Directors remuneration report more presentations to the Board by Senior Management across the Group on topics of particular relevance Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk 12 Strategic report Business model and strategy Creating destinations with a broader offer We aim to provide the best places to shop, eat, drink and be sociable.
To bring people from further, for longer, more often.
11 per cent of our rent now comes from food and leisure operators and with many of our centres now open beyond 6 pm, visitors can enjoy their offers well into the evening.
We know that if shoppers enjoy a drink, a meal or an event they stay longer and spend more, helping our retailers to thrive and attracting new brands and investment.
So thats why we are investing in improving the range, quality and environment of our dining and leisure offer.
Our 1.2 billion pipeline of development projects over the next ten years includes plans to create 1.5million sq.
ft. of new contemporary catering and leisure space thats an 80per cent increase on todays.
ft. has already received planning consent and we have applied for a further 360,000 sq.
Projects range from the new food court at intu Lakeside, a new dining quarter at intu Eldon Square, a major leisure destination in the heart of Watford, a street food concept at Midsummer Place to a nine screen cinema at intu Potteries.
These reinforce the long-term attractiveness of the assets and, with operators keen to expand into our high footfall destinations, contribute a sound financial return for shareholders.
co. uk ar2013 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 13 Strategic report Business model and strategy Business model and strategy Business model 14 Strategy 16 Chief Executives review 18 Top properties 34 Key performance indicators 36 Key risks and uncertainties 38 Our people 40 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
