Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Board believes that the Company has complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A full version of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
Further details on how compliance is achieved can be found in the Corporate Governance and Directors Remuneration Reports.
A4 Role of the Non-executive Directors The Board currently consists of nine A The Chairman promotes an open individuals, the Chairman, two Executive Leadership and constructive environment in the Directors, and six independent boardroom and actively invites the Non-executive Directors.
A1 The Boards role B2 Board appointments The Board meets nine times a year in order The Senior Independent Director, Michael The appointment of new Directors to the to review the Companys performance and Wareing, held a meeting with the NonBoard is led by the Nomination Committee.
The Boards executives in the absence of the Chairman The Nomination Committee terms of role is to lead the Group with a view to the to appraise the Chairmans performance.
reference, as published on the Company creation of strong, sustainable financial website, document the responsibility performance and long term shareholder The Chairman has held regular meetings regarding Board appointments.
The value, to approve the Groups Strategic with the Non-executives in the absence Committee consists of all six Non-executive Plan and to monitor management of Executive Directors, providing Directors and the Chairman.
Further details performance against plan.
an opportunity for any concerns of the appointments undertaken during to be discussed.
the year and succession planning can be The Board has adopted a clear schedule found on page 43. of matters reserved for its specific approval, including a framework for those B3 Time commitments decisions which can be delegated to The time commitments of Non-executive committees or otherwise.
Directors are defined on appointment and B regularly evaluated.
The Chairman gives Further details can be found in the Effectiveness consideration to new directorships which Corporate Governance Report.
may impact existing time commitments.
A2 A clear division of responsibilities B1 The Boards composition B4 Training and development The Boards policy is that the roles of the The composition of the Board is reviewed On appointment, Directors undertake Chairman and CEO should be performed regularly by the Nomination Committee to a structured induction programme, which by different people.
The division of ensure that there is an appropriate mix of is supplemented by visits to key locations responsibilities is documented and clearly skills on the Board and a range of diverse and meetings with senior executives.
The Chairman is responsible experience.
Board members biographies training for Directors is offered when taking for the leadership and effectiveness are provided on pages 36 and 37, which a new role on a Committee, and is otherwise of the Board, and the CEO is responsible identify the experience each Director available as required and may be provided for leading the day-to-day management brings to the Board.
A table identifying through tailored programmes.
of the Company within the strategy set the skills and experience of the Board by the Board.
members may be found on page 43.
Further details can be found in the Directors professional development A3 Role of the Chairman The Board determines, through the section on page 43.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Nomination Committee, the independence meetings, manages the meeting timetable of its members.
Conflicts of interest are B5 Provision of information and facilitates open and constructive also monitored and updated at least and support dialogue during the meetings.
annually and more frequently as and The Chairman, in conjunction with the when required.
Company Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timely information.
68 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance through the year, which are usually B6 Board and committees D attended by the CEO and the CFO.
performance evaluation Further details can be found in the The Board and the Board Committees Remuneration Corporate Governance Report on undertook an internal evaluation in 2013. pages 40 and 41.
Details of the process undertaken and a table of actions instigated by this D1 Levels and elements E2 Constructive use of the AGM evaluation are included on page 40. of remuneration The Board values the AGM as an important The Board believes that the Groups opportunity to engage with investors.
B7 Re-election of the Directors Remuneration Policy continues to enable Attendees at the AGM have the opportunity All Directors were subject to shareholder the Group to attract, retain and motivate to ask questions to the Board and to speak re-election at the 2013 AGM.
the executive talent required for the delivery to individual Directors following the formal of its business strategy, while linking closely business of the meeting.
to the long term performance of the Group and the interests of shareholders.
For further information, see the Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 49 to 54.
C D2 Development of remuneration Accountability policy and packages The membership of the Remuneration Committee is made up of Non-executive C1 Financial and business reporting Directors only.
The terms of reference The Statement of the Directors for the Remuneration Committee are Responsibilities is set out on page 67, reviewed annually and are available on and the Independent Auditors Reports the Company website.
The Remuneration Committee has delegated authority for setting the The Companys business model is explained remuneration of Executive Directors and on pages 4 and 5. the Chairman.
The fees payable to the Non-executive Directors are determined C2 Risk management and by the Board, on recommendation from internal control systems the Executive Directors Committee.
The Board sets the Companys risk appetite and annually reviews the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
The activities E of the Audit and Risk Committees, which assist the Board with its responsibilities Relations with shareholders in relation to risk management, reporting and assurance, are set out on page 46.
E1 Shareholder engagement C3 Role and responsibilities and dialogue of the Audit Committee Effective communication and Details of the composition of the Audit engagement with investors are of Committee, and how the Committee has paramount importance to the continued discharged its responsibilities during the success of the Company.
The Company year, are provided in the Audit Committee maintains a relationship with shareholders Report on pages 44 to 47. through a series of roadshows completed www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69
