Corporate Governance Report This part of the Annual Report and Accounts, together with the All Non-executives have confirmed they have sufficient time to meet Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 48 to 63, describes their time commitments to the Group.
Copies of their appointment how the Company has applied and complied with the principles letters are available on request to the Company Secretary and will be contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code published in available for inspection at the AGM.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available from its website www.
In accordance with the Code, which recommends that all Directors A high level summary of our compliance with the Code is shown of FTSE350 companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual on pages 68 and 69. basis, all Directors currently in office will retire and seek re-election at the AGM.
In addition, Simon Nicholls and Jonathan Flint, who were Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Code appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013, are seeking election by The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In shareholders at the 2014 AGM for the first time.
accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that, throughout the year ended 31 December The Board has set out in the circular a resolution to elect Simon Nicholls 2013 and at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, it was as an Executive Director and Jonathan Flint as a Non-executive Director compliant with the provisions of the Code.
and explains why it believes they should be elected.
The Chairman confirms to shareholders when proposing election or re-appointment Share capital that the individuals performance continues to be effective and that Details of the share capital of the Company and the powers of the individual continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
the Directors in relation to allotment, issue and market purchase Non-executive Directors are subject to Companies Act provisions of shares are given in the Directors Report on page 64. relating to the removal of a Director.
The Board composition The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman John Devaney, meetings and leading the Board.
The CEOs responsibilities include a CEO Bob Murphy, a CFO Simon Nicholls and six other Non-executive development and implementation of the Groups strategy, operational Directors of whom Mike Wareing is the Senior Independent Director.
performance and corporate social responsibility.
He also focuses on All Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent and the long term growth and development of the Group, its people and Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
The Boards policy is that the roles of all held office throughout the year except Simon Nicholls and Jonathan Chairman and CEO should be performed by different people.
Flint, who both joined the Board on 1 May 2013.
Warren Tucker, the former CFO, stood down from the Board on 1 May 2013.
Marcus The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include the provision Beresford stood down from the Board, having completed nine years of an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and as a Non-executive Director, at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
He also provides another point of contact for shareholders if they have concerns that communication through the Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve, or other significant commitments, are set out on pages 36 and 37. where these contacts are inappropriate.
The wide ranging experience and backgrounds of the Non-executive Directors enable them to support, debate and constructively challenge Marcus Beresford stood down as Non-executive Director and Senior management in relation to both the development of strategy and Independent Director at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
The role the performance of the Group.
The attendance of Directors at Board of Senior Independent Director was assumed by Michael Wareing meetings is set out on page 37 and attendance at principal Board following Marcus retirement.
committee meetings as members of such committees during the year is set out in the reports from each committee on pages 42, 44 and 48.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years, which can be extended by agreement provided that the individuals performance continues to be effective.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by contacting the Company Secretary.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing a special resolution.
The Directors and the Company in the latter case by ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
38 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance The Board and its proceedings Overview Role and focus The Boards main duties are to: Lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable financial performance and long term shareholder value: Review and agree Group strategy: Ensure that the necessary resources are in place: Monitor management performance: and Supervise the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
Highlights of 2013 The Board and senior management devoted additional time to the further development of the Groups strategy: Dear Shareholder Talent and succession planning has been high on the agenda, with various initiatives implemented to ensure we have the As I mention in my Chairmans Statement right resources to deliver our strategic objectives: earlier in this report, 2013 has been a year of Approved the acquisition of the Axell and FB Heliservices significant activity.
The Board has been busy groups of companies: refining the strategic objectives and ensuring Overseen the search and appointment of a new CFO: the structure is in place to position the business Overseen the restructuring of the senior management group: to achieve the Groups Strategic Plan.
Evaluated and approved six large bid submissions above authority limits delegated to the Executive Directors outside EiD is transitioning to continuous improvement of the regular Board meeting agenda: and initiatives and the streamlining of business Monitored the progression of the EiD programme and approved operations continues.
the transition to a continuous improvement initiative, with resource within the business to progress this further.
The key focus for the Board during 2013 has been supporting the Executive Directors, Priorities for 2014 both of whom are relatively new to the Group, Review performance against agreed strategic enablers: to put in place the strategic enablers needed Continued focus on market evaluation and strategic development: to achieve the Groups Strategic Plan.
This Continued rebalance of the portfolio towards the has involved revisiting the constitution of the commercial market: and senior management team with more emphasis Oversight of Strategic Workforce Plan and placed on customer relationships, operational organisational realignment.
excellence and the development of our talent.
Our markets in 2014 will continue to challenge Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, and we will continue to work hard to respond take place five times a year on a face to face basis, four times a year to those challenges.
I trust we can rely on your by telephone and otherwise as required.
There is contact between support for the foreseeable future.
meetings to progress the Groups business as required.
Meetings were held at the head office in Wimborne, at the Companys London office and at an international operational location Exeter in the US.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director held a meeting with the Non-executives in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman has held meetings with the Non-executives in the absence of the Executive Directors.
J Devaney The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, Chairman sustainable financial performance and long term shareholder value.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval.
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated either to committees or otherwise.
Among the key matters on which the Board alone may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its five year plan, its consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments to and removals from www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Corporate Governance Report continued Evaluation year Observations Actions taken 2012 The risk management process needs to be strengthened with clear The Risk Committee was strengthened during 2013 with the membership delineation between the work of the Risk and Audit Committees expanded to include the Group Executive.
The risk appetite statement and the Board.
was considered, approved and published during the year.
More rigour should be placed around paper compilation The substance of reports was improved and a standard reporting and submission.
format adopted, introducing a more timely and efficient process.
Senior management objectives need to be visible to the Objectives for the Group Executive were presented to the Board for Board to support talent and succession planning.
Opportunities for the Board to meet members of the Cobham high potential programme will continue to be pursued.
2013 Members of the Group Executive should be provided with Presentations from the Group Executive to be built into the Board opportunities to present to the Board on their areas of the Work Plan for 2014. business to provide more exposure to the Board members.
Continued development of the strategic planning process.
A two day Board meeting in 2014 has been added to the Board schedule, with the business of that meeting devoted purely to strategy.
Ongoing strategic updates form part of the rolling Board agenda.
Authority is delegated to management on a structured Performance evaluation basis in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis.
ensuring that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate During 2013, the Board and its committees undertook an internal level.
Matters delegated in this way include, within defined evaluation.
The evaluation included the circulation of a questionnaire.
parameters, the approval of bids and contracts, capital expenditures The Board considered the output and has approved an action plan and financing arrangements.
The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its A table of actions instigated by this and the previous performance business, including the timely provision of information, and the evaluation is included above.
Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board on corporate governance Financial reporting matters.
The Company Secretary is appointed, and can only be In the Directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2013, removed, by the Board.
together with the interim management statements, the interim report and other reports made during the year, present a fair, If a Director were to have a concern which cannot be resolved, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position it would be recorded in the Board minutes.
Non-executive Directors are invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board if they have concerns.
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing No such statements were made during 2013. the Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial Review on page 27.
All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are disclosed, noted and authorised.
Procedures are in place Shareholder relations and operating effectively to keep such disclosures up to date.
A summary of the 2013 activity by our Investor Relations team is shown below.
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Preliminar y Interim Interim 2013 Interim 2012 results Management results Management Statement Statement Webcast & Webcast & Conference conference conference call call call Investor Investor Industry Investor conferences Investor conferences conferences exhibitions & industry exhibitions conferences Site visits Site visit Site visits Investor meetings Investor meetings Interim Management Statement is a short quarterly update on the Groups trading, significant events and financial position.
40 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance A full programme of engagement with investors and analysts, investors regard the Group, its strategy, markets, businesses, both in the UK and overseas, is undertaken each year by the CEO, financial position, capital allocation, governance, communications, CFO and Director of Investor Relations, including presentations, valuation and investment standing.
industry exhibitions, roadshows and site visits.
Site visits are hosted by senior members of management within the business units and Communication with shareholders also takes place via RNS are intended to give investors detailed insight and access to the announcements, the Groups website, the Annual Report and business operations.
Accounts, the interim management statements and the AGM.
The AGM is attended by all Directors and shareholders have the The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and opportunity to question the Board on its stewardship of the Group activities of the Group and engages in regular dialogue with them.
During and to meet the Directors informally.
The results of the votes on the year, the CEO and the CFO held regular meetings with shareholders the resolutions proposed at the AGM are published on the Groups to discuss information made public by the Group.
A wide range of business website at www.
and corporate governance topics were discussed with institutional investors during the year as part of the investor relations programme.
These included Responsibility statements Cobhams overall performance, the Groups markets, particularly with Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on respect to the development of the US Department of Defense budgets, page 67 and those relating to the auditors are on pages 73 and 126. progress on the Groups EiD programme, progress against the Groups strategic objectives, changes in senior management and cash deployment The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
including dividends, share buy-backs and mergers and acquisitions.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
Committee chairmen provide oral reports on the work undertaken by The Non-executive Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are their committees at the following Board meeting.
Information relating available to meet with major shareholders at any time.
The Chairman met to the Nomination and Audit Committees appears below and the with four of the top five shareholders during October 2013 and gave them activities of the Remuneration Committee are described in the Directors an opportunity to raise any concerns they had with communications, Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 63.
All Board committees are ethics and or governance.
In summary, those met raised no concerns provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
and were very pleased with business performance.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also consulted with major shareholders during The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors the year with regards to executive remuneration arrangements.
The Executive Directors are members of this Committee under the chairmanship of the CEO.
The purpose is to assist the CEO Presentations were given on the day of the announcement of the in the performance of his duties and its terms of reference include interim and preliminary results.
The presentations were accompanied establishing and implementing internal policies, systems and controls by a live webcast for shareholders unable to attend in person.
Copies to ensure that potential inside information is communicated to it, of the associated presentation materials, together with webcasts, considered, verified and released to the market where required, the can be accessed at www.
Presentations discharge of obligations arising under the Companys share plans, the are conducted in accordance with the FCAs Disclosure Rules on the determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors, dissemination of inside information.
the approval of banking facilities and the approval of bids and contracts.
This Committee met on 28 occasions during the year and, in addition, The Board receives a report from the CFO at each of its meetings as required to respond to business needs and market conditions.
on investor relations generally, including significant changes to shareholdings, meetings with and feedback from shareholders The Group Executive Committee and the other principal and research published on the Group.
The Board also received management committees are shown in the table below.
an independent report during the year outlining how institutional Board of Directors Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee The Board is ultimately Group Executive incorporating the Risk Committee responsible for corporate governance and the Groups Contract Bid Merger & Corporate Business Ethics Internal Audit Talent Board Safety, Health Approval Acquisitions Responsibility & Compliance Sub-committee & Environment system of internal control, & Sustainability with day to day responsibility resting with management.
Principal Board Committees Management Committees www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Corporate Governance Report continued Nomination Committee Overview Membership and attendance Number of meetings attended held J Devaney Chairman 4 4 1 M Beresford 2 2 2 D Flint 2 2 M Hagee 4 4 J Patterson 4 4 M Ronald 4 4 3 M Wareing 3 4 A Wood 4 4 1 M Beresford retired from the Board and hence the Nomination Committee on 25 April 2013.
2 D Flint joined the Nomination Committee on joining the Board on 1 May 2013.
3 M Wareing had been hospitalised before the February meeting, which he could not attend.
Other attendees CEO, by invitation.
Role and focus The Nomination Committees main duties are to: Dear Shareholder Review the structure, size and composition of the Board: and Consider succession planning for Directors and other A key focus during 2013 has been the senior executives.
appointment of two Directors, one Executive, one Non-executive.
Both of these appointments Highlights of 2013 were managed in conjunction with Korn Ferry Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Whitehead Mann, recruitment consultants who of the Board: have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct Considered external appointments to subsidiary boards: for executive search firms.
Korn Ferry provided Considered succession planning to ensure the Group is a shortlist of candidates for these roles.
The well positioned for the future: shortlisted candidates were interviewed by Conducted a thorough and comprehensive search for two myself and separately by Mike Wareing, new Non-executive Directors, one yet to be appointed: and Alison Wood and John Patterson before Conducted an effectiveness review.
Priorities for 2014 As mentioned last year, a fresh look at talent Conclude Non-executive Director search to replace and succession further down the management John Patterson who will stand down at the conclusion chain has been undertaken during the year of the 2014 AGM.
and significant progress made, which has been described in the talent management section of the CR&S report on page 33.
J Devaney Nomination Committee Chairman 42 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed Directors professional development during the year, are available on the Companys website at On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme, www.
com or on application to the in the course of which they receive information about the operations and Company Secretary.
activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the Groups corporate governance practices and procedures The Committee is cognisant of the need for diversity, including and their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed gender diversity, when considering the composition of the Board.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations In recruiting for Board roles, targets have been set around ensuring and meetings with, and presentations by, senior executives.
a proportion of female applicants are included in the candidate pool for Non-executive Director positions.
For the recent recruitment, Training for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by the profile has included the requirement for a diverse geographical means of external courses, internal computer based training, briefing background and commercial market experience.
Elsewhere in the from specific consultants or in-house presentations.
In addition, Directors business, diversity in the workforce is taken very seriously and a full knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment is updated through report on current strategy is set out in the diversity and inclusion the provision of information by the Groups advisers and by means of section in the CR&S report on page 34. regular updates from the Company Secretary and the legal team.
The current Board composition, in relation to the Non-executive Board succession planning Directors, as of 31 December 2013, is set out in the table below identifying the skills and experience of the Board members.
J Devaney Succession planning Succession planning takes place at Board and senior management level on J Patterson a regular basis to ensure that the Group is managed by executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge.
The Board has a role to play M Ronald in overseeing the development of management resources in the Group.
Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality in management M Hagee and robust processes are in place to help the Board in this task.
M Wareing Succession planning for Non-executive Directors is based on maintaining a depth of knowledge and experience on the Board.
The Nomination A Wood Committee actively manages Non-executive Director succession, having regard to anticipated retirement dates for existing Directors, and initiates D Flint focused searches for Non-executive Directors as positions are required.
2005 2010 2013 2015 2020 2025 The current Board composition in relation to the Non-executive 1st term 2nd term 3rd term Directors, as of 31 December 2013, in terms of length of service and current term is shown diagrammatically in the table adjacent.
Years with Independence Cobham Skills Experience UK Corporate Leadership Strategy Governance Corporate Engineering Defence Finance US Market UK Listings HR J Devaney 3 R Murphy 1 S Nicholls 0 D Flint 0 M Hagee 5 J Patterson 8 M Ronald 7 M Wareing 3 A Wood 2 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee Overview Membership and attendance Number of meetings attended held 1 M Wareing Chairman 4 5 2 M Beresford 2 2 3 D Flint 3 3 M Hagee 5 5 1 M Wareing had been hospitalised before the February meeting, which he could not attend.
2 M Beresford retired from the Board and hence the Audit Committee on 25 April 2013.
3 D Flint joined the Audit Committee on joining the Board on 1 May 2013.
Other attendees Individuals who attended and received papers for each Audit Committee meeting included: Chairman papers received and attends by invitation : CEO papers received and attends by invitation : CFO: Group Director of Financial Control: Head of Internal Audit: Company Secretary or her representative: and Senior representatives of the Companys external auditors.
Dear Shareholder Other senior executives were also invited to certain meetings It has been yet another busy year for the Audit to present and discuss specific items.
The Committee periodically Committee and much has been reviewed and meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and the external reported from across the Group.
auditors without the presence of executive management and also separately with the CFO.
We have kept abreast of the ongoing consultations on audit reform and implemented new processes Role and focus and reporting to deal with the revised Code The Audit Committees main duties are to: requirements and narrative reporting.
Monitor the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and any formal announcements relating to its financial performance, We welcome the Competition Commission decision reviewing accounting policies used and judgements applied: to delay their conclusions on audit tendering until Consider the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems: the outcome of the European Commission work is Consider the effectiveness of the Groups risk management known.
Further comment on the tendering of the procedures: external audit is made below.
Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities: Each member of the Committee brings relevant Make recommendations as to the appointment, remuneration skills and experience at a senior executive level and and terms of engagement of the external auditors: the appointment of Jonathan Flint broadens the Monitor and review the external auditors independence scope of expertise of the Committee.
I currently including the provision of non-audit services and objectivity chair the Audit Committee of two other FTSE and the effectiveness of the audit process: companies and was the International Chief Review arrangements by which the Groups employees may Executive of KPMG until I retired in September confidentially raise concerns about possible improprieties: 2009.
This provides the Board with assurance that Provide assurance to the Board on whether the Annual the Audit Committee meets the Code requirements Report and Accounts for 2013 was fair, balanced and that at least one member of the Committee understandable: and has significant, recent and relevant financial Report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
The key skills and experience of each member of the Committee are shown on page 43.
M Wareing Audit Committee Chairman 44 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance Allocation of time spent during the year Set out in the table and the narrative below is a summary of matters considered by the Committee during 2013.
Key issues Highlights of 2013 covered by the Committee are reported to the subsequent Monitored and contributed to the debate on external audit meeting of the Board and all Board members have access tendering rotation led by the UK Financial Reporting Council to copies of the minutes of each meeting.
FRC, UK Competition Commission and the European Feb Apr Jul Nov Dec Commission, and considered the impact on the Group: Financial reporting and Considered how to adapt procedures and implemented significant financial judgements new processes to provide advice to the Board on whether Full year results and associated the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, announcements balanced and understandable and provides all information Half year results and associated necessary to a shareholder to assess the Groups performance, announcements business model and strategy: and External audit Greater scrutiny given to the Groups LCM process, EiD controls Auditors full year report to the Committee and IT controls, including cyber risk.
Independence review of external auditor Priorities for 2014 Effectiveness review Continued oversight of the impact of the defence market of external auditor uncertainty on the financial position of the Group: Review of engagement letter Continued monitoring of the external audit tendering rotation Appointment recommendation to the Board debate and consideration of the Groups audit tender timetable Auditors half year report as appropriate: and to the Committee Continued focus on the Groups governance framework Annual external audit plan including LCM, EiD, IT controls and risk management processes.
Chairmans approval of non-audit fees Review of audit and non-audit fees Internal audit Effectiveness review of internal audit Internal audit report to the Committee Risk management Fraud and whistleblowing report Risk management report to the Committee Review of the risk sections of the Annual Report Review of risk management framework Annual review of internal controls Other Updates on accounting and corporate governance developments Terms of reference review Review of effectiveness of the Committee LCM review www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Corporate Governance Report continued Risk management and internal controls Cobham Code of Business Conduct violations and fraud The Board is responsible for the oversight and application of the Groups The CR&S section of this report, on pages 32 to 35, contains details of risk management and internal control systems, the aim of which is to the Cobham Code of Business Conduct and the mechanisms, including manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Groups business those maintained by independent third parties, by which suspected objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders violations of the Code are raised and independently investigated.
The investment and the Groups assets.
The Board receives reports on a Audit Committee received reports providing details of these cases, their regular basis from the Audit Committee in relation to the effectiveness outcome, and any corrective actions taken.
The reports also included of the Groups system of internal control and has, accordingly, reviewed details on anonymous reporting rates and the duration of the the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in respect investigations.
In addition, the Committee also received reports of 2013.
The review covered all material controls, including financial, providing details of any fraud losses.
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems and is designed to give assurance that the day to day risk management Financial reporting and significant financial judgements and internal control policies and procedures, which are embedded in the The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have business, have operated effectively in the review period.
The principal been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates elements, which are split into three lines of assurance, are outlined in the and judgements and also seeks support from the external auditors diagram shown on page 28.
Such a system is designed to manage rather to assess them.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Committee reviewed the following main issues for the year misstatement or loss.
ended 31 December 2013: Issue Committee action Conclusion with reasoning Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control.
Carrying value of Reviewed internal papers Satisfied that these were Division Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, investments and covering the basis and reasonable and appropriate, including the maintenance of business unit and divisional risk registers, potential impairments.
and that the disclosures exist to identify and manage risks and to regularly carry out formal made were appropriate.
The Risk Committee undertakes a top level review The accounting for Considered accounting Satisfied that accounting of significant risks and the CEO reports regularly to the Board on revenue recognition.
policies and external was reasonable and audit reviews.
The accounting for Considered accounting Considered that contract profitability, policies, management accounting and provisions The latest Principal Risks and the risk management process are including the recognition reports, detailed contract were appropriate.
highlighted on pages 28 to 31. of contract loss appraisals, legal advice, provisions.
and internal external audit reviews.
The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been The control environment Reviewed the summary Satisfied that the system developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and of the Group to mitigate of management letters of internal controls opportunities to which it is exposed.
This includes a strategic planning the risk of management of representation and was reasonable process involving the preparation of the Strategic Plan, a comprehensive override of internal results of internal and and appropriate.
budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the Board, the regular revision of financial forecasts for the year, the monitoring of financial performance and the appropriate delegation of authorities At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether to operational management.
Delegations and other operational controls the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and are contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance understandable and whether it provided the necessary information Manual.
Specifically with regard to the financial reporting process and for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model the preparation of the Group Financial Statements, the system includes and strategy.
It was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2013 Annual an annual and semi-annual representation letter from all business units.
Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
This Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that financial assessment was underpinned by the following: reporting is based upon reliable data and that the results are properly stated in accordance with Group policies.
Comprehensive guidance issued to contributors at operational level: A verification process dealing with the factual content of the reports: The Committee believes that the current arrangements comprising Comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the the half yearly risk assessment process, a rotational programme Group that aim to ensure consistency and overall balance: and of internal financial and other control reviews by the internal audit Comprehensive review by the senior management team.
function, other experienced internal teams, external experts and business reviews carried out by the CEO and CFO and a process External auditors of self-assessment of internal financial controls by all business External audit processes units provide appropriate coverage of the Groups activities.
During the year,  LLP PwC undertook Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for remedying external audit and certain non-audit work.
The Audit Partner, Stuart them are developed and progress monitored.
Watson, together with the Audit Director, attended as representatives of the external auditors at each Audit Committee meeting.
Stuart 46 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance also attended the 2013 AGM.
PwC provided the Committee with in February 2014 and overall the feedback was positive.
information and advice as well as relevant reports on the financial The Committee is, therefore, satisfied that PwC continues statements and controls.
to provide an effective audit service.
In July 2013, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms, areas The Committee has recommended that a resolution be proposed of responsibility and scope of the December 2013 year-end audit as at the AGM to re-appoint the external auditors and to allow the set out in the external auditors engagement letter.
During the year, Board to set their remuneration.
PwC provided audit related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting.
PwC is expected to report to the Committee any material External audit tendering departures from Group accounting policies and procedures that it PwC have been the auditors of Cobham plc for many years.
identifies during the course of its audit work.
None were found or reported in the financial year.
During the last two years, the Committee has been monitoring and, through its Chairman, contributing to the debate on external audit tendering.
The The Independent Auditors report to the members of the Company Committee has given preliminary consideration to the potential impact can be found on pages 70 to 73, and pages 125 and 126. of the requirements by the FRC and the UK Competition Commission regarding audit firm tendering, which are welcomed.
However, the Committee Independence and objectivity notes that the European Commission has proposed potentially conflicting The Committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid the guidelines in this area and that the Competition Commission has revised possible compromise of the auditors objectivity and independence.
its administrative timetable to enable it to consider the implications These include a policy regarding the supply of audit and non-audit of the European Commission proposals.
We will continue to monitor services and a policy on the employment of external audit staff.
developments in this area and await the outcome of the consultations.
Non-audit services, as defined from time to time in the policy, can be provided subject to pre-approval by the Committee where the cost The Committee considered tendering for the provision of the external of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined limit and the cost audit service during 2013.
The Committee concluded that, in light of the does not exceed the overall limit set out in the policy.
above continuing regulatory uncertainty and the need to properly plan for a full audit tender process, a tender of the external audit should be The total fees paid to PwC in the year ended 31 December 2013 together delayed, subject to the continued satisfactory performance of PwC, with a comparison to fees paid in the year ended 31 December 2012 are until the finalisation of the European Commission and Competition set out in the following table.
Further disclosure of the non-audit fees paid Commission guidelines.
It is, however, our intention to consider carrying during the year can be found in note 5 to the Group Financial Statements.
out a formal tender process once the regulatory position is clear.
Non-audit There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys Year Audit Non-audit Total fees fees as a % choice of external auditors.
m fees fees paid of audit fees 2013 2.1 1.7 3.8 81% Internal audit 2012 2.0 1.1 3.1 55% During the year, prior to each of the five scheduled Committee meetings, the Chairman of the Committee met with the Head of The nature of services received from and fees paid to the external Internal Audit and his reports were reviewed and discussed in detail.
auditors during the year include tax compliance and HR advisory services.
The Committee considered the results of the internal audits and the adequacy of managements response to matters raised in them, PwC also provides specific assurance to the Committee on the including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
arrangements and safeguards it has in place to maintain its independence and objectivity, including an internal process to In February 2014, the Committee conducted an annual review of pre-approve provision of non-audit services and the use of separate the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, including teams where non-audit services are being provided to the Group.
its terms of reference, its audit plans, its general performance and its relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee is satisfied The external auditors follow regulatory requirements to maintain that the internal audit function continues to provide an effective the objectivity of the audit process, which stipulate in relation to the internal audit service.
senior engagement auditor, a five year rotation policy.
Stuart Watson was appointed as lead audit partner in 2009 and has now come to the end of his tenure with Cobham.
Stuart will be succeeded by Pauline Campbell.
The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors remain independent.
M Wareing Audit Committee Chairman Auditor appointment and effectiveness 5 March 2014 The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance of the external auditors, including feedback from the finance teams at each of the operating companies.
This review was conducted www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47
