GOVERNANCE letter From the nominations committee Dear Shareholder, Leadership and succession planning were also key topics for discussion this year.
We Last year we appointed a new Chief Executive established a Talent Panel to examine and and a new Non-executive Director.
This year enhance the way we recruit and develop the we made no changes to the Board, although careers and experience of people at all levels we did make a number of changes to the of the business.
The panel is chaired by composition of our Board Committees.
Our focus has been on Board evaluation, the professional development of members of the Over the following pages you can read more Board, succession planning and the adoption about the actions of the Committee, including of a new Board Diversity policy.
We have also our work on Board effectiveness.
commenced a search for a new Non-executive Director to join the team.
The evaluation of the Board was conducted Alison Carnwath independently by leading board evaluation Chairman firm, Boardroom Review.
The review highlighted the positive and open culture Committee members: that we have on our Board.
It also noted the Alison Carnwath Chairman Boards range of skills, experience and Kevin OByrne contribution.
You can read more about the Independent Non-executive Director review on page 65.
Chris Bartram Of course, there is always room for Independent Non-executive Director improvement.
In the coming year we will be concentrating on our longer term vision and on ensuring the Board continues to have The Committees written terms of reference are available the optimal range of skills, experience, on the Companys website at www.
com about-us diversity and personalities to succeed.
We corporategovernance board-committees are on course for the Board to comprise 25% women by 2015, in accordance with Lord Davies recommendations and our new diversity policy.
A leading search consultant attended a meeting of our Nominations Committee in March to discuss our requirements for a new Non-executive Director.
Our intention is to make this appointment over the next 12 months.
64 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE Board eFFectiveness nominations committee agenda Board evaluation cycle chart 44 The Committee met twice during the year.
Matters considered included: monitoring the Boards structure, size, External evaluation Questionnaires on the Interviews with the Chairman composition and diversity to achieve a balanced by independent, issues raised in Year 1 by and Group General Counsel external consultants the same independent and Company Secretary and effective Board in terms of skills, knowledge consultants and experience: reviewing the leadership needs and succession planning of the Group including identifying and developing talent: Board evaluation engaging an executive search consultant to search for a new Non-executive Director: considering potential conflicts of interest amongst Directors: undertaking a rigorous review of the Review the work of the Board, Conclusions of the Progress against Areas for focus independence of Sir Stuart Rose and David Board environment and use Board Review 2012 evaluation 2013 14 Rough, who will shortly complete 10 and 11 of time targets years of service on the Board respectively.
The review explored three key aspects: 1. the work of the Board strategy, risk and control, and performance management Board environment and access 2. the Board environment culture and composition to appropriate inFormation 3. the use of Board time planning and allocation.
A positive and transparent culture exists on the Board with good contributions from Conclusions of the Review each Board member.
The environment The Board was effective and operating to a high level.
Particular areas encouraged Directors to raise challenging of strength included: questions, debate issues freely and respond financial reporting, internal controls, the Audit Committee and risk to each other.
management process The papers presented to the Board were confidence in the Chief Executive and the Executive Team focused on the Boards priorities and were the Boards open and inclusive culture, contribution and the quality clear and well-articulated.
The agenda of Chairmanship structure combined presentation and debate.
the structure of the Board calendar, agendas, papers and support In addition to Board meetings, the Board corporate culture, the development of remuneration policies and calendar included presentations from executive succession.
executives below Board level, non-executive sessions without the Executives present and Progress against 2012 evaluation targets Board dinners with a variety of attendees good progress had been made against the previous years Board evaluation targets: including Senior Managers.
Effective support Managements recommendations were updated to improve the assessment of how to the Board, including governance matters, proposals fit with Group strategy, forecasts and alternatives was provided by the Group General Counsel improvement in the focus and content of finance papers and Company Secretary.
operational reviews also included regular updates on progress with the Groups key developments.
Areas for focus for 2013 14 to more closely monitor sector changes a commitment from the Company to ensure the Non-executive Directors are able to familiarise themselves with more of the Groups properties the future Board composition, and the balance of formal and informal time inviting more external subject matter experts to facilitate discussions in highly specialised areas such as technology.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 65 GOVERNANCE evaluation oF the perFormance diversity policy induction oF the Board The Board works hard to ensure that it is Stacey Rauch was appointed as a Non-executive The three-year review cycle started again able to recruit Directors from different Director on 1 January 2012.
A comprehensive this year with an independent, formal and backgrounds, with diverse experience, induction was arranged for her by the Chairman rigorous evaluation of the performance of the perspectives, personalities, skills and and Group General Counsel and Company Board, its Committees, the Directors and the knowledge.
We believe that diversity Secretary.
Her induction has continued this year Chairman, conducted by Boardroom Review.
amongst Directors contributes towards a with visits to properties and development sites high performing, effective Board.
During The review included meeting the Chairman across the Retail Portfolio including those at the year, we adopted a new diversity policy, to agree the scope of the evaluation, Gunwharf Quays, Lewisham, the O2 at Finchley which is summarised below.
individual meetings with each Director and and the W12 centre in Shepherds Bush and a the Company Secretary, and attendance at We have made good progress in terms of tour of additional London properties.
Stacey also the December 2012 Board meeting.
The gender diversity, with more women now met with a number of Senior Managers in the outcome of the evaluation was fed back to filling senior management positions across organisation including Portfolio Directors and the Board at the meeting in February 2013. all of the major divisions of the Company.
Centre Managers, as well as our external auditor Boardroom Review does not have any We continue to focus on this area.
other connections with the Company or Securities participates in the FTSE crossindividual Directors.
mentoring programme for women wishing to operate at board level in senior positions.
Board away day Chairmans evaluation Through this we provide a mentoring service Kevin OByrne, the Senior Independent The Boards away day was held over two days for women in FTSE companies and other Director, led the evaluation of the in London and included: companies reciprocate.
Chairman after the Board meeting in an overview by Robert Noel of his first ten November.
He gave feedback to the In support of our policy on diversity, we months in his role as Chief Executive, which led Chairman on the outcome.
intend to report annually on the following to a detailed discussion of the business objectives and initiatives that promote gender a workshop on changing consumer behaviours, proFessional development, support, and other forms of diversity amongst our and technical innovation and sustainability in training and induction For directors Board and Senior Management: retail, facilitated by Richard Akers The Chairman organised a development our target to have at least 25% of our Board session on Corporate Responsibility CR.
presentations from external experts on the made up of women by 2015, whilst ensuring This included an overview of Land Securities macro-economic environment and property that candidates are always selected on merit current approach, CR programme and market outlook.
we will consider candidates for appointment emerging issues around sustainability and as Non-executive Directors from a wider responsibility.
A Board away day was also pool, including those with little or no listed held, to discuss strategy, develop and refresh independence company board experience the Boards knowledge and skills.
The Nominations Committee reviewed and we will only engage executive search firms confirmed the independence of Sir Stuart The Board has two specific knowledge who have signed up to the voluntary Code Rose and David Rough, who will shortly development sessions planned in each year.
of Conduct on gender diversity and best complete 10 and 11 years of service This year the Board received presentations practice respectively.
In accordance with the UK on legal and commercial developments in we will ensure the topic of diversity is raised Corporate Governance Code and guidance leases and on Corporate Responsibility during each Board evaluation published by shareholder bodies, a rigorous initiatives within the Group.
review of their independence was conducted.
we will assist the development of a pipeline Board knowledge of the Companys property This included an analysis of their of high-calibre candidates by encouraging portfolio was enhanced through site visits contributions to the Board and Board a broad range of senior individuals within by the Directors to the developments at Committees, and their external interests the business to take on additional roles so 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, Nova Victoria, and roles.
they can gain valuable external board-level SW1, Trinity Leeds and Buchanan Galleries, The Committee concluded that both David experience.
and Sir Stuart were independent in character To enrich the experience and development and judgement.
They noted, in particular, of Executive Directors and Senior Managers, their objectivity, the constructive challenge the Group supports the taking up of nonthat they provide to management, and the executive directorship positions at listed additional support and guidance they give companies and charities.
Richard Akers to Executive Directors and Senior Managers therefore continued as a Non-executive outside Board meetings.
Director of Barratt Developments PLC.
The Committee also concluded that the remaining Non-executive Directors were fully independent in character and judgement.
In addition, the Committee confirmed that Alison Carnwath was independent at the time of her appointment as Chairman.
66 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE re-election to the Board conFlicts oF interest Board gender split chart 45 The effectiveness and commitment of the The Board operates a policy to identify and, men 80% Non-executive Directors has been reviewed.
where appropriate, manage conflicts or Women 20% The review noted that the time commitment potential conflicts of interest.
had gradually increased over the last five The Nominations Committee monitors this years.
The Nominations Committee is and considered that there was a potential for satisfied with the time commitment of each a conflict of interest to arise for Chris Non-executive Director during the year and Bartram, Kevin OByrne and Richard Akers.
confident that each of them would be in a The Committee addressed these potential position to discharge their duties to the conflicts as detailed in the table below.
Company in the coming year.
As detailed in the notice of the Annual General Meeting, all Directors will stand for re-election.
women in executive chart 46 positions potential conFlicts oF interest men 80% Director potential conflict Mitigation Women 20% Chris Bartram Chairman of Orchard Street Chris Bartram did not take part Investment Management OSIM in discussions or see relevant and a Non-executive Director information on potential of The Crown Estate, which are, acquisitions of property where in some areas of operation, there was a realistic prospect of competitors of the Group OSIM or The Crown Estate also being involved.
Kevin OByrne Executive Director of Kingfisher Since operational matters, such as land securities chart 47 plc, a large tenant of the Group retail leasing, were unlikely to be gender split considered at Board level, the Committee concluded that in men 54% practice conflicts of interest were Women 46% unlikely to occur.
Richard Akers Non-executive Director of Barratt The risk of a conflict was Developments PLC, a leading considered low given that the housebuilder Group operated in different sectors of the property market to Barratt Developments, which is predominantly a residential developer.
Nevertheless, Barratt Developments agreed not to circulate any papers to Richard Akers or involve him in discussions regarding an acquisition or disposal of land they believe might be in competition or place him in a position of conflict with the Company.
