GOVERNANCE introductory letter to the corporate governance report From the chairman oF the Board Dear Shareholder, During the year we paid particularly close of risk amongst Directors was very high and attention to how the retail and office markets a consensus emerged as to the levels of risk uk corporate governance code are changing, what effect this may have on the Board is happy for the business to take.
I am pleased to report that once again, your the requirements of our customers and how Company has complied in full with the 2010 we must adapt to meet their needs.
Board committees UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our Board Committees have continued to Board eFFectiveness perform effectively.
Following a year of At Land Securities, we believe that good We measure the performance of our Board considerable change with the appointment corporate governance is more than just an through a series of individual director of a new Chief Executive, the focus of the awareness and adherence to rules.
It is about assessments and this year also by an Nominations Committee included the Board the Board setting clear expectations for externally facilitated board effectiveness effectiveness review, succession planning at conduct throughout the business, embracing review.
This was conducted by a leading the Senior Manager level and the search for difficult issues and being honest and open in board evaluation firm, Boardroom Review, a new Non-executive Director.
which completed a comprehensive and Remuneration Committee completed an rigorous evaluation of the Boards work, extensive consultation on changes to the We monitor developments in corporate effectiveness, composition and efficiency.
remuneration of our Executive Directors, governance, both in the UK and The outcome was positive.
The review which received overwhelming support from internationally.
We adopt emerging practice generated a number of insightful suggestions shareholders.
It also considered guidance where it has the potential to enhance which we have set aside time to address over from investors on their expectations for transparency and improve our business the next 12 months.
We will report on executive remuneration and the various performance over the long term, whether progress against them next year.
consultations and proposals from the or not it becomes mandatory.
We talk to our Department for Business, Innovation & Skills shareholders regularly and welcome their We are aware that we must continually for Directors remuneration.
The Audit feedback on our approach to governance develop our knowledge and skills so we can Committee considered a number of key risks and what they expect from us.
respond to changing market conditions and within the business and oversaw a tender new business challenges and opportunities.
You will find more on chieF executive and management Our Board development sessions this year the work of the Committees in this report.
This was Robert Noels first year as Chief concentrated on corporate responsibility, Executive and he has made a significant changing occupier requirements and Over the following pages we describe our impact.
He has enhanced our governance consumer behaviours, technical innovation corporate governance framework in more and operational processes by establishing the and sustainability.
detail and include case studies of our London Executive Committee and the Retail governance in action.
I hope you will find this Executive Committee.
These Committees are risk helpful in understanding our commitment responsible for the oversight and governance Our Board meeting in September focused on to good governance.
The purpose of the session was to gauge information on the Committees, please see the risk appetite of Directors and their page 62. perception of the level of risk currently being taken in the business.
Directors were asked The Board continues to support and whether they would like to see the Company challenge management on significant Alison Carnwath increase or decrease its exposure to risk as a strategic matters, including the shape of the Chairman means of improving returns.
The awareness organisation and changes in our markets.
60 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE leadership the role oF the Board and its committees chart 40 Board Committees Executive Committees A copy of reserved matters is available to the Board remuneration committee view on the Corporate Governance section The Board provides leadership to the The Remuneration Committee is responsible of the Companys website: www.
It sets the strategy and oversees its for determining the remuneration and com about-us corporate-governance implementation, ensuring that acceptable conditions of employment for Executive role-of-the-board.
It ensures that the right people Directors and Senior Managers.
The and resources are in place in order to deliver Committee met four times during the year.
long-term value to shareholders and benefits audit committee Further information on the work of the to the wider community.
The Audit Committees primary function is to Committee during the year can be found in assist the Board in fulfilling its financial and To help retain control of key decisions, the the Remuneration Report.
During the Board has put in place a formal schedule of year the Committee met four times.
reserved matters that require its approval.
corporate responsiBility committee The Committee reviews items such as the The principal reserved matters are: The Corporate Responsibility CR half and full year results and then makes Committee reports to the Chief Executive.
strategy: a recommendation to the Board.
The Committee meets every two months and new business areas: is responsible for: Further information on the work of the authorisation of transactions in excess of defining strategic priorities in CR: Committee during the year can be found 150m and those which are otherwise later in this section.
monitoring CR performance: and significant: ensuring that CR activities remain directly internal controls and risk management: nominations committee related to our business objectives.
remuneration policy through the The Nominations Committee is responsible Remuneration Committee : Our Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 for considering the Boards structure, size, is available at www.
com composition and succession needs.
It also shareholder circulars and listing responsibility.
has oversight of the succession planning for particulars: Senior Managers.
The Committee met twice matters relating to share capital, such as during the year.
Finance committee share buybacks: The Finance Committee comprises the Chief treasury policy and significant fundraisings: The Committee will lead such items as a Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and search for a new Non-executive Director and dividend policy: and David Rough, a Non-executive Director.
will then make a recommendation to the appointment removal of Directors and the It met three times during the year.
Board on the suitable candidate.
The Committee is responsible for considering Further information on the work of the The Board also delegates matters to Board the Groups funding and reviewing certain Committee during the year can be found Committees and management.
Clearly funding activities including the approval of later in this section.
defined written limits support these all new debt facilities.
Depending on the level delegations.
and type of funding, further approval may be required from the Board.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 61 GOVERNANCE asset and liaBility committee Board composition and roles Senior Independent Director The Asset and Liability Committee members The Board comprises the Chairman, three Kevin OByrne as Senior Independent include all of the Executive Directors, the Executive Directors and six independent Director is available to discuss any concerns Groups Research Manager and the Groups Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman and with shareholders that could not be Director of Tax and Treasury.
It met three Chief Executives key responsibilities are resolved through the normal channels of times during the year.
The Committee is summarised as: communication with the Chairman or responsible for reviewing the following Chief Executive.
No such concerns were items, many of which come to the Board for raised in the year.
Chairman information and discussion: As Chairman, Alison Carnwath is As at 1 April 2013, the composition of the responsible for leading the Board, its Board was: the external environment: the economy, effectiveness and governance.
She sets the financial markets, the property cycle and tone for the Company, and ensures the links the property markets in general: split oF directors chart 41 between the Board and management and funding in the context of the Groups the Board with shareholders are strong.
Chairman 1 longand short-term requirements: Executive directors 3 Chief Executive Non-executive the forecast impact of acquisitions, disposals Directors 6 As Chief Executive, Robert Noel is and developments on the Groups balance responsible for the day-to-day management sheet: of the Groups operations, for balance sheet gearing ratios and balance recommending the Groups strategy to the sheet resilience in the event of market Board and for implementing the strategy shocks: and agreed by the Board.
liquidity analysis of the portfolio, development length oF tenure oF chart 42 Executive Directors and pre-development exposure.
non-executive directors Martin Greenslade and Richard Akers support Robert Noel in devising and 0-3 years 2 investment committee implementing strategy and in relation 4-6 years 2 The Investment Committee meets weekly to the operational performance of 7-9 years 1 when required and comprises the Groups the business.
It is responsible for approving significant transactions including Independent Non-executive Directors acquisitions, disposals, developments and David Rough, Sir Stuart Rose, Kevin other transactions where they have a value in OByrne, Chris Bartram, Simon Palley and excess of 20 million or are otherwise unusual.
Stacey Rauch as Non-executive Directors constructively challenge the Executive senior management Board Directors and monitor the delivery of the The Senior Management Board is made up agreed strategy within the risk and control of the Groups Executive Directors and, with framework set by the Board.
effect from 1 April 2013, the Groups General Counsel and Company Secretary and the Board and committee meetings and attendance taBle 43 Groups HR Director.
It meets weekly and Audit Nominations Remuneration invites other senior executives to discuss Board Committee Committee Committee operational matters.
meetings meetings meetings meetings Director london and retail executive committees Alison Carnwath 7 7 2 2 4 4 The London Executive Committee and Retail Robert Noel 7 7 Executive Committee members comprise Martin Greenslade 7 7 senior executives across the London and Retail business units respectively.
The Richard Akers 7 7 Committees review governance and 1 David Rough 6 7 4 4 4 4 operational performance within their 2 Sir Stuart Rose 7 7 1 1 business units and ensure adherence to the Kevin OByrne 7 7 4 4 2 2 Groups strategic and financial aims, 3 4 assessing and mitigating key risks.
Chris Bartram 7 7 2 2 2 2 3 3 Simon Palley 7 7 4 4 To put the work of many of these Committees 5 into context, see page 63 where we have Stacey Rauch 7 7 3 3 prepared a case study on the X-Leisure 1.
Board meeting rescheduled at short notice, which resulted in David Rough being unable to attend the Board meeting as he was travelling.
Sir Stuart Rose stepped down from the Remuneration Committee after its 9 May 2012 meeting.
Chris Bartram stepped down from the Audit Committee after its 5 July 2012 meeting.
Chris Bartram was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 19 July 2012.
Stacey Rauch was appointed to the Audit Committee on 5 July 2012.
David Rough stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 31 May 2013.
62 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE Board activity legal and compliance Richard Akers Executive Director Seven principal Board meetings were held operational performance of the corporate responsibility during the year.
At every meeting each Retail Portfolio operational performance of the Executive Director gave a report on his trends in retail property markets London Portfolio particular area of responsibility within the retail property trends in the London property market business, which were primarily: Health and Safety Martin Greenslade Chief Financial Officer valuation Robert Noel Chief Executive overview of the Groups financial overview of the Groups operational environment performance performance and key activities the Groups financial statements In order to show how our governance works progress with the Groups key the Groups five year forecast and budget in practice, we have included the following business targets case study: human resources treasury and tax investor relations information systems case study: x-leisure acQuisition Considered the impact of the transaction.
Assessed the impact of the Day-to-day running Considered the Committees' acquisition against the Group's of the project.
recommendations in the Reviewed the financial strategy and maintained oversight context of the Group's strategy and strategic of the transaction.
Approved the terms of the acquisition within certain parameters.
Updated regularly with progress on the project with views sought at key points.
Considered re-financing of each loan facility.
Asset and Liability Committee A special Board meeting considered and During the year, we Audit, Building Surveying, HR and Legal This Committee considered the transaction approved the transaction delegating increased our ownership teams: and by leading external financial in the context of the economic authority to an Executive Director to settle advisers, property advisers and law firms environment, and its likely impact on the the detailed items.
from 12% to 59.4% of the in the UK and Jersey.
Due diligence helped Groups balance sheet, cash flows and 8.
Shareholder announcement X-Leisure Unit Trust, a us to calculate the price we were willing funding requirements.
On signing, an announcement was released to pay and the returns we expected Jersey regulated specialist 6.
Validation via the London Stock Exchange.
The project team sought and received fund investing in leisure 9.
Retail Executive Committee approval from the Retail Executive The Retail Executive Committee and properties.
The project team produced a detailed paper Committee and the Investment the project team agreed a detailed for the Retail Executive Committee.
The Committee before non-binding Heads integration plan for the management Committee considered the returns, the of Terms were signed.
The Committees This was a significant step towards our goal company, which was set to become a risks and the impact on the Retail Portfolio.
assessed detailed due diligence and of increasing the proportion of leisure subsidiary of the Group.
The Retail integration issues, as well as individual assets within the portfolio.
Investment Committee Executive Committee assumed asset plans for each of the properties was substantial and high profile, involving a This Committee considered the proposal in responsibility for integration.
diverse mix of leisure assets, from cinema the context of the Groups strategy, complexes to restaurants, health and 10.
Finance Committee alternative opportunities and the likely 7.
Board approval fitness centres, bars, nightclubs and indoor Following the purchase, the Finance impact on balance sheet, cash flows and At the early stages of the project, the Board ski slopes.
Here we highlight how our Committee considered the re-financing earnings.
considered a discussion paper which governance and review processes informed of loan facilities within the fund, some of enabled the Directors to raise questions the various stages of the acquisition.
Senior Management Board which were nearing expiry.
It will also well in advance of the requirement for Further due diligence was carried out by the consider future financing arrangements.
Project Team project team and our advisers.
The team acquisition terms were close to approval, The opportunity to purchase units in kept the Retail Executive Committee and the Investment Committee approved the X-Leisure was evaluated by our retail team the Senior Management Board updated on outline terms and recommended them to and corporate finance team the project progress and sought their views at key the Board.
They were supported by internal points.
experts from the Tax, Insurance, Treasury, Land Securities Annual Report 2013 63
