GOVERNANCE letter From the chairman oF the audit committee Dear Shareholder, In light of emerging best practice, this year we decided it was appropriate to put our external I would like to give you an overview of the audit out to tender.
The Committee operation and scope of the Audit Committee appointed a Selection Panel comprising and report on our work over the past year.
Alison Carnwath, members of the Committee The Group has a strong culture of risk including myself and management.
After awareness embedded in decision making, a thorough review process, we have appointed and robust processes that support the Ernst & Young LLP as our auditors.
Their identification and management of risk.
reappointment will be subject to Again, this year we undertook a high level shareholders approval at the 2013 AGM.
review of risks, including the assessment of our Top 10 risks for the Group and a Watch List of emerging risks.
We also examined some in more detail, with experts from the Kevin OByrne business invited to attend meetings to update Chairman, Audit Committee us on the identification and mitigation of risks specifically people risk, cybersecurity Committee members: and Scottish devolution.
Kevin OByrne Chairman During the year our Internal Audit team David Rough Independent Non-executive assessed the financial controls and risk Director management in place on a number of our new Stacey Rauch Independent Non-executive developments, including Trinity Leeds and Director 62 Buckingham Gate, SW1.
They also undertook a number of audits, including audits of the Treasury and Health and Safety functions, to provide assurance to the Audit Although all of the Committee members are considered to be appropriately experienced to fulfil their role, Kevin OByrne is Committee that the control environment was considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Further biographical details of each of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 58 and 59.
The Committees Our valuers, Knight Frank, and auditors, written terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
com about-us corporate-governance  LLP, regularly board-committees.
attended our meetings to update us on the valuations and results respectively.
I met with both to discuss their work both in the company of management and in their absence.
68 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE external audits and valuations audit tender accountaBility External auditors and non-audit work This year, Land Securities put its audit out to The Audit Committee had policies and tender.
In addition to this being good practice procedures in place to monitor and maintain and satisfying new governance requirements, the objectivity and independence of the the tender enabled us to determine whether external auditors, PwC.
The policy requires other firms offered a different approach to the prior approval by the Chairman of the Audit audit.
A Selection Panel was set up comprising Committee of non-audit work above a fide Kevin OByrne, David Rough, Martin Greenslade, minimis threshold level of 25,000.
Alison Carnwath, and Despina Don-Wauchope, During the year the auditors undertook the the Group Financial Controller.
audit committee meetings following non-audit work, none of which A number of firms were approached to tender The Committees primary function is to assist exceeded the non-audit work threshold level: for the audit.
The list was based upon their the Board in fulfilling its financial oversight providing a comfort letter on the annual experience, industry skills and knowledge, their responsibilities.
Meetings of the Audit update of the Groups debt prospectus ability to perform the audit to a high standard and Committee were also attended by the any pre-existing business relationships that might reviewing agreed procedures in relation Chairman of the Board, Executive Directors affect their independence.
Three firms submitted to non-statutory financial statements of and the Groups General Counsel and tenders and were shortlisted.
Each was given Thomas More Square Estate Company Secretary, who acts as Secretary to access to Directors and Management, including the Committee.
In addition, the Director of reviewing agreed procedures in relation meetings with Robert Noel, Martin Greenslade Risk Management and Internal Audit and to the ground rent schedules provided to and Kevin OByrne, before presenting to the representatives from the Groups auditors The Crown Estate for the Exeter properties Selection Panel and Senior Management.
during the year,  LLP reviewing the net rent schedule provided to The Selection Panel recommended to the Audit PwC, were present at each meeting.
The Cardiff City Council for the properties at Committee and Board that Ernst & Young LLP Groups external valuers, Knight Frank LLP, St Davids be selected as the new auditors.
also attended the meetings after the half year non-statutory reporting on the consolidated and full year valuations to present their reports.
financial statements of LS Intermediate All of the Board were invited to attend the Limited Valuers meeting which reviewed our full year results.
The Audit Committee has policies and extraction procedures on the ground rent procedures in place to monitor the objectivity and service charge certificates.
audit committee agenda of the Groups independent external valuers, The Committee met four times.
Its agenda The ratio of fees for non-audit work to audit Knight Frank LLP.
The work of Knight Frank included reviewing: services was 1:6.
The ratio reflects the is particularly important since the valuations relatively straightforward nature of the Group the final and interim financial statements and of the Groups portfolio help determine a very statutory audit.
matters raised by management and the external significant part of the Groups reported and internal auditors performance and Senior Management Due to familiarity with the subject matter and remuneration.
alignment with work carried out under the the effectiveness of the Groups system of audit, these services were provided by PwC.
internal controls and risk management The significance of the valuation work is In order to maintain PwCs independence reflected in the sophistication of our controls the Top 10 risks for the whole Group and and objectivity, PwC undertook its standard and evaluation procedures.
Watch List of emerging risks independence procedures in relation to those updates on people risk, cybersecurity and The external valuers and external auditors have engagements.
Further details on the amounts Scottish devolution full access to one another.
They communicate of non-audit work paid to PwC are set out in freely with each other, and exchange the results of internal audit reviews, note 7 to the financial statements.
These were information independently of the Group.
management action plans to resolve any issues reported to and considered by the Audit arising and the tracking of their resolution Committee.
During the year, the Audit Committee the external auditors, their effectiveness, Chairman, Kevin OByrne, attended key The Committee also appraised the effectiveness objectivity and independence, and the terms valuation meetings to be assured of the of PwC, and also assessed their independence.
of engagement and the scope of the audit independence and rigour of the process.
The Committee concluded that PwC remained audit plans for external and internal audits In addition, Knight Frank presented its independent.
Furthermore, PwC confirmed to valuation findings to the Audit Committee the Committee that it maintained appropriate policy on the provision of non-audit services by at the interim and full year review of results.
internal safeguards to ensure its independence the external auditor and objectivity.
We have a fixed fee arrangement with our performance of the Companys auditors and the principal valuers Knight Frank.
Given the external valuers During the year, the Audit Committee importance of the work undertaken by held a private meeting with PwC, without the full and half year valuations and the external Knight Frank, we have disclosed the fees management being present, in order to valuation process: and we pay them in note 8 to the financial receive feedback from them on matters the Groups policies for preventing fraud and statements.
such as the quality of interaction with bribery, its employee code of conduct and its management.
The Chairman of the The total fees paid by the Company to Knight business ethics and anti-corruption policy.
Committee also met with PwC separately Frank in the year represented less than 5% on several occasions.
of its total fee income for the year.
In conjunction with the Board evaluation outlined on page 65, the Committee evaluation concluded that it remained an effective Audit Committee.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 69 GOVERNANCE Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results and remuneration of Senior Management, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial statements.
The main areas of focus during the year are set out below: taBle 48 Matter considered Action Valuation of the investment property portfolio The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and outcomes of the Although conducted externally by independent valuers, the valuation of the valuation.
The valuers presented their valuation at the half and full year investment property portfolio is inherently subjective, requiring significant results meetings.
The valuers proposed significant increases in the values judgement.
The outcome is significant for the Group in terms of its investment of our completed developments, which were discussed by the Committee in decisions, results and remuneration.
detail and accepted on a case-by-case basis.
The valuers were also asked to highlight any significant judgements and any significant disagreements with management.
The objectivity of the independent external valuers, Knight Frank LLP, was also monitored by the Committee and more information on this can be found on page 69.
Bankside The Committee reviewed a recommendation from management on the amount In December 2005, the Group sold land on Londons South Bank to a residential of profit to be recognised, taking into account the likelihood of the flats selling, property developer in return for an upfront payment and a share of any their likely selling prices and the timing of sales.
Scenarios produced by development profit.
As the development has now been completed and the vast management were considered by the external auditors and debated with the majority of flats sold, the Group is required to consider how much of the profit it Committee.
The Audit Committee supported managements judgement to should recognise.
recognise profit of 15.4m, which it was felt was prudent at this stage of the sales process.
X-Leisure The Audit Committee reviewed a paper presented by management, on which The Group acquired a further 41.8% holding in the X-Leisure Unit Trust the external auditors had commented.
The paper described the transaction, X-Leisure in January 2013 and an additional 5.6% investment in the accounting standards and any options in terms of how the acquisition March 2013, taking the Groups total holding in X-Leisure to 59.4%.
The subsequent discussion, which involved our external result of the transactions, the Group acquired control of X-Leisure and the auditors, explored the proposed accounting treatment, how it would differ Committee considered how it would be accounted for, going forward.
The from our joint ventures and whether the disclosures within our financial matter was made more complex as X-Leisure is a fund, with a number of statements would enable our investors to properly consider the performance obligations to other investors.
The Audit Committee was satisfied by the accounting treatment proposed by management.
For more information, please see note 29.
Further details on significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates can be found in note 3 to the financial statements on pages 104 to 105.
70 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE case study: development in victoria Financial risk control measures Risk management The scale of regeneration we are We have clear risk control measures limiting the Development risks relating to our London properties, undertaking in SW1 means the amount of development we can undertake at any such as those in Nova Victoria, are discussed at the proportion of development in our time.
We use a number of measures to assess the London Executive Committee meetings.
The risk portfolio is increasing rapidly.
We appropriate level of development.
These include: management process captures development risks, which are recorded on a Group risk register.
The believe that development activity ensuring that the total proportion of capital register is monitored by our London Executive employed in our development programme will will provide better returns for our Committee, our Senior Management Board, the generally not exceed 20% of our capital employed shareholders, albeit at a higher risk.
Audit Committee and the Board.
Experts in the avoiding having an uncovered dividend, by ensuring So what risk control measures are business are invited to attend Audit Committee that the income impact from the un-let element of meetings to provide an update on how the risks are in place to mitigate the risks facing our development programme does not exceed the being managed.
As an additional measure, on our development at Nova Victoria?
Groups retained earnings Nova Victoria we have entered into a 50 50 joint monitoring the relationship between contractual venture with the Canada Pension Plan Investment commitments and undrawn cash facilities to Board to share the financial exposure for what is ensure we have sufficient cash available to fund a very significant development.
Construction There is a risk that we will not be able to let space in the The project will take many years to complete and there The development involves significant demolition development or sell the apartments we are creating.
is a risk that the main contractor will not be able to and complex mixed-use construction over London The risk is mitigated by monitoring the market cycle complete it on budget or at all.
This may occur for a Underground tube lines and an overflow sewer on a and likely tenant purchaser demand before committing number of reasons including: financial difficulty, a lack large site in the centre of one of the busiest areas of to new developments and delivering the development of expertise or ability to deal with the scale of the works.
In order to manage the risk, our project team in stages to spread supply.
In addition, during the To mitigate this risk, we evaluated leading contractors worked with some of the worlds leading consultants to development, the leasing and sales teams constantly from across London and invited the most appropriate assess the different construction issues and create work monitor tenant purchaser demand and supply in the to tender for the work.
They were asked to provide streams to efficiently mitigate them.
immediate and wider London areas.
Responsibility details of their experience with projects of this scale, A fixed price Design and Build construction contract for these measures has been allocated to specific their proposed team and construction methodology, was placed which transferred responsibility for a Senior Managers.
detailed company financial information, relevant number of the key risks to the main contractor.
The guarantees and a fixed lump sum price for the works.
contractors are experts in their field and their work Only once we were satisfied with their ability to will be monitored carefully during the works, with complete the project on budget and programme was contingency plans in place to deal with issues that the successful bidder appointed.
The main contractors might arise.
financial position and work will be monitored carefully throughout the project.
Health and Safety The construction and subsequent occupation of The risk is that project costs and timings overrun.
The risk here is that an accident occurs during Nova Victoria by tenants and residents will create Thorough planning including design development, demolition or construction.
To mitigate this risk we a significant increase in demand for utility services cost analysis and an evaluation of proposed set industry leading health and safety standards for in the area, particularly electricity, with the risk of construction methods are undertaken with the our contractors to comply with.
In addition, we have providers not being able to meet that demand.
We contractor to ensure both parties are aligned when an on-going health and safety programme with have worked closely with UK Power Networks and the fixed price construction contract is placed.
The a dedicated in-house health and safety team that other utility suppliers to ensure that likely demand costs and programme are regularly monitored undertake regular audits at all stages of the is satisfied.
A new sub-station is under construction throughout the project to ensure the development development and advise on health and safety matters.
in Victoria Street which will supply consistent high is delivered on time and budget.
voltage connections to Nova Victoria and future developments in the area.
Land Securities Annual Report 2013 71 GOVERNANCE internal controls and risk risk management process chart 49 management The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
This has been Identify designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of any failure to meet business Reports risks and objectives.
It can only provide reasonable Assess mitigation to and quantify assurance not absolute assurance against the Board material misstatement or loss.
The Boards approach to risk management is supported by an oversight structure which includes the Audit Committee.
Re-assess risk Develop action plans The Board has an on-going process to post mitigation to mitigate identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group.
This was in place throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Risk management reviewing the reports from the Risk Board, and accords with the 2005 Turnbull The Groups risk management process is Management and Internal Audit team on guidance.
In addition, the Board reviews embedded throughout the organisation.
any issues identified in the course of their annually the effectiveness of the risk It can be summarised as follows: work.
The Director of Risk Management management and internal control systems.
and Internal Audit met regularly with 1.
Identify Senior Management and attended all System of risk management Risks are identified for each area of the meetings of the Audit Committee and internal control business and the Group as a whole.
This system includes: reviewing annually the Groups system of 2.
Assess and quantify internal control.
Strategic and business planning Each risk is rated in terms of probability of of key controls, a report from the internal a five year forecast prepared and reviewed occurrence and potential impact on financial audit team on their work and the results by the Board annually.
performance and the reputation of the Group.
Develop action plans to mitigate questionnaires provided assurances from significant capital projects, major contracts The Risk Management and Internal Audit Senior Management that business activities and business and property acquisitions team assists the business in developing action had been conducted appropriately reviewed in detail by several Committees plans to mitigate risk and review and test key reviewing the effectiveness of the internal approvals made in accordance with a formal business processes and controls, including audit function schedule of reserved matters following up with the implementation of monitoring the risks and associated controls management actions to the Audit Committee.
over the financial reporting processes, including the process by which the Groups 4.
Financial monitoring financial statements are prepared for Risks are continually re-assessed to ensure profitability, cash flow and capital publication that mitigation strategies have been effective.
expenditure closely monitored reviewing reports from the external key historic and forecast financial information 5.
Report risks and mitigation to the Board auditors on any issues identified in the reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Risks are reviewed with the Executive course of their work, including an internal Directors and the Audit Committee and then 4.
Systems of control, procedures control report on control weaknesses.
and delegated authorities From the review of the risk management and clearly defined guidelines and approval Assurance internal control system, the Board confirms limits exist for capital and operating The Audit Committee and the Board reviewed that no significant failings or weaknesses have expenditure and other key business the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk been identified.
transactions management and internal control including financial, operational and compliance Whistleblowing financial reporting controls identifying and controls.
This was primarily achieved by: The Audit Committee also oversees a addressing key financial reporting risks third-party run whistleblowing facility including risks arising from changes in reviewing key controls on a quarterly basis to enable employees to raise issues on accounting standards, as well as any areas to ensure they were embedded and a confidential basis.
The Audit Committee of accounting judgement.
operating effectively within the business ensures that independent investigation of any whistleblowing incidents is undertaken.
72 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE GOVERNANCE Industry conferences annual general meeting agm relations with industry conferences provide Executive The AGM provided all shareholders with an Directors with a chance to meet a large opportunity to question the Board and the investors number of investors on a formal and Chairmen of the Board Committees on informal basis.
Conferences that were matters put to the meeting, including the attended by Executive Directors included Annual Report.
Shareholders who attended the UBS Global Property conference in the AGM were given a detailed presentation London, Citi CEO conference in Florida, by the Chief Executive on the activities and Merrill Lynch conference in New York, and performance of the Group over the the Kempen conference in Amsterdam, preceding year.
Approach to Investor Relations The results of voting at general meetings The Company has a comprehensive Other initiatives are published on the Companys website, Investor Relations programme which the Chairman and Chief Executive held a www.
com investors aims to assist existing and potential dinner for the senior heads of equity from  AGMinvestors understand the Group.
UK institutions  The Investor Relations programme is digital communication with investors was independent FeedBack arranged between institutional investors, developed further this year with investors on investor relations private shareholders and debt investors.
offered live streaming of the results The Board received independent feedback Shareholder feedback is provided to the presentations.
on Investor Relations through a biennial Board to ensure that they understand the presentation by Makinson Cowell, an views of major investors.
During the year, private shareholders programme independent adviser.
Makinson Cowell the programme of investor events included: Private shareholders are encouraged to give undertook its comprehensive Investor feedback to and communicate with the Relations audit last year, so this year their institutional shareholders programme Directors through the Company Secretary.
recommendations continued to be Meetings with principal shareholders During the year they were also able to meet implemented.
meetings with Directors and the Chairman Directors at the United Kingdom were offered throughout the year Shareholders Association UKSA meeting, The Investor Relations department also held annually at our head office, and at the the Chairman, particularly with regard to received feedback from analysts and investors Annual General Meeting.
the new remuneration policy, maintained during the year through the Groups contact with principal shareholders and corporate advisers.
The information was deBt investors programme kept the Board informed of their views shared with the Board to help members Credit side institutional investors develop their understanding of shareholders as well as Non-executive Directors, the and analysts needs and expectations.
Senior Independent Director was available meetings were held with our Chief Financial to meet with shareholders Other disclosures Officer and our Treasury team after the the Investor Relations programme Other disclosures required by paragraph annual and half year results.
continued in Europe, North America and 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Banks the Far East.
Rules and the Companies Act 2006 are set there was regular dialogue with our key out in the Report of the Directors on Roadshows relationship banks including quarterly page 92. institutional shareholders were invited to meetings with our Treasury team and annual and half yearly results meetings.
in-house dinners with Executive and Non-executive Directors Investor conference the Investor conference is held annually and our Treasury team also actively engaged focuses on the Retail and London Portfolios with potential lenders.
Typically, the team in alternate years.
This year, the Conference will look up to three years ahead when was held in London and focused on the developing new relationships.
As well as updates on Credit rating agencies market conditions and our business, there during the year meetings were held by our were property tours of 20 Fenchurch Street, Treasury team and Senior Management EC3, and Nova Victoria, SW1.
It also with both Standard & Poors and Fitch provided an opportunity for attendees to Ratings.
As a result of a ratings event, meet management below Executive conference calls were also held with Director level principal institutional investors.
the presentations and an audiocast or Further information on our debt investors webcast of the conference were made can be found at www.
com available on the corporate website to enable investors debt-investors.
those investors who could not attend to access the information provided at the conference.
