Governance Audit Committee report Humphrey Price Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committees focus has been to assist the Board t met with the independent property valuers to discuss the byreviewing financial information provided to shareholders year-end portfolio valuation on a property by property basis.
including interim and annual financial statements, reviewing t assessed the effectiveness of the external auditor which and assessing the effectiveness of the Companys internal included reviewing their independence, objectivity, terms controls and risk management systems and overseeing ofengagement and the scope of their audit, as well as their theCompanys relationship with its external auditor.
The Committee considered the length of tenure of BDO LLP, being Group auditor for the last six years and the Membership fact that last year there was a rotation of audit partner to further their independence.
Humphrey Price is Chairman of the Audit Committee and together with Charles Cayzer and Mark Burton has served t considered and reviewed the level of non-audit fees and the asamember of the Committee throughout the year.
Andrew nature of non-audit services provided before recommending Varley and Alec Pelmore joined the Committee in January their reappointment.
The Committee is satisfied that the level 2013 on their appointment to the Board.
All members have of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors in the year noday to day involvement with theCompany.
Humphrey 356,000 did not put their independence and objectivity Pricebrings recent and relevant financial experience to atrisk.
It took into account the fact that taxation services and theCommittee as a former Finance Director, chartered advice is provided separately by  accountant and Non-Executive Director and Chairman and that a significant portion of the non-audit fees 305,000 oftheAudit Committee of Hansteen Holdings Plc were an exceptional cost of the merger with Metric and will not recur.
Mark Burton has informed the Committee that he will be retiring The Companys policy governing the provision of non-audit from the Board and Committee at the forthcoming AGM.
services considers each appointment on a case by case basis.
Taxation, valuation and remuneration services are Meetings provided by other professions but due diligence, VAT and The Committee met three times last year, with meetings other advisory services can and have been undertaken by aligned to the Companys financial reporting timetable.
The Executive Directors can authorise Meetings areattended by the Groups external auditor, anengagement up to a fee limit of 100,000, above which independent property valuers CBRE Ltd and Savills Advisory the engagement is referred to the Audit Committee for Services Limited, the Finance Director and senior management review and approval.
BDO LLP has confirmed to the Audit when invited.
Time isallocated for the Committee to meet the Committee that they remain independent and have external auditor without management present.
In addition, the maintained internal safeguards to ensure the objectivity Chairman has separate andad hoc meetings with the audit ofthe engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
There has been afocus on the valuation process for t considered the need for an internal audit function and the Groups investment properties, as they are a significant part concluded it was unnecessary at present given the size and ofthe Groups reported performance.
The Committee met complexity of the business but agreed to keep the matter withthe external valuers to assess the integrity of the valuation under regular review.
process and todetermine the key areas of judgement t reviewed the Groups internal controls and risk management surrounding the valuations themselves.
The external auditor and systems and whistle-blowing arrangements.
A detailed external valuer also meet as part of the year-end process and internal control evaluation questionnaire was completed have full access to one another and an open dialogue and bymanagement which was reviewed by the Committee exchange of information that is independent of management.
along with the risk register, which identied key risks and themanagement and operational framework in place to Activities address, monitor and minimise the key risks.
The Committee During the year the work of the Committee undertaken received an annual update and review of the risk register todischarge its responsibilities to the Board has included and control evaluation questionnaire and reported their thefollowing: findings to the Board.
t considered proposed accounting treatments for major transactions and significant reporting judgements in advance of interim and annual results at audit planning meetings.
Humphrey Price t reviewed interim and annual financial statements including Chairman of the Audit Committee consideration of key areas of judgement, compliance 31 May 2013 withstatutory obligations and accounting standards andconsistency throughout the report.
50 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013
