Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards All four of Metrics Non-Executive Directors were appointed ofcorporate governance which it considers underpins tothe Non-Executive Board and Richard Crowder decided toretire from his role.
Andrew Huntley has informed the Board thedelivery of its strategic objectives and the successful management of the business.
that he does not intend to stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of theCompany and The Board has considered the Companys compliance with Mark Burton has decided to retire.
themain principles and provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code and the revisions made in 2012 and has There are clearly-dened roles for the Executive Chairman sought to put in place practices to enable full compliance.
andChief Executive which have been approved by the Board.
TheBoard considers that the Company has complied with The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except monitoring its effectiveness and the Chief Executive is forProvision B1.1 which addresses the independence of responsible for the day to day management of the Group Non-Executive Directors, Provision A.
3.1 which addresses the anddelivery of its strategic objectives.
independence of the Chairman and Provision B.
7.1 which Attendance at Board meetings addresses re-election of Directors.
The Board has a regular schedule of meetings together with The Companys principal governance policies and practices further ad hoc meetings as required to deal with transactional are set out below.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate directly with the Executive Directors and senior The Board of Directors management between scheduled Board meetings, as part of each Directors contribution to the delivery of the Companys Composition strategy and the delivery of enhanced shareholder returns.
The The Board comprises the Executive Chairman, two other following table shows Directors attendance at Board meetings Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors.
they were eligible to attend during the period: Thebiographies of all members of the Board are set out onpages40 to 41.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee The composition of the Board changed on 25 January 2013 Number of meetings 83 31 following the merger of the Company with Metric Property 1 Investments plc Metric.
Raymond Mould retired as Raymond Mould 3 4n a n an a Chairman and Patrick Vaughan was appointed to undertake Patrick Vaughan 8 8 n a n a 1 1 the role in an executive capacity.
Andrew Jones was 2 appointed as Chief Executive.
Although this does not Andrew Jones 4 4 n a n a n a complywith Provision A.
3.1, which discourages a chief Martin McGann 8 8 n a n a n a executive becoming chairman of the same company, Charles Cayzer 8 8 3 3 3 3 1 1 theBoard considers this appointment as an appropriate exception to the rule and a critical element of the merger, 4 James Dean 7 8 n a 3 3 0 1 maintaining continuity of leadership for both companies and Humphrey Price 7 8 3 3 n a n a inorder to facilitate the combination of the two businesses 3 given his excellent prior working relationship with the Chief Mark Burton 8 8 3 3 3 3 1 1 Executive of Metric, Andrew Jones.
His experience as a founder 1 Richard Crowder 3 4 1 2 2 3 n a of London & Stamford and his relationship with key joint venture 2, 5 Andrew Huntley 3 4n a n an a partners is considered to be crucial to maintaining their continued support and to providing shareholders with a 2, 6 Andrew Varley 4 4 1 1 n a n a balanced and effective Board.
Leading shareholders of both 2 Alec Pelmore 3 4 1 1 n a n a former companies were consulted and the reasons for his 2 appointment explained to them.
Philip Watson 4 4 n a n a n a Patrick Vaughan will retain his executive capacity representing acommitment given to the shareholders on the acquisition ofLSIManagement LLP.
1 Stepped down from the Board on 25 January 2013.
Any non-attendance was the result of ill-health 2 Appointed to the Board and relevant committees on 25 January 2013 3 Stepped down from Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 25 January 2013 4 Stepped down from Nomination Committee on 25 January 2013 5 Stepped down from Remuneration Committee on 3 May 2013 6 Appointed to Remuneration Committee on 30 May 2013 Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 45 Governance Corporate governance continued All Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board The Board receives comprehensive reports and brieng papers and of the Committees on which they serve, and to devote one week prior to Board and Committee meetings to enable them to full their responsibilities.
sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to full their duties as Directors.
Where Directors are unable to attend Presentations on current and prospective property portfolios meetings, their comments are provided to the Board prior are made regularly to the Board by senior management and tothe meeting.
property visits are regularly arranged.
Board activities All Directors have access at all times to the advice and services The Board is collectively responsible to the shareholders of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that forthestrategy, control and effective leadership of the Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and Group.
TheExecutive Directors are responsible for the governance regulations are complied with.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for ensuring strategies proposed The Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, bythe Executive Board are fully considered and for bringing takeindependent professional advice at the expense independent judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken.
Thereis a formal schedule of matters reserved for the The commitments of each Director outside of the Company Boardsapproval, including: are kept under review by the Board to ensure that sufficient t approval of interim and annual financial statements timeis available to enable them to discharge their anddividends: responsibilities effectively.
t setting and monitoring of overall strategy: Taking all factors into account, the Directors believe that t ensuring there are adequate resources to meet objectives: theBoard has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, t reviewing property valuations: knowledge and independence to satisfy the requirements t acquisitions and disposals: ofgood corporate governance.
t approval of major capital expenditure projects: Re-election of Directors t treasury and nancing arrangements: and In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, t internal control, risk management and Board evaluation.
allDirectors are required to submit themselves for election This schedule of matters is reviewed and agreed by the atthe first opportunity following their appointment by the Boardon an annual basis.
The Board delegates authority Boardand thereafter for re-election at least every three years.
toitscommittees to assist in meeting its business objectives Accordingly, Andrew Jones, Andrew Varley, Alec Pelmore andto maintain a sound system of internal control and andPhilip Watson are proposed for re-election at the riskmanagement.
Andrew Huntley has informed the Board that he does not intend to stand for The day to day running of the Group is delegated by the re-election at the AGM and Mark Burton has decided to retire.
Boardto the Executive Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and Valentine Beresford Head of Investments and The Board considers this departure from the requirements Mark Stirling Head of Asset Management, former Executive oftheUK Corporate Governance Code that all Directors are Directors of Metric.
submitted for re-election annually is necessary to ensure the effective and ongoing management of the business.
Continuity The Executive Committee meets monthly to discuss property of Board leadership is considered to be essential to the survival investment, development and asset management activities and success of the business and this provision would allow the and the operational management of the Group.
The Executive whole Board to be discharged simultaneously, leaving the Committee supports the Chief Executive in the delivery of company in a most vulnerable position with potentially no strategy, the achievement of financial and operating targets continuity of the required knowledge, skills and understanding and the assessment and management of business risks.
Theminutes of these meetings are made available to the Board.
There are informal meetings between the Executive Directors atother times and they are heavily involved in significant business discussions and decisions due to the size oftheorganisation.
46 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Non-Executive Directors Board performance and evaluation The Board is a diverse group, the majority of whom are At the end of the previous year, in March 2012, the Board undertook its first formal evaluation of its own performance independent.
Humphrey Price and Charles Cayzer do not qualify to be deemed independent using the criteria set out in andthat of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Board has therefore specically composition and leadership of the Board and its Committees considered their independence.
Humphrey Price has a long changed signicantly following the merger with Metric working relationship with the Executive Directors at Arlington inJanuary 2013, it was considered more appropriate to Securities, Pillar Property Plc and London & Stamford.
givethenew Board and Chairman sufficient time to settle intotheirnew roles before a subsequent self-evaluation The Board nevertheless considers that the knowledge and tookplace.
It is the Boards intention to carry out a further experience he brings, having been the Finance Director of evaluation later inthe year.
The process will be led by the these very successful listed property companies, and his ability Nomination Committee.
to act independently, make him a most qualied and appropriate Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the The process will require each Director to complete a AuditCommittee.
questionnaire based on the components of good governance focusing on the objectives, strategy and remit for the Board, Charles Cayzer is a Non-Executive Director of Caledonia performance measurement, relationships with shareholders, Investments Plc, ashareholder of the Company holding effectiveness of risk management and corporate reporting a5.33% interest as at30May 2013.
Caledonia Investments andthe effectiveness of the Board, individual Directors and haveput in place procedures to ensure that Charles Cayzer Committees.
In addition, it will consider the balance of skills, does not participate ininvestment decision making procedures independence, knowledge and diversity of the Board and relating to the Company to address this potential conict howit works together as a unit.
andCharlesCayzer himself is not a shareholder in the Consideration will be given to the external facilitation of this Company.
The Board does not believe Charles Cayzers independence is compromised by hisposition and is satisfied process every three years.
that he is able tocarry out his function as Senior Independent Board Committees Director effectively.
The Non-Executive Directors, chaired The Board has three Committees, the Audit, Remuneration bytheSenior Independent Director, Charles Cayzer, have andNomination Committees, each having written terms of metseparately from the Board and will continue to meet as reference which are reviewed annually by the Board and necessary, but atleast annually, without the Executive Directors which are available on written request and on the Companys present toaddress any matterswhich they may wish to raise website: www.
and to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The outcome ofthese discussions is conveyed to the Chairman The Audit and Remuneration Committees are composed bythe Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent entirely of Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary Director actsasan intermediary to the Executive Directors for issecretary to each Committee.
The Chairman of each the Non-Executive Directors and shareholders as required.
Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board.
Positions held by the Non-Executive Directors are set out in their biographies on pages 40 and 41.
The Board is satisfied that each ofthe Non-Executive Directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
On appointment they are advised of the time required to full the role and are asked toconrm that they can make the required commitment.
On their appointment, Non-Executive Directors are provided with a comprehensive Board pack and are briefed on the Groups assets, nances, risks and strategy.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 47 Governance Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee Audit Committee The Board established a Nomination Committee in November The Audit Committee is chaired by Humphrey Price and its current membership is set out on pages 40 and 41.
The Committee is chaired by Charles Cayzer and its current membership is set out on pages 40 and 41.
The BDO LLP has confirmed to the Audit Committee that they Committee is responsible for reviewing the size, structure and remain independent and have maintained internal safeguards composition of the Board, including diversity and the balance to ensure the objectivity of the engagement partner and audit of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
It also considers staff is not impaired.
succession planning for Directors and other senior executive positions, andreviews the leadership needs of the Company The Audit Committees role is described further in its report and is responsible for identifying and approving candidates to onpage 50. ll Board vacancies.
If appropriate, external search consultants The Audit Committee met three times last year.
are used to assist the process.
The Committee met once in theyear, to consider the appointment of Andrew Jones Remuneration Committee asChief Executive, Patrick Vaughan as Chairman and The Remuneration Committee is chaired by James Dean AndrewHuntley, Andrew Varley, Alec Pelmore and Philip andits current membership is set out on pages 40 and 41.
Watson as Non-Executive Directors following the merger Its responsibilities include recommending to the Board the withMetric.
It met once post year end to consider changes remuneration and other benets of the Executive Directors tothe Remuneration Committee composition following the andother senior executives, and determining awards and notication of Andrew Huntleys intention not to stand for targets under share-based incentive schemes.
re-election at the forthcoming AGM and his resignation fromthe Remuneration Committee.
The Committee The Remuneration Committees role is described further considered the need to maintain the appropriate balance intheRemuneration report on pages 51 to 55. ofskills, experience and knowledge of both companies The Remuneration Committee met three times last year.
regarding these appointments and will review the balance ofthe Board on an annual basis.
It did notbelieve it was Relations with shareholders necessary to engage an external search agency in this process Communication with shareholders is given high priority and and was mindful of ensuring successful integration of the two theCompany undertakes a regular dialogue with major businesses.
Succession planning was akey consideration with shareholders and fund managers.
The Executive Directors are the appointment of Andrew Jones asChief Executive and the the Groups principal representatives with investors, analysts, retirement of Raymond Mould asChairman.
However, at the fund managers and other interested parties, assisted by the same time in order to maintain consistent and effective Companys brokers.
The Senior Independent Director is available leadership, the Committee felt it most appropriate to appoint for shareholders to contact if other channels of communication Patrick Vaughan as Chairman and inan Executive capacity, with the Company are not available or appropriate and met given his wealth of experience, knowledge and understanding anumber of significant shareholders during the year.
The Nomination Committee is conscious of the increased focus on Board diversity and acknowledges all aspects of diversity including gender, ethnic origin, age, business skills and experience throughout the Company.
Within the Company there is significant gender diversity with the male:female ratio ofstaff excluding the Non-Executive Directors being 17:18.
48 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Following the announcement of interim and year-end Internal controls results, the Executive Directors host a series of roadshows The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and risk management and andpresentations with shareholders and investors.
Meetings are arranged as requested with at least the top twenty for reviewing its effectiveness at least annually.
Ad hoc meetings are held The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk outside of the roadshow process at the request of shareholders of failure to achieve the Groups objectives.
The system can or on the advice of the Companys brokers.
During the last six only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against months alone more than fty material shareholders of the material misstatement or loss.
Group have been visited by two or more of the Executive Directors.
The Board receives reports of meetings with The main elements of the internal control framework are: institutional shareholders together with regular market t a dened schedule of matters reserved for the Boards andbrokers reports.
attention: t a comprehensive and documented system of financial The Companys website has been updated following the budgeting and forecasting: merger to provide a more functional source of information t measurement of the Groups quarterly financial forshareholders and the presentations made to analysts performance against budget and long-term financial plans: following the announcement of the Groups results are made available on the website.
t short-term cashow forecasting that is updated, reviewed and considered weekly in light of investment and Shareholders are kept informed of the Companys progress development opportunities: though results statements and other announcements t a formal whistle-blowing policy: releasedthrough the London Stock Exchange.
Company t a management structure with clearly dened roles announcements are made available on our website affording andresponsibilities that enables effective and efficient all shareholders full access to material information.
decision making: Shareholders can raise questions directly with the Company t close involvement of the Executive Directors in day to day orat any time through a facility on the website.
operations: The Executive Directors and Senior Independent Director are t monthly meetings of the Executive Committee, which available as a contact for shareholders and the whole Board assesses and monitors strategic and operational risk: attends and is available to answer shareholder questions at t the maintenance of a risk register and a financial reporting theCompanys Annual General Meeting, which provides a procedures memorandum, both of which identify key forum for communication with both private and institutional financial and other internal controls: and shareholders alike.
Full interim and annual reports are sent t a documented appraisal and approval process for toallshareholders and details of the resolutions to be proposed allsignicant capital expenditure.
atthe Annual General Meeting on 10 July 2013 can be found The Groups internal control processes accord with the inthe Notice of Meeting on pages 86 to 93.
number ofproxy votes for, against and withheld for each resolution willbe disclosed at the meeting and posted to Report and Accounts theCompanyswebsite.
The Board has considered the Groups report and accounts and, taking into account the recommendation of the Audit Committee, is satisfied that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information for the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Jadzia Duzniak Company Secretary 31 May 2013 Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 49
