48 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance Governance and Directors Report The table shows the number of meetings attended out of the number Remuneration Committee of meetings which each Director was eligible to attend.
Directors who The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making are not members of individual Board committees have also been invited recommendations on remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive to attend one or more meetings of those committees during the year.
Directors and senior management to the Board.
There was one occasion where a Director was unable to attend The Remuneration Committee comprises Sir Ian Robinson Chairman a meeting as a result of a long standing commitment.
and all of the other Non-Executive Directors in office at the date of this Report.
James Crosby was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee until his retirement on 9 April 2013.
The Remuneration Committee met The Nomination Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board four times during the year and Directors attendance can be found in comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and the table on page 47. experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 55 to 70 and The Nomination Committee comprises Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, details the Remuneration Committees activities during the year and the Richard Cousins and all of the Non-Executive Directors in office at the policy on remuneration.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee date of this Report.
James Crosby was a member of the Nomination attends the AGM to respond to any Shareholder questions that might Committee until 9 April 2013. be raised on the Remuneration Committees activities.
The Nomination Committee meets on an as needed basis.
The General Business Committee Committee met twice during the year and members attendance is set out in the table on page 47.
The General Business Committee comprises all of the Executive Directors and meets as required to conduct the Companys business The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition within clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to those of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations with matters reserved to the Board.
regard to any changes considered necessary in the identification and nomination of new Directors, the reappointment of existing Directors Corporate Responsibility Committee and appointment of members to the Boards committees.
It also The Corporate Responsibility Committees primary responsibilities assesses the roles of the existing Directors in office to ensure that include health, safety and environmental practices, ethical business there continues to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge, conduct, the promotion of employee engagement and diversity and experience and diversity.
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior community investment.
leadership needs of the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committee also advises the Board The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises Susan Murray on succession planning for Executive Director appointments although Chairman, Sir Roy Gardner, Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins, the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
Mark White General Counsel and Company Secretary, Jane Kingston Group human Resources Director and all of the Non-Executive The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure Directors in office at the date of this Report.
The Corporate Responsibility for the appointment of new Directors and Senior Executives with due Committee met three times during the year and the Director members regard to diversity and gender.
Prior to making an appointment, the attendance is shown in the table on page 47.
Our Corporate Responsibility Nomination Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, Report 2013 is available at www.
com cr13 as well as independence, experience and diversity on the Board and, in the light on pages 20 to 25 of this Report.
of this evaluation, will prepare a description of the role and capabilities required, with a view to appointing the best placed individual for the role.
Disclosure Committee In identifying suitable candidates, the Nomination Committee: The Disclosure Committee ensures accuracy and timeliness of public announcements of the Company and monitors the Companys uses open advertising or the services of external advisors to facilitate obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency the search Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
considers candidates from different genders and a wide range of backgrounds Meetings are held as required.
At the date of this Report the Disclosure considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria ensuring Committee comprises Dominic Blakemore, Mark White, the head of that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the position, in light Financial Reporting and Control and the Director of Corporate Affairs.
of other significant commitments Executive Board During the year the Nomination Committee retained Egon Zehnder International as recruitment consultants in respect of the search for a The Executive Board is the key management committee for the Group and comprises the Executive Directors of the Company, suitable candidate for the Chairmanship.
Egon Zehnder International is an independent executive search firm which has no other connection Andrew Furlong Regional Managing Director, Central Asia, Middle East, Africa & Turkey, Philippe Op fide Beeck Regional Managing Director, with the Company.
Paul Walsh was identified by the Nomination Committee as part of the external search process conducted by Egon Asia Pacific, Mark White and Jane Kingston.
Zehnder International and was subsequently recommended to the The Executive Board meets regularly and is responsible for developing Board for appointment on the basis that he met the criteria required, the Groups strategy and capital expenditure and investment budgets including having sufficient time to discharge the requirements of the and reporting on these areas to the Board for approval, implementing role.
During the year the Nomination Committee also considered and Group policy, monitoring financial, operational and customer quality of recommended to the Board the reappointments of Susan Murray and service performance, health and safety, purchasing and supply chain Sir Ian Robinson, each for a further term, and the appointment of Sir Ian issues, succession planning and day to day management of the Group.
as Senior Independent Director following James Crosbys retirement.
In the year ahead, the Nomination Committee will continue to assess the Boards composition and how it may be enhanced and will consider diversity gender and experience and geographic representation and use independent consultants as appropriate to ensure a broad search for suitable candidates.
