46 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance Governance and Directors Report The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc Corporate Governance Report basis, as required by business need.
The Board met eight times during The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited the year and Director attendance for each meeting is shown in the consolidated accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the table on page 47.
Each Director also attends the AGM to answer year ended 30 September 2013.
This Corporate Governance Report Shareholder questions.
and other statutory disclosures set out on pages 46 to 54 make up the Directors Report.
Responsibilities The Board manages the business of the Company and may, subject UK Corporate Governance Code compliance to the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, property and Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The Board is assets present and future and issue debentures and other securities accountable to Shareholders and is committed to the highest standards and give security, whether outright or as a collateral security, for any of corporate governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, Council website at www.
This Corporate Governance Report, although its primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and together with the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 55 to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
to 70, describes how the Board has applied the main principles of good In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards and governance set out in the Code during the year under review.
ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its Shareholders Compliance statement are understood and met.
The Board may delegate any of its powers to any committee consisting of one or more Directors.
It is the Boards view that for the year ended 30 September 2013 the Company has been fully compliant with all of the principles set out in The Board has delegated day to day operational decisions to the the Code.
The Companys Auditor, Deloitte LLP, is required to review Executive Board referred to on page 48. whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed the provisions of the Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Every Director also has compliance.
No such report has been made.
access to the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board procedures are followed and How we govern the Company that good corporate governance and compliance are implemented Our governance structure comprises the functions shown below, throughout the Group.
Together with the Group Chief Executive and supported by the Groups standards, policies and controls, which the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures are described over the following pages in more detail.
that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers and other information are distributed at ChAIRMAN times to allow Directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors have been granted an indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their BOARD office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage where a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action CORPORATE AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION against its Directors and Officers.
RESPONSIBILITy COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing GENERAL and agreed by the Board.
DISCLOSURE BUSINESS COMMITTEE ExECUTIvE COMMITTEE Director effectiveness and training BOARD In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to further developing its effectiveness as a team, and ensures that each Director The Board refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge Composition and expertise.
As at 30 September 2013, and as at the date of this Report, the Board of Directors was made up of nine members, comprising the Chairman, Meetings between the Non-Executive Directors, both with and without four Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
James the presence of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled in the Crosby stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 9 April 2013.
Board meetings are also held at Group On 20 June 2013 it was announced that, following Sir Roy Gardners business locations to help all Board members to gain a deeper retirement after the Annual General Meeting AGM on 6 February understanding of the business.
This also provides senior managers 2014, Paul Walsh will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director on from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board 1 January 2014 and succeed Sir Roy as Chairman at the conclusion as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board, rather than for a All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one third independent of management and free of any relationship which could of the Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director will materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
seek re-election at the AGM every three years.
however, in accordance The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors brings with the Code, all Directors submit themselves for annual re-election by their own senior level of experience, gained in each of their own fields, Shareholders.
New Directors may be appointed by the Board, but are mainly in international operations.
subject to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment as is the case with Paul Walsh who will seek election at the Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown AGM on 6 February 2014.
The Articles of Association limit the number on pages 8 and 9.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of Directors to not less than two and not more than 20 save where of appointment and the remuneration of both Executive and NonShareholders decide otherwise.
Non-Executive Directors are normally Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report appointed for an initial term of three years which is reviewed and may be which is on pages 55 to 70.
