Corporate Governance report Letter from the Chairman of the Company Dear Shareholder Board Committees Commitment to Corporate Governance The Board of Computacenter believes that long-term shareholder value creation is supported by high-quality Board governance.
It is therefore committed to the principles of good governance and supports the best practice guidelines contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code, as amended in September 2012 the Code.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and can be found at www.
Audit Remuneration Nomination This Corporate Governance report outlines and explains the Committee Committee Committee Companys governance policies and practices, and sets out how the principles of the Code have been applied during the year ended 31 December 2013.
I am able to confirm to you that, except where indicated and fully explained within this report, the Company has complied with each of the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
We have additionally, for ease of reference, prepared a separate report by reference to each of the Main Principles and separate provisions of the Code explaining how the Company has complied with each of these.
This report can be found at www.
Board Composition The changes made to the Board during 2013 have been Greg Lock referred to within the Nomination Committee report on page 55.
Non-Executive Chairman As previously announced by the Company during the period, we were pleased to welcome Regine Stachelhaus onto the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2013.
In line with the Companys procedure for new Directors, Ms. Stachelhaus received a full induction, which included meetings with the Chairman of the Board and its Committees, the CEO and CFO.
Additionally, Ian Lewis stepped down from his position as a Non-Executive Director in September 2013, following eight years of valuable service in that role.
The Board believes that long-term shareholder value creation is supported by high-quality governance.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 40 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Board Effectiveness Shareholder Engagement Since the publication of the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts, The Board remains committed to communicating with our an evaluation of the Board, its key Committees and each of the shareholders and, where appropriate, submitting its views Directors has been carried out by an external and independent and considerations for consultation and feedback.
Further provider, NJMD Corporate Services Limited NJMD.
details regarding this engagement with our shareholders Details of the full process carried out and the findings of the can be found on page 43 of this report.
evaluation can be found on page 43 of this report.
Following this evaluation, I am satisfied that the Board is functioning In accordance with the Code, all of the Directors will stand for effectively and that its current constitution and range of skills re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM, with are appropriate to ensure that the long-term interests of the the exception of Regine Stachelhaus, who will be standing Company and our shareholders are protected.
I also remain for election by shareholders for the first time, following her satisfied that the members of the Board, in particular the appointment to the Board in July 2013.
Non-Executive Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their roles at Board and Committee level as currently required by the Company.
However, I can assure you that in my role as Chairman of the Board, I will continue to assess both of these judgements to ensure that they remain the case on an ongoing basis.
Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman Board Visits As in previous years, the Board held a meeting at one of the 10 March 2014 Companys overseas operations.
In 2013, this was held in Berlin, Germany.
During the visit the Board discussed, with senior members of the in-country German management team, the progress made by the business following the implementation of Group Operating Model policies and procedures, and the associated strengthening of governance and internal controls within our German business at the beginning of the year.
Board members were additionally given a tour of the Group Service Desk in Berlin.
Diversity The Board continues to recognise the benefits that diverse skills, experience and points of view can bring to an organisation, and how it may assist the decision-making ability of the Board, thereby increasing its effectiveness.
Whilst the Board continues to recognise the continuing debate around requirements for diversity, including that which has taken place within European Union legislating bodies during 2013, and the associated principles involved, appointments to the Board will continue to remain primarily based on merit.
As at 31 December 2013, the Computacenter Board had one female Non-Executive Director, Regine Stachelhaus, representing 12.5 per cent of total Board membership.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 41 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate Governance report continued other things, the approval of acquisitions, major capital Effectiveness expenditure and Group strategy and budgets.
This schedule is reviewed at least annually, or more frequently where required Board Composition and Independence and, during the year, was updated once.
This schedule can be The membership of the Board as at 31 December 2013 is found on our website at www.
set out on pages 38 and 39, and on that date included six The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year to Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
With deal with the standing items on its agenda, including reviewing the appointment of Regine Stachelhaus in July 2013, and the and discussing any information provided to it by senior resignation of Ian Lewis from the Board in September 2013, management.
Additionally, the Board held a special meeting there have been four different independent Non-Executive during the year to, amongst other matters, discuss and approve Directors, excluding the Chairman, on the Board during the the return of approximately 75 million to the Companys course of the year.
The attendance of the Directors at Board shareholders, which was successfully completed in July 2013. and Committee meetings is additionally set out on pages 38, Day-to-day management and operational activities are delegated 51, 55 and 63 of this report.
to a duly authorised Group Executive Committee including, During the period, the Board has considered the independence amongst others, the Executive Directors, Group Chief Operating of each Director, taking into account the guidance provided Officer and Group Chief Commercial Officer.
Other Board level by the Code.
The Chairman, Greg Lock, was considered by matters are delegated to each of the Audit, Nomination and the Board to be independent on appointment, and each of Remuneration Committees, details of which can be found at Brian McBride, John Ormerod and Regine Stachelhaus are pages 51 to 70 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Terms considered by the Board to be independent in their character of Reference for each Committee can be obtained from the and judgement.
Brian McBride remains the Senior Independent Companys website, www.
com investors, or Director, following his appointment to the Board in 2011.
In this from the Company Secretary, upon request.
The composition role, Mr McBride acts as an intermediary between the Chairman of each Committee appears on pages 51, 55 and 63 and the other Directors.
The Chairman and Non-Executive following this report, as do reports from the Chairman of Directors met twice throughout the year without the Executive each Committee setting out the main responsibilities of their Directors being present.
respective Committee and its main activities during the year.
The Board acknowledges that the Company is not in The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate compliance with paragraph B.
1.2 of the Code, which requires and their responsibilities are clearly defined in writing, reviewed at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be annually and approved by the Board.
In summary, the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The founders of the Chairmans role is to lead and manage the Board, and to play a Company, Philip Hulme and Peter Ogden, are Non-Executive role in facilitating the discussion of the Companys strategy by Directors, but are not considered independent under the the Board.
The Chairman actively encourages contribution from Code, due to their long tenure, substantial shareholding in the all Directors and is responsible for ensuring that constructive Company and their previously held executive positions with the interaction is ongoing between the individual members of the Company.
The Board continues to review this matter and, as Board.
Externally, there have been no changes to the other a result of the external Board evaluation recently carried out, significant commitments of the Chairman during the year which it remains clear that the contribution being made by these would impact the time he has to fulfil his role as Chairman of two Directors to the Board, not least due to their continuity the Company.
of service and knowledge of the Company, is highly valued The Chief Executive, in turn, is responsible for the day-to-day by its other members.
management of the Groups operational activities and for the Roles and Responsibilities of the Board proper execution of strategy, as set by the Board.
There is no The Board is responsible for the management and performance dominant individual or group of individuals on the Board of the Group.
It plays a key role in discussing, reviewing and influencing its collective decision-making ability and the Board approving the strategic objectives of the Group, and through is comfortable that each of the Directors makes a valuable the review of business plans and budgets submitted by the contribution to the Board.
Executive Directors and senior management, is additionally Board Effectiveness responsible for ensuring that adequate resources are in place Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive a comprehensive to meet these aims.
The Board reviews the performance of induction programme, tailored to their specific background and the Executive Directors and senior management against the requirements.
New Directors receive an induction pack which targets set for the delivery of these agreed objectives, including contains information on the Groups business, its structure and a monthly review of the financial performance of each of the operations, Board procedures, corporate governance related Groups in-country units.
Additionally, the Board has the matters and details regarding Directors duties and powers and duties conferred upon it by the relevant laws of responsibilities.
All new Directors are introduced to the England and Wales and the Computacenter plc Articles of Groups senior management team.
There is also a documented schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board which additionally include, amongst Computacenter plc Annual Report and 42 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 All Directors receive appropriate documentation in advance Relations with shareholders of each Board and Committee meeting, including detailed briefings on all matters, in order to discharge their duties The Board recognises and values the importance of meeting effectively in considering a matter and reaching a decision the Companys shareholders to obtain their views and has on it.
established a programme to communicate with shareholders, A performance review of the Board, its Committees and based on its financial reporting calendar.
Directors has been undertaken using an external facilitator, The Board is informed of any substantial changes in the Nigel Davies, of NJMD.
NJMD has no connection with the ownership of the Companys shares by the Companys Company beyond this evaluation.
The process this year corporate brokers who provide monthly reports on that involved each Director completing a detailed questionnaire, ownership.
In addition, meetings are held with major tailored to reflect the activities of the Board and its Committees shareholders following both the full-year and half-year results.
Following this, a further follow-up interview was Normally, these meetings are with the Chief Executive and conducted with each Director, and the information from each Finance Director.
The whole Board is briefed on the outcome questionnaire and interview was then analysed and included of these meetings and any issues raised are discussed.
in a report for discussion and consideration by the Board as a whole.
The review indicates that the Board is effectively run In addition, once a year, the Companys top 15 shareholders and administered, and is functioning well as a cohesive unit.
are invited to meet individually with the Chairman and the It additionally found that there is appropriate opportunity for all Company Secretary to provide feedback on the Companys Directors to participate in open and constructive debate, and management and raise other comments, albeit only a few did not find any major areas of concern or identify any matters shareholders take up this opportunity.
Specifically, at these which were of particular concern to individual Directors.
It was meetings, the Company Secretary discusses the Companys noted that significant strategy review work had been carried corporate governance arrangements and invites feedback on out by the Board in 2013, and that the development of any areas of particular interest from the relevant shareholder.
appropriate objectives against which to measure the The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are Companys future performance was work in progress.
It was contactable at the Companys registered office to answer any recommended that the role of the Senior Independent Director queries that both institutional and individual shareholders may be formalised in writing, and plans are now in place to address have.
All of the Directors aim to attend the AGM and value the this recommendation.
opportunity of welcoming individual shareholders and other The Company arranges insurance cover in respect of legal investors to communicate directly and address their questions.
action against the Directors and, to the extent allowed by In addition to mandatory information, a full, fair and balanced legislation, the Company has issued an indemnity to each explanation of the business of all general meetings is sent in Director against claims brought by third parties.
Resolutions at the Companys general meetings have been passed on a show of hands and While the Companys Articles of Association require a Director proxies for and against each resolution together with any to be subject to election at the first AGM following his or her abstentions are announced at such meetings, noted in the appointment and thereafter every third year, the Board has minutes, available on the Companys website and notified to decided that, in accordance with the Code, with the exception the market.
of Regine Stachelhaus who will be standing for election for the first time, all Directors should be subject to re-election at the next AGM on 15 May 2014.
All Directors will then be subject to re-election at each AGM thereafter.
Board Support The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters and for ensuring that all Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are complied with and the Board is continually updated on regulatory and governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
A procedure is in place to enable individual Directors to obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, where they believe it is important to the furtherance of their duties.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 43 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate Governance report continued Responsibilities and authority structure Accountability The Board has overall responsibility for making strategic decisions and there is a written schedule of Matters Reserved Internal control for the Board.
The Group Executive Committee meets on The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and a monthly basis to discuss day-to-day operational matters reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and ensuring and, with the implementation of the Group Operating Model that the controls are robust and effective in enabling risks to be within the UK and Germany thus far, ultimate authority and appropriately assessed and managed.
The Groups systems responsibility for operational governance sits at Group level.
and controls are designed to manage risks, safeguard the The decision has been made to implement the model Groups assets and ensure the reliability of information used additionally within the Groups French business, and we both within the business and for publication.
This system of anticipate that this will have been completed by the end control is designed to reduce to a level consistent with the of the first half of 2014.
Boards risk appetite, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Control environment achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but The Group operates defined authorisation and approval not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
processes throughout all of its operations.
Access controls The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of exist where processes have been automated to ensure the the systems of internal control including financial, operational security of data.
Management information systems have been and compliance controls and risk management systems.
It is of developed to identify risks and to enable assessment of the the opinion that the Company has complied with the internal effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
Accountability control requirements of the Code throughout the year.
Where is reinforced and further scrutiny of costs and revenues weaknesses or opportunities for improvement are identified, encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives to customer changes are implemented and monitored.
All systems of internal control are designed to identify, evaluate Planning and reporting processes and manage significant risks faced by the Group continuously.
A three-year strategic plan is prepared or updated by The key elements of the Groups controls are as follows: senior management annually and reviewed by the Board.
Risk management A comprehensive budgetary process is completed annually and is subject to the approval of the Board.
Performance The primary responsibility for identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group lies with executive and operational is monitored through a rigorous and detailed financial and management reporting system, by which monthly results are management.
A comprehensive risk management programme is developed and monitored by the Group Risk Committee, the reviewed against budgets and agreed targets for the period which, additionally, are compared to historic data as deemed members of which include senior operational managers across the Group, the Finance Director and the Group Head of Internal appropriate, such as for the previous year.
The results and explanations for variances are regularly reported to the Board.
The Group Risk Committee is chaired by the Groups Chief Operating Officer.
Appropriate action is taken where variances arise.
The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and, through the Audit Management and specialists within the Finance Department are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance Committee, reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Groups risk management activities.
The Board receives regular of financial records and processes that ensure financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with applicable reports from the Group Risk Committee and periodically reviews the strategic risks faced by the Group and key laws and regulations and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidated mitigation plans.
financial statements is completed by management to ensure Further information on the key risks facing the Company and that the financial position and results of the Group are the work of the Group Risk Committee can be found within appropriately reflected.
All financial information published the Risk report on pages 12 to 15.
Through a programme by the Group is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
of assessment, appropriate measures and systems of Capital expenditure and investments control are maintained and, where necessary, developed and implemented.
Detailed business interruption contingency plans Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to ensure that proposals for capital expenditure are properly are in place for all key sites and these are regularly tested, in accordance with an agreed schedule.
Cases for all investment projects are reviewed and approved at divisional level.
Major investment projects are subject to approval by the Board, and Board input and approval is sought for all merger and acquisition proposals.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 44 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Centralised treasury function Annual General Meeting The Board has established and reviews regularly key The AGM of the Company will be held on 15 May 2014 at treasury policies over matters such as counterparty exposure, Computacenter House, 93-101 Blackfriars Road, SE1 8HL.
The borrowing arrangements, and foreign exchange exposure AGM notice of meeting sets out each of the resolutions being management.
All cash payments and receipts are managed proposed.
This notice will shortly be available for download by centralised finance functions within each of the Group from www.
com, and has been mailed to operating companies.
During 2013, consistent with the shareholders if they have elected to receive hard copies.
ongoing implementation of the Group Operating Model, a Compliance with DTR coordinated Group treasury function has been established.
The The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6, relating to management of liquidity and borrowing facilities for customer the share capital of the Company, can be found within the specific requirements, ongoing capital expenditure and working Directors report from page 46. capital of the business are all undertaken by the Group treasury By order of the Board function which reports to the Finance Director, with regular reporting to the Board.
Quality and integrity of staff Rigorous recruitment procedures are in place to ensure that new employees are of a suitable calibre.
Management continuously monitors training requirements, and ongoing appraisal procedures are in place, to ensure that required Simon Pereira standards are maintained across the Group.
Resource Company Secretary requirements are identified by managers and reviewed 10 March 2014 by the relevant Executive Committee.
Compliance Policies The Company has in place a number of compliance policies which are applied, including those relating to Business Ethics and Anti-bribery.
Any breach of these policies by an employee is considered a disciplinary matter and is dealt with accordingly.
The Companys Business Ethics policy outlines a procedure for Whistleblowing, where concerns of wrongdoing can be reported to the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Internal audit The Group has an internal audit function led by the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk who reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, has directed the work of the Internal Audit Department towards those areas of the business that are considered to be of the highest risk.
The Audit Committee approves a rolling audit programme, ensuring that all significant areas of the business are independently reviewed over, approximately, a three-year period.
The programme and the findings of the reviews are continually assessed to ensure that they take account of the latest information and in particular, the results of the annual review of internal control and any shifts in the focus areas of the various businesses.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit department and the Groups risk management programme are reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 45 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
