Audit Committee report Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee include the review of financial information released by the Company, including its annual and half-year statements and results.
The Committee is required to review, challenge, and report to the Board on the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and the key judgements made in the preparation of John Ormerod financial information.
The full responsibilities of the Committee Audit Committee can be found within its Terms of Reference on our website, Chairman at www.
com investors Committee Membership, Meetings Attendance Member Role record and Performance 1.
John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 4 4 All members of the Audit Committee are Independent NonChairman Executive Directors of the Company, and are considered by 2.
Ian Lewis Non-Executive Director 3 3 the Board to have a wide range of business and financial experience to enable the Committee to perform effectively.
Brian McBride Non-Executive Director 4 4 The Board considers the Chairman of the Audit Committee to 4.
Regine Non-Executive Director 1 1 have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes Stachelhaus of the Code.
The Committee met four times during the course of 2013.
Meetings are attended by members and, at the Committees invitation, the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director, Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk and representatives of the external auditor.
Others are invited to the Committees meetings to participate Dear Shareholder in topics relevant to their responsibilities or experience.
The Committee also meets privately, at least on an annual basis, Set out from pages 51 to 54 is the Audit Committee report.
with the external auditor and the Group Head of Internal Audit In reporting to you, we have sought to respond to stakeholders and Risk.
The Chairman of the Committee has regular informal changing requirements and expectations of audit committees.
discussions with the Finance Director, Group Head of Internal In particular we have: Audit and Risk and our external auditor.
He also receives the Set out in more detail how the Committee has reviewed reports of the Internal Audit department as they are issued, and and challenged the accounting policies and judgements additionally receives feedback on the preparation and audit which underlie our reported financial information: of accounts as that work progresses and as any significant Identified how we assess the quality of our external judgements arise.
audit and monitor the auditors independence: Main activities and significant Initiated a process for an audit tender in 2014: and Assisted the Board in formally confirming that the 2013 areas considered Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and The Committee reviewed the primary areas of judgement understandable.
made in the preparation of the Companys financial information in 2013, and these included the following: This is no doubt the start of improved communication between audit committees and shareholders, and we Contract accounting and revenue recognition welcome feedback.
The complexity of the contractual arrangements with several large customers requires significant consideration to be given to the most appropriate accounting treatment, and judgements made by management in particular around the recognition of revenue accruing from separate component parts of these contracts.
During 2013, Management was able to reassess John Ormerod the expected outturn on certain long-term contracts.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee the contracts progressed and uncertainties were resolved, 10 March 2014 the overall contract profitability was reassessed and a one-off gain of 4.0 million recognised.
The Committee has reviewed the judgements made in this area by management and, after due challenge and debate, was content with the assumptions made and the judgements applied.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 51 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Audit Committee report continued Following the Managed Services contract issues which Going concern basis arose within the Groups German business in 2012, the The application of the going concern basis was discussed by Audit Committee directed that a full review of the current and the Committee, in the context of the Group having returned forecasted financial performance for each problem contract approximately 75 million to its shareholders during the course within that business be undertaken by Management and of 2013 and suffered a statutory loss in the first half of the year.
reviewed by the Groups auditors.
The completion of this The review by the Committee of analysis prepared by work established that three of these contracts were likely to Management supported the Boards decision to seek an be loss-making over the course of their lifetime.
Following additional committed facility of 40 million for the Group to robust challenge and questioning around the work carried provide significant financial headroom to meet unexpected out, including the assumptions used and judgements made cash requirements if required, prior to it approving the return of by Management in calculating the level of future losses on the capital transaction.
The financial projections and review were contracts, the Committee agreed with the recommendation updated at the end of the year and on that basis the of Management that a provision of 10.7 million be taken Committee agreed that the 2013 financial statements were within the Groups 2013 Interim Accounts for forecasted appropriately prepared on a going concern basis.
losses on these three contracts both during the second Deferred tax assets half of 2013 and over the remainder of their lifetime.
In 2012, the Company recognised certain deferred tax assets, Presentation of exceptional items stemming from accumulated tax losses within its French and Exceptional items, such as for contract losses and German subsidiaries.
The level of deferred tax asset recognition reorganisation costs, have been disclosed within the Group in relation to accumulated tax losses is underpinned by a financial statements in each of the past two years, and range of judgements, and is substantially based on the future Management has now reclassified prior year numbers, forecast profitability of these entities.
The performance of the specifically in relation to the contract losses in Germany French business in 2013 has resulted in the need to write off outlined above, to ensure that corresponding numbers are 2.2 million of deferred tax assets as an exceptional item in consistently presented.
Given the size of these losses and the 2013.
The Committee has therefore received and challenged desire to enable readers of the Companys accounts to appropriately the financial information relating to future understand the underlying trading performance of the business profitability, and the assumption made within that information in 2012 and 2013, it was considered necessary to treat these such as to the likelihood of their recoverability.
as exceptional in 2013, and to restate the 2012 results Group ERP System accordingly.
The Committee received input from the external The Group successfully implemented its ERP system into its auditors in considering carefully all matters identified as UK and German businesses in 2011.
However, in 2013, the exceptional in the Groups financial results, to confirm that implementation of this system within its French business was such accounting treatment is consistent with appropriate less successful for a number of reasons.
This resulted in a accounting standards and practice.
The Committee concluded number of operational problems affecting, for a short period, that the classification of items detailed as exceptional within the ability of the French business to manage the delivery of the Group financial results was appropriate.
product and parts through its logistics system.
This, in turn, Impairment had a resultant negative impact on the visibility and The Committee considered whether the non-current and transparency of management reporting during the second half intangible assets within the Groups French business should of 2013.
Whilst it is clear that the financial performance of the be impaired following the poor financial performance by French business has been impacted by these issues, they have the Groups French business in the first half of 2013.
The now been resolved and the relevant order backlogs have been judgements in relation to asset impairment largely relate to cleared.
As difficulties with the ERP system are overcome, it the assumptions underlying the future performance of the will facilitate the implementation of the Group Operating Model, business.
As such, the Committee received relevant financial which will be used, amongst other things, as the engine to reports from Management, from which, it challenged and drive an improved business performance in the Groups French debated the assumptions underlying the forecasted information business over the medium term.
The Committee monitored the provided and Managements recommendation as to the response of management to these issues and, in particular, quantum of the impairment charge that should be taken.
received reports from management and the Groups auditors As a result the Committee agreed with the recommendation that assured the Committee that they did not impact the of Management that a non-cash impairment of 12.2 million reliability of the Groups reported results.
be made to goodwill and acquired intangibles within the French business.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 52 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Annual report External audit At the request of the Board, the Committee assisted with The Audit Committee is required to oversee the oversight of the procedures performed to provide the formal Companys relationship with its external auditor, and to assurance now required from the Board that the Annual Report make recommendations in relation to the Board concerning and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and that it the appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess external auditor.
the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Appointment and independence of external auditor new procedures are largely the formalisation of prior practice.
The Committee considers the appointment or reappointment The Committee advised the Board that appropriate procedures of the external auditor, including the timing of rotation of the had been applied.
incumbent audit partner, on an annual basis.
Ernst & Young Internal audit and controls LLP have served as the Companys auditors since it listed in The Board accepts and acknowledges its overall responsibility 1998.
The Committee recommended that Ernst & Young LLP for the Groups systems of Internal Control and Risk be appointed for the 2014 audit.
In accordance with good Management, and to ensure that these work appropriately governance practice, the Committee agreed to carry out an and effectively.
On behalf of the Board, during the year, the audit tender in 2014, with its recommendation to be put before Committee monitored the Groups risk management and shareholders for approval at the Companys AGM in 2015. reviewed the effectiveness of its internal control procedures.
Effectiveness A number of detailed areas for improvement are routinely The Committee reviews the effectiveness and quality of the identified and actions implemented as a result of the review external audit process by: of internal controls by Management and the internal audit Reviewing the audit plan and monitoring changes in function.
The Committee monitors implementation of agreed response to new issues or changing circumstances: improvements.
In 2012, there were serious control failures Receiving reports on the results of the audit work in relation to the bidding and take-on of Managed Services performed: contracts in Germany where much work has been done and A post-audit review: and improvements are ongoing.
With the exception of those issues Considering the report of the Audit Inspection Unit on outlined above concerning the implementation of the Group Ernst & Young LLP.
ERP system into France, no other material control failures were identified in 2013.
The Committee receives and reviews the annual audit plan from Ernst & Young LLP identifying the key risks to the The Committee continues to oversee the Internal Audit business which will be subject to their audit process.
In 2013, function, and carried out a review of the departments these risks included contract accounting and revenue resources.
The Committee received an update from the Group recognition, presentation of exceptional items, impairment, the Head of Internal Audit and Risk at each meeting during the year going concern basis of accounting, deferred tax assets and the on current audit activities, and any associated issues resulting effect of the Group ERP system implementation in France on from the completion of such work.
The Chairman of the the visibility and transparency of management reporting, due to Committee additionally meets with the Group Head of Internal the inherent Management judgements required in, or as a Audit and Risk on a number of occasions throughout the year, result of, these issues.
At this planning stage, the Committee through which he is continually updated on the activities of the agrees with the auditors their assessment of materiality internal audit function, and receives a frequent assessment as and overall scope of work and approves the audit fee to whether the function is adequately resourced.
The Committee additionally assesses the Following the contractual services issues which arose within the quality of the audit process through the audit reporting from Groups German subsidiary in 2012, the Committee gave Ernst & Young LLP in relation to such issues.
direction to the Groups internal audit function to focus on the The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external large contract lifecycle.
This has resulted in work and reports audit process by means of a detailed questionnaire which being reviewed by the Committee around the end-to-end is completed by key stakeholders and relevant internal contract bid, take-on and in life-service governance processes.
The results of the questionnaire were then Additionally, work has been carried out to review adherence discussed as a specific agenda item at the Committee meeting across the Group to newly implemented industrialisation immediately following the completion of the questionnaire processes and authorisation structures, as part of the new process, and any actions requested by the Company to Group Operating Model in place within the UK and Germany, enhance effectiveness were followed-up and appropriately and currently being rolled out across our French business.
The Committee additionally receives and Committee has also received reports and updates on the effect reviews reports from Ernst & Young on their quality controls of the implementation of the now Group-wide ERP system in and independence policies.
France, and carried out its periodic review of certain controls including treasury, foreign exchange, tax compliance and tax risk.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 53 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Audit Committee report continued Auditor independence Summary of policy for engagement of The Committee places considerable importance on ensuring auditors to undertake non-audit work the continuing independence of the Groups auditors.
This The external auditor is appointed primarily to report on the topic is reviewed at least annually with the auditors, who also annual and interim financial statements.
The Committee have procedures in place, to ensure they bring to bear places a high priority on ensuring that this independent role of appropriate scepticism and avoid conflicts of interest.
reporting to shareholders is not compromised.
The Committee In support of maintaining the auditors independence, the recognises, however, that there are occasions when the Committee has established a policy in relation to the scope auditors are best placed to undertake other accounting, and extent of provision of non-audit services by the Groups advisory and consultancy work in view of their knowledge auditors which is summarised on this page.
During the year, of the Companys business, confidentiality and cost the Committee monitored compliance with this policy by considerations.
The Committee has therefore established approving the audit fee and monitoring the level of non-audit procedures to ensure that any non-audit work is only work provided by the external auditor, resulting in non-audit undertaken by auditors where there is no risk of compromise fees being 22 per cent of the Ernst & Young LLP overall to their independence.
This related primarily to additional tax, To this end, the Committee has formally defined areas of work compliance and consulting work done on the Return of for which the auditors will be prohibited from engagement and Value to shareholders.
The Committee deemed appropriate areas where, subject to following the stipulated processes of to use the Companys auditors for this work due to their authorisation and where appropriate, competitive tendering, the existing and detailed prior knowledge and understanding auditors may be engaged.
The former areas of work include of the business.
the preparation of accounting records and financial statements which will ultimately be subject to audit.
Currently, the latter areas of potential engagement may include acquisition due diligence and tax compliance and advice.
In all cases significant non-audit engagements are subject to prior approval by the Audit Committee or if approval is required between meetings, by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, the Committee does not expect the value of non-audit services to exceed the aggregate value of audit and audit related services in any financial year.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 54 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013
