Nomination Committee report Membership and attendance Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are the independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
However, input from all the Directors is sought by the Committee and it involves the Board as a whole when performing its key responsibilities.
Details of the membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the year are provided opposite.
Greg Lock The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
Nomination Committee Main activities of the Committee during 2013 Chairman The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during 2013 and its work included: Attendance Undertaking the process of identifying and nominating Members Role record an additional Board member, following which Ms. Regine 1.
Greg Lock Chairman 3 3 Chairman Stachelhaus was appointed to the Board in July 2013.
The Committee engaged the executive search and 2.
Ian Lewis Non-Executive Director 2 2 recruitment firm Spencer Stuart for this process which, aside from for this type of engagement, has no other 3.
John Ormerod Non-Executive Director 3 3 connection with the Company.
Brian McBride Non-Executive Director 3 3 Reviewing the performance of the Directors who stood for re-election at the 2013 AGM and recommending their re-election.
Reviewing, in my absence, the renewal of my appointment as Chairman of the Board.
Considering the composition of the Board through a review Responsibilities of the Nomination Committee of the skills, knowledge and experience of the individual The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to members and concluding on the appropriateness of the assist the Board with: Boards combined ability to adequately challenge and support the Companys aspirations.
The search and selection process for the appointment of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
John Ormerod, currently the Companys Audit Committee Reviewing whether to recommend a Director for re-election Chairman and a Non-Executive Director of the Board, was at the AGM.
appointed to these roles on 31 October 2006.
Under the terms Reviewing the time commitment required of Non-Executive of the Code, after nine years of service as a member of the Directors.
Board, he will no longer be considered independent.
As such, Determining whether the Boards composition remains Mr Ormerod has notified the Company of his intention to step appropriate, with particular regard to its size, balance of skills, down as a Non-Executive Director of the Company and knowledge, experience and diversity and whether these Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee by no later than enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in May Succession planning of the Board, and the induction, 2015.
The Company will now take steps to facilitate this training and development of the Directors.
change and, as part of this process, in 2014 the Nomination Identifying and nominating Board candidates to fill any Board Committee will commence a process to recruit a new vacancy, and ensuring that there is a formal, thorough and Non-Executive Director to chair the Companys transparent procedure in place for the appointment of any Audit Committee.
new Directors to the Board.
Reviewing the membership of its Committees.
The full terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are available on our website, www.
Greg Lock Chairman of the Nomination Committee 10 March 2014 Computacenter plc Annual Report and 55 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
