OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 65 ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Chief Executive and the Group Finance The Chairman regularly attends the Director are the Companys principal financial results presentations.
The Board spokesmen with investors, fund managers, is kept informed about any discussions analysts, the press and other interested with shareholders, and the Directors are stakeholders.
The Board is committed regularly provided with analysts reports to providing investors with regular and investor feedback via the Companys announcements of significant events affecting corporate brokers.
the Group, including its business strategy and The Companys website, www.
provides shareholders with comprehensive The Company organises a dedicated investor information on the Groups recent business relations programme with institutional activities and financial developments, including investors, which includes formal events webcasts, press releases and recordings of during the year along with a regular interviews with the Chief Executive.
series of one-to-one and group meetings.
These events also provide an opportunity for CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE AGM shareholders to meet members of the senior The AGM is an opportunity for the Directors management team.
Examples of these events to communicate with, and answer questions during 2013 were: the fulland half-year from, shareholders.
All Directors are available results announcements: the AGM: and the to meet informally with shareholders before interim management statements.
The Chief and after the meeting.
Prior to the formal Executive and Group Finance Director also business of the meeting, the Chief Executive attend investor conferences to present, meet makes a presentation on the progress and investors and participate in panel discussions: performance of the Group.
they attended such conferences in the UK, The Notice of AGM is dispatched to USA and the Netherlands during the year.
shareholders at least 20 working days The one-to-one and group meetings provide before the meeting.
The Company proposes additional context around the Groups separate resolutions on each substantially business strategy and financial performance.
separate issue, with voting conducted by poll.
During 2013, around 169 meetings took The Board believes this voting process is more place with 353 existing and potential democratic than a show of hands since all institutional investors.
Of these meetings, the shares voted at the meeting, as well as proxy Chief Executive attended 92 meetings, and votes lodged before the meeting, are counted.
the Group Finance Director 146 meetings.
For each resolution, shareholders will have the Additionally, around 80 finance professionals option to vote either for or against a resolution frequently join the conference calls which or to withhold their vote.
Following the are arranged following the quarterly meeting, the results of votes lodged for and financial announcements.
against each resolution are announced to the London Stock Exchange and displayed on the The Chairman and Senior Independent Companys website.
Director are available to shareholders to discuss governance and strategy or any concerns they may have which contact through the usual channels has failed to resolve or is otherwise inappropriate.
In April2013, the Chairman contacted 11 major shareholders and offered a meeting with himself and the Senior Independent Director.
One shareholder accepted this offer.
All Directors are available for meetings with shareholders if requested.
