58 GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION STRONG GOVERNANCE WILL PROMOTE OURLONG-TERM SUCCESS As a Board we are responsible to our shareholders, customers and other stakeholders for the performance of the Company and for promoting its long-term success.
The Board continues to support the strategy that our Chief Executive, David Sleath, and his executive team are implementing to improve shareholder returns through Disciplined Capital Allocation and Operational Excellence.
In this report we explain how corporate Senior employees not directly involved in governance works in SEGRO.
Good corporate the drafting of the Annual Report were then governance is vital to support the delivery asked to assess the document as a whole of our strategic priorities and is central to all against the same criteria.
Comments were aspects of our business.
It is embedded in the incorporated into the final version of the way we manage our business and is designed document which was submitted for approval to create an environment where matters by the Board.
can be considered and decisions made at Board composition is critical in ensuring the appropriate level in the organisation.
effective and value-adding corporate Throughout 2013, the Company complied governance.
Appropriate succession plans are with the UK Corporate Governance Code in place for the Board and key management the Code and this report sets out how roles.
Thom Wernink will retire at the 2014 we applied its principles to the running of AGM, having served nine years with the the business.
Board and a process is under way to appoint One of the new provisions of the Code is for his successor.
the Directors to explain their responsibility for preparing the annual report and accounts, and confirm that they consider, taken as a NIGEL RICH CBE whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable CHAIRMAN and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In order to comply with this requirement those individuals with overall responsibility for each section of the Annual Report were briefed on the Code requirements and were given a set of criteria by which to assess whether their respective sections were fair, balanced and understandable.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
