62 GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY RISK MANAGEMENT CREATION OF SEGRO EUROPEAN The Board recognises that effective risk management is central to the achievement LOGISTICSPARTNERSHIP SELP of the Groups strategic objectives and the This case study explains how the SELP transaction was discussed and approved at various long-term sustainable growth of the business.
levels within the Companys governance structure.
The creation of SELP is an important The Board has overall accountability for milestone in our strategic progression.
Understandably, a project of this size and complexity ensuring that risk is effectively managed was a matter of signicance for the Directors and it was discussed extensively at both Board across the Group, and the Audit Committee and Committee meetings over an 18 month period.
reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process on behalf of the Board.
During this time, the Board received presentations from the Executive Directors and senior Further details about the risk management operational and financial managers, along with external advisers Morgan Stanley & Co. process and the Groups Principal Risks are Limited, Merrill Lynch International, UBS Limited and Clifford Chance LLP.
For the Board set out on pages 32 to 37.
See case study on it was important to understand not just the impact and risks associated with creating the page 63. venture, but also to appreciate the impact on the rest of the Group and its stakeholders.
Set out below is a summary of the different aspects of the project which were considered CONFLICTS atBoard meetings which illustrates the Boards approach to major transactions.
Directors are required to submit any potential or actual conicts of interest they may have Spring Summer 2012 Autumn Winter 2012 with the Company to the Board for approval.
t Transaction rationale t Feedback from potential venture investors and lenders INDUCTION AND TRAINING t Financial impact on the Group t Review of competing logistics funds Newly appointed Directors participate in a t Appointment of advisers and approval structured and tailored induction programme of fees t Consideration of proposed organisation and on appointment receive a comprehensive and management structure for the venture t Key execution and strategic risks pack of information on the Group and its t Business plan for the fund t Feedback on pre-marketing governance structure.
See case study on investor soundings t Update on transaction rationale and key page 68.
Ongoing training is provided to all strategic risks t Discussion of likely capital markets reaction Directors either during Board or Committee t Brokers views on likely equity meetings or by one-to-one meetings with market reaction senior managers.
During 2013, senior manager presentations included briengs Spring Summer 2013 on the investment and asset disposal t Review of the background and selection criteria for potential investors and comparison programme, asset plans and treasury matters.
ofindicative offers The Companys advisers, including corporate t Consideration of the transaction structuring options legal, tax and funding brokers, real estate specialists, legal advisers and economic commentators, attended t Consideration of loan facilities and the level of gearing Board meetings or dinners during the year t Update on transaction rationale and key execution risks to present on particular matters or to provide t Presentation of strategic financial impact of the venture on the Group within the context market updates.
ofthe Groups Medium Term Plan Most Board meetings take place in London t Summary of key legal documentation but during the year meetings were also held at Heathrow Airport and in Warsaw.
The Risk Management Committee discussed the risks of setting up and running the joint The Board met with management teams in venture, including those risks associated with managing assets partly on behalf of a third-party.
these locations and had tours of the Groups The Finance Committee considered the impact on the capital structure of the Group, property portfolios in Heathrow, Warsaw including changes to funding requirements and the currency and interest rate hedging and Lodz.
approach related to a substantial repayment of Group debt and an increase in debt held within joint ventures.
It also considered the terms of the loan facilities.
The Audit Committee assessed the impact on financial reporting, internal controls and riskmanagement associated with managing the joint venture.
In addition, the Executive, Investment and Operations Committees discussed the transaction in terms of pricing, impact on earnings, capital structure and HR resourcing.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 63 To enhance his understanding of the day-toAll Directors have access to the advice and day issues facing the Group, the Chairman services of the Company Secretary, who is RISK has regular lunches at different ofce locations responsible for ensuring compliance with with employees across the Group, varying in Board procedures.
Directors have the right to seniority, from a cross-section of the business.
seek independent professional advice at the In 2012 we reported that the Group Companys reasonable expense.
had reviewed the effectiveness of its risk Analysts reports and sector updates are management framework and practices circulated weekly and Directors receive The Company maintains directors and and had identied certain areas for regular summaries of press cuttings.
ofcers liability insurance, which gives improvement in 2013.
Progress was Between meetings, the Chief Executive appropriate cover for legal action brought made during the year in implementing and the Chairman regularly communicate against its Directors.
the Groups new approach to risk with the Directors to update them on management, which included: recent developments.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS t approval of a new statement of risk In accordance with the Code, each of Individually, Directors are encouraged to appetite by the Board the Directors, save for Thom Wernink attend seminars and conferences associated who is retiring, will submit themselves for with their areas of expertise or responsibility.
t a comprehensive review of the Groups election or re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Risk Register During the year, the Chairman met with The Nomination Committee Report on pages the Non-Executive Directors, individually t regular reviews of existing and emerging 66 to 68 provides more information about and collectively, to discuss their respective risks by the relevant Committees the Directors appraisal process, while their contribution and training needs, business skills and expertise are set out in the Directors t interviews with individual risk managers matters and succession planning.
biographies on pages 56 and 57. to review and update the risk s for The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the which they were responsible Company Secretary are always available for the Directors to discuss any issues concerning t enhancement of reporting materials Board meetings or other matters.
t significant progress in addressing business continuity risks including a business impact assessment, an incident management plan and updated business continuity plans for the Companys principal ofces 64 GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY EVALUATION BOARD EVALUATION The Board has a policy of undertaking externally facilitated evaluations every three years and internal reviews in the intervening The Board evaluation questionnaire covered nine key themes and set out below are some two years.
External evaluations took place in direct quotes from the responses which were received.
In 2013, the Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, led THEME SELECTED QUOTES FROM THE QUESTIONNAIRES an internal review process.
Questionnaires for Composition oftheBoard The Board composition seems to full the objectives of not being too big the Board and the three Board Committees and unwieldy, but also allowing for a good range of skills, capabilities and were prepared that encouraged the Directors experience to be present around the table to provide written comments on a number of Balance of powers within The Non-Executive Directors ask appropriate and searching questions themes rather than simply tick boxes.
the Board and across its andchallenge hard Committees The relationship between the Chairman and CEO is a strong and healthy The Directors were unanimous in their view one with adequate challenge both ways but achieves a co-operative and that the Board was operating effectively.
constructive outcome There was agreement that the Board was Delegation limits to the executive team seem to work well as the quantity of transactions coming to Board feels about right to have a view of the the right size and had the appropriate risksthe business is taking without micro managing range of skills and experience.
The quality Knowledge ofthebusiness The property tours to see property and meet the local management of Board discussion was good and there areimportant was a climate of trust and transparency.
Access to senior people is always willingly facilitated The Executive Directors were seen as being Role of the Chairman The Chairman provides effective leadership.
and encourages debate open and engaged, while the Non-Executive from all participants Directors brought a range of skills and I feel that I can constructively challenge decisions and that these views willbe listened to in a respectful manner experience, and ensured constructive debate.
Strategy and direction There is clarity of direction and a healthy debate on implementation The Board agenda could, on occasion, be more focused on assessing The performance of the three Board thesuccess of the strategy, its delivery and evolution rather than justifying the largely agreed plan Committees was also reviewed and it was noted that each was performing effectively.
Relationship The relationship with shareholders is taken extremely seriously within with shareholders the business As part of the appraisal process, the Senior Board administration The reduction in the frequency of meetings means that agendas are Independent Director meets annually with longer and the meetings cover more ground I view this as advantageous.
the Non-Executive Directors to discuss the Agendas are well balanced to spread Board business throughout the annual schedule performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman, with the Non-Executive Directors, also Risk management Our risk management approach is undergoing a review and the Board has hadample opportunity to become involved in the process conducted a performance evaluation of The Chairman ensures that on major decisions the risks are clearly identied the Chief Executive and concluded that he and discussed prior to a decision being made continued to perform effectively and had Effectiveness The atmosphere is constructive and engaging but I never sense there made significant progress with the execution isa desire to avoid constructive challenge which is generally received in of the agreed strategy.
theright spirit The management team are tested and stretched but also trusted and supported SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
