60 GOVERNANCE THE WORK OF THE BOARD ROLE OF THE BOARD t review of asset plans for holdings in COMMITTEE STRUCTURE Vimercate and Brussels Strategic Report : The principal role of the Board is to ensure The Board has delegated a number of its that the Groups strategy creates and sustains responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination t approval of the creation of SELP, the sale long-term value for its investors.
Details of and Remuneration Committees, details of 974 million assets to SELP, entry into a how the Company generates and preserves of which are set out below.
The Terms of shareholders agreement with a joint venture value are set out in the Strategic Report on Reference of these Committees can be found partner Strategic Report and case study on pages 1 to 55.
The Board retains responsibility at www.
com in the Investors section.
page 62 : for the approval of certain matters which The Company ensures that these Committees t approval of the investments in Zeran Park include Group strategy, the annual budget, are provided with sufficient resources to II, Mitry-Mory, the Duke, Olympus and the dividend policy, major investments and undertake their duties.
purchase of 50 per cent share JV from disposals and financial structure.
There is an Responsibility for all operational matters, KBC, and the Swalink swap with L&G approved Schedule of Matters Reserved for including the implementation of Group Strategic Report : Decision by the Board, which was updated strategy, is delegated to the Chief Executive.
t approval of a number of non-core The Executive Committee supports the disposals including Neckermann, Thales, The day-to-day running of the Group Chief Executive in the delivery of strategy, IQ Winnersh, West Cross Industrial Park is delegated by the Board to the Chief establishing financial and operating targets Strategic Report : Executive who is supported by the and monitoring performance against those Executive Committee.
The Committee oversees the t a review of the Schedule of Matters processes for identifying and managing risk.
Reserved for Decision by the Board, KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD At each meeting the Committee reviews including the parameters and limits DURING2013 financial and operational performance, for the approval of investment and considers any health and safety incidents, During the year, in addition to its routine development recommendations: carries out a pre-approval review of items business, matters considered by the t consideration of the Groups approach to requiring Board approval and acts as a Board included: community engagement and charitable primary approval channel for matters below t annual strategy review Strategic Report : giving CSR report : Board-approval level.
The Group Finance Director, the Chief Operating officer, the t approval of the Medium-Term Financial Plan t a review of the results of the Group-wide Chief Investment officer and the Group HR and setting of medium-term objectives: customer employee satisfaction surveys Director are also members of the Executive CSR report : t a review of medium-term funding strategy: Committee.
The Executive Committee has its Financial Review : t a review of the Groups sustainability own Terms of Reference and meets monthly.
strategy and progress with targets t review of independent valuation reports, The Executive Committee delegates CSR report : in particular, early in the year, the 2012 H2 some of its responsibilities to a further reduction in the valuation of the Groups t consideration of the health and safety four Committees: non-core and larger strategic assets strategy and significant matters that have t the Investment Committee: and its South East UK suburban ofces: arisen during the year CSR report : Strategic Report : t the Operations Committee: t the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys internal auditor Audit t rolling reviews of the performance of t the Risk Management Committee: and investments and developments over the Committee Report : t the Finance Committee.
previous three years: t the appointment of two Executive Directors These Committees have their own Terms of t consideration of the outlook for the and a Non-Executive Director Nomination Reference and membership includes at least property market, both occupier and Committee Report : one member of the Executive Committee.
investment, and the economic climate t approval of dividend strategy: Strategic Report : t an annual review of Treasury policies t review of risks identied and resulting action Financial Review : and plans, consideration of risk as it relates to t an update on corporate regulatory changes strategy and risk appetite Principal Risks : and reporting requirements.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
