70 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT COMPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE 2013 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES By invitation, there were a number of t Reviewing the integrity, consistency and regular attendees at each of the Committees keyaccounting judgements, including meetings, including the Group Finance going concern, in the Companys halfand Director and the Head of Reporting, as full-year financial statements: well as the internal and external auditors.
t Monitoring the independence and The Chairman of the Company and the effectiveness of the internal and external Chief Executive also attended by invitation.
auditors, and also the remuneration of the Throughout the year, the Committee met external auditor: regularly with each of the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
t Assessing the independence of the valuers The February and July meetings of the of the Groups property portfolio and Committee are scheduled to precede the gaining assurance around the valuation issue of fulland half-year financial reports.
This is the largest area of Over the course of the year, the Committee judgement for the Committee in connection Chairman had a number of separate meetings with the Companys financial statements: with both the lead external audit partner t Oversight and challenge of the risk at Deloitte LLP and the lead internal audit management process: partner at KPMG LLP.
t Internal control oversight and challenge Prior to the publication of the 2013 Annual of the internal control processes and the Report and Accounts, the Committee met, control environment: and without management present, with CBRE Limited, the valuer of the Groups whollyt Oversight of matters relating to tax and any owned portfolio and certain of the Groups potential impact such matters may have on joint-venture assets, to challenge the valuation the integrity of the financial statements.
process and to review the independence of the valuer.
Chart 1 opposite sets out the significant matters considered by the Committee during In 2013, presentations were given to the the year in relation to the financial statements Committee by the Head of Corporate Finance, and the actions taken.
the Head of Business Information Systems and Risk Management, the Head of Tax and Corporate Finance Manager, and the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
