OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 59 LEADERSHIP ROLE OF THE BOARD of the Code, each of the Non-Executive He ensures a constructive relationship Directors is considered independent in exists between the Executive and the The Board is responsible for creating and character and judgement.
The Chief Executive delivering sustainable shareholder value.
wasconsidered independent on appointment is responsible for the leadership of the Group Individually, the Directors act in a way they and the Board still considers him to beso.
and operational and strategic performance.
consider will promote the long-term success of Further information is provided in the The Senior Independent Director acts as the Company for the benefit of shareholders, Nomination Committee Report on pages a sounding board to the Chairman and with regard to the interests of the Groups 66to 68. serves as an intermediary for other Directors employees, the impact of the business on the when necessary.
community as well as on the environment and ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES on the interests of other stakeholders.
OF THEDIRECTORS ATTENDANCE BOARD MEMBERSHIP The Board is collectively responsible for All Directors are expected to attend Board the success of the Group.
The Executive and Committee meetings of which they are Details of the Directors and their full Directors are directly responsible for business a member.
During 2013, there were seven biographical details, including the skills and operations, while the Non-Executive Directors scheduled Board meetings and four experience they each bring to the Board, are are responsible for bringing independent ad-hoc meetings.
The Board comprises judgement and scrutiny to the decisions a Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Attendance at Board and Board Committee takenby the Board.
Directors and five independent Nonmeetings during 2013 is set out in the table Executive Directors, all of whom are equally The division of responsibilities of the below.
From time to time, Directors cannot responsible for the proper stewardship and Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior attend a meeting because of prior business leadership of the Group.
During the year, Independent Director are set out in writing commitments.
In such circumstances they are two independent Non-Executive Directors and approved by the Board.
The Chairman provided with the papers in advance of the retired and two Executive Directors were isprimarily responsible for the leadership meeting and given an opportunity to discuss appointed.
Taking into account the provisions and effective working of the Board.
TABLE OF ATTENDANCE Nigel Christopher Margaret Andy Justin Phil Mark David Doug Thom 1 1 Rich Fisher Ford Gulliford Read Redding Robertshaw Sleath Webb Wernink BOARD 11 11 11 5 11 5 11 11 10 10 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings out of a out of a out of a out of a out of a out of a out of a out of a out of a out of a possible 11 possible 11 possible 11 possible 5 possible 11 possible 5 possible 11 possible 11 possible 11 possible 11 AUDIT COMMITTEE N A 4 4 N A N A N A N A N A 4 3 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings out of a out of a out of a out of a possible 4 possible 4 possible 4 possible 4 NOMINATION COMMITTEE 44 3 N A N A N A4N 4 N A A Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings out of a out of a out of a out of a out of a possible 4 possible 4 possible 4 possible 4 possible 4 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE N A 5 5 N A N A N A5N N A N A A Meetings Meetings Meetings out of a out of a out of a possible 5 possible 5 possible 5 Nigel Rich and David Sleath attend some of the Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
Justin Read attends the Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
1 Appointed to the Board 1 May 2013.
