66 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committees key role is to ensure that the Board has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively and to deliver our strategy.
COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending new appointments to the Board and ensuring that the process is formal, rigorous and transparent.
Membership of this Committee changed during theyear with the resignations of Andrew Palmer and ChrisPeacock at the 2013 AGM and the appointment of Margaret Ford.
I chair the Committee and the other members are Margaret Ford, Christopher Fisher, MarkRobertshaw and David Sleath.
During 2013, themain focus ofthe Committee was the appointment of two Executive Directors and succession planning.
NIGEL RICH CBE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 67 ACTIVITIES In September 2013, the Committee met to The Committee undertook a review of consider the process to appoint a successor executive search rms and appointed Zygos The Committee considered and made to Thom Wernink who will be retiring as a Partnership to conduct the search.
The remit recommendations to the Board in respect of: Non-Executive Director at the 2014 AGM, to Zygos Partnership is to review candidates t the appointments of Andy Gulliford and when he will have served approximately nine from a wide range of backgrounds to ensure Phil Redding as Executive Directors: years on the Board.
the best candidates, with the most appropriate skills, are selected.
Zygos Partnership do not t matters relating to succession planning, in The Committee discussed the size of the have any other connection with the Company.
particular the appointment of a successor Board and the balance of Executive and to Thom Wernink who will be retiring as a Non-Executive Directors.
It concluded that, DIVERSITY Non-Executive Director at the 2014 AGM, notwithstanding the appointment of two including the size and composition of the The Committee annually reviews the additional Executive Directors earlier in Board and the role prole for the new Companys policy on diversity.
The Board the year, there were sufficient independent Non-Executive Director: recognises the benets of diversity in its Non-Executive Directors to ensure there broadest sense and the value this brings to the was appropriate challenge at meetings.
t the appointment of an executive organisation in terms of skills, knowledge and The balance also met the requirements on search rm: experiences.
There is no current intention to Board composition as set out in the Code.
t the Companys diversity policy: increase the size of the Board solely to enable Accordingly, it recommended that the Board further women to be appointed: however, balance be retained and an independent t the results of the internal Committee when vacancies arise, the remit to the search Non-Executive Director should be appointed evaluation: and consultants will be to put forward candidates to succeed Thom Wernink.
t proposal for the re-appointment of Directors from a wide range of backgrounds to The Committee reviewed the current skills at the 2014 AGM.
ensure that the most appropriate candidates and experience of the Non-Executive are selected.
Directors and assessed the specic skills, SUCCESSION PLANNING AND The pace at which we improve diversity attributes and experience that would be APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS on the Board and in senior management required of the successor.
The Committee In early 2013, the Committee considered positions will depend, to some extent, on concluded that the candidate must have the appointment of Andy Gulliford, Chief the availability of suitable vacancies as well real estate experience, which could be from Operating officer, and Phil Redding, Chief as candidates.
The Board has a fundamental another, non-competing, listed property Investment officer, as Executive Directors.
obligation to ensure that the most suitable company, a property fund manager or from They had both worked for the Company for candidates are appointed to promote the managing a property portfolio for a large a number of years and had been promoted success of the Company as well as to comply non-property business such as a retailer or to these newly created management roles in with regulation on equal opportunities.
Individuals from a property November 2011, following the announcement agency background would also be considered At SEGRO we have had a good record of of the Companys new strategy.
They had and it would be a benefit for the candidate to promoting and appointing women to senior worked closely with the Board since accepting have international property experience.
roles, with women holding four out of the these new roles and had regularly attended 18 positions on our Senior Leadership Team.
Board meetings and given presentations on In preparing the role prole, the Committee We offer exible training and mentoring their areas of responsibility.
The Committee considered the benets that increased gender programmes to ensure that all our employees believed that working at Board level was diversity can bring.
Specically, it noted that as achieve their potential, taking account of their commensurate with the nature of their the current Non-Executive Directors were all diverse development needs.
We continue responsibilities and that they brought experienced at working with listed companies, additional property knowledge and it would consider candidates who had little plc experience to the Board.
Details about their Board-level experience, providing they had induction are set out on page 68. the appropriate skills and experience.
This was expected to widen the pool of female candidates who might be suitable for the role.
68 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT to be an equal opportunities employer and INDUCTION will maintain our merit based approach to recruitment.
Details of the gender diversity of the Board Induction programmes were arranged for and across the Company are set out on the three Directors who were appointed page 46. during the year with the intention of giving each of them a rounded view of APPRAISAL PROCESS AND the Groups activities and governance.
RE-APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS Margaret Ford joined the Board in January and had meetings with the Chairman Save for Thom Wernink, each of the Directors and Directors along with the Company will be proposed for election or re-election at Secretary and Group HR Director to the 2014 AGM.
understand the running of the Board and Following an appraisal process, the Committee its Committees.
She had meetings with the concluded that each of the Directors seeking Business Unit Directors and visited sites in election or re-election continues to make the UK and in Continental Europe to gain an effective contribution to the Board.
an understanding of the business.
Finally, The Senior Independent Director leads an meetings were arranged with the Groups annual performance review of the Chairman, principal external advisers.
while the Chairman leads the appraisal of Andy Gulliford and Phil Redding the Chief Executive.
The performance of the were appointed as Directors in May.
other Executive Directors is appraised by the As serving senior executives they did not Chief Executive, with feedback from the other need any induction into the business, Directors where appropriate.
but for each of them, this was their Details of the Non-Executive Directors letters first appointment to a plc Board and of appointment and their fees are set out in accordingly their induction was focused the Remuneration Report.
on their duties and responsibilities as Directors.
They had briengs from the Annually, the Senior Leadership Team Chairman and Company Secretary on assesses talent at all levels across the Group, corporate governance and the role of to ensure that we have effective Group the Board of a listed company and its and individual development plans in place.
They received training from The Executive Committee also considers the Companys lawyers on directors duties succession planning, so that for every and briengs from the corporate brokers senior role plans are in place for temporary, and auditors on their respective roles.
emergency cover and for longer term Before their appointment as Directors, promotions.
The Non-Executive Directors they were invited to attend a number of meet with the Chief Executive and the Group Board meetings which was an effective HR Director annually to consider the talent way of introducing them to the workings management and succession planning for of the Board.
the Executive Directors and senior executives below Board level.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
