Nomination committee report 59 The Committee keeps the composition of the Board under review, makes recommendations on its membership and monitors succession planning for directors.
It also evaluates Board and Committee performance.
Gordon McQueen is approaching nine years service as a director of the Company and will retire at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee considers that, following his retirement, the composition of the Board will remain appropriate for the Group and therefore no additional appointment is necessary at the present time.
Gordon McQueen is Chairman of the Audit Committee and our Senior Independent Director.
The Board will appoint Jill Little as Senior Independent Director, Sally Walden will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Dermot Mathias will become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
All these changes will take place at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Jonathan Lane Chairman of the Nomination Committee cOMMIttEE MEMbERS aND attENDaNcE MEMBER PoSiTioN NUMBER oF MEETiNGS ATTENDED Jonathan Lane Chairman from 8.2.
2013 Jill Little Member Gordon McQueen Senior Independent Director and Member Oliver Marriott Member Dermot Mathias Member Hilary Riva Member Sally Walden Member Attended Absent Jonathan Lane could have attended a maximum of two meetings.
John Manser could have attended a maximum of one meeting.
cOMMIttEE attENDEES by INVItatION ONLy attENDEES pOSItION Brian Bickell Chief Executive Penny Thomas Secretary to the Committee actIVItIES DURINg tHE yEaR STANDiNG MATTERS ADDiTioNAL MATTERS Succession planning for the Board and senior executives Change in composition of the Committee Board and Committee performance evaluation Recommendation of the appointment of the Senior Independent Director with effect from 7.2.
2014 Evaluation of the skills of the directors for re-election Recommendation of the appointment of the Chairman of Audit and Directors for re-election and election Remuneration Committees with effect from 7.2.
2014 Review of the annual committee report bOaRD pERFORMaNcE EVaLUatION - dynamics of the Board, including the engagement of the directors in the affairs of the Company and the environment in the boardroom, The Board engaged Lintstock Limited to undertake the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees, building on the - the Chairmans transition into the role and priorities for Board meetings, external evaluation conducted in 2011 and seeking to identify areas where - management of time, planning of the annual cycle of work and agenda, performance and procedures might be further improved.
- evaluation of the Boards oversight of operations, The scope of the review was agreed with the Chairman and the - management of risk, including the Boards review and testing of risk Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation.
management policies, Each director completed a questionnaire on the performance of the - composition and performance of the Committees of the Board, Board, its Committees and the Chairman.
The anonymity of - identification of the main priorities for the Board for the coming year.
respondents was ensured in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
Lintstock then produced a report mapping the The content for each subsequent evaluation will be designed to build performance of the Board against the results of the review in 2011, upon insights gained in the previous exercise to ensure that the which addressed the following areas: recommendations agreed in the review have been implemented and that year-on-year progress is measured.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE 60 Nomination committee report continued pOLIcy ON DIVERSIty DIREctORS StaNDINg FOR RE-ELEctION All directors will stand for re-election at the 2014 AGM with the All aspects of diversity, including gender, are considered at every level of recruitment.
All appointments to the Board are made on merit.
The exception of Gordon McQueen, who will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the meeting.
Boards policy was approved in September 2011 and states clearly that the Board seeks a composition with the right balance of skills and Following the annual board performance reviews of individual diversity to meet the demands of the business.
The Board does not directors, the Chairman considers: consider that quotas are appropriate for its representation and has that each director subject to re-election continues to operate as an therefore chosen not to set targets.
Gender diversity of the Board and effective member of the Board: and Company is set out below: that each director subject to re-election has the skill, knowledge and experience that enables them to discharge their duties properly and Female Male contribute to the effective operation of the Board.
The Board, on the advice of the Committee, therefore recommends the 27% re-election of each director standing for re-election.
Full biographical 52% 50% details of each director are available on pages 54 to 55. cHaNgE IN bOaRD ROLES At the conclusion of the 2014 AGM, following Gordon McQueens 73% retirement, the following changes in responsibilities will take place: 48% 50% Jill Little Resigns as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and appointed Senior Independent Director Board All Senior employees management Sally Walden Appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dermot Mathias Appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee SUccESSION pLaNNINg The Board comprises a team of four executive directors, three of whom have an average length of service with the Company of 25 years, complemented by non-executive directors who have wide business experience and skills as well as a detailed understanding of the Groups philosophy and strategy.
Continuity of experience and knowledge, particularly of the unique environment of Londons West End, within the executive team is particularly important in a focused, long-term business such as ours.
It is a key responsibility of the Committee to advise the Board on succession planning.
The Committee ensures that future changes in the Boards membership are anticipated and properly managed, and that in the event of unforeseen changes, management and oversight ofthe Groups business and long-term strategy will not be disrupted.
The Committee also addresses continuity in, and development of, theexecutive management team below board level.
