Corporate governance 56 Good corporate governance is essential for the proper management of all businesses, underpinning investor confidence in strategy and behaviour.
Your Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance throughout all aspects of our business, to ensure the UK Corporate Governance Code is applied consistently and comprehensively.
John Manser retired from the Board on 8 February 2013.
Until then, EFFEctIVENESS Iserved as executive Deputy Chairman and became non-executive composition of the board Chairman on that date.
The Nomination Committee keeps the composition of the Board under We continue to review the composition of the Board to ensure that it review and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment has the skills and balance required for the proper stewardship of of directors.
There are six independent non-executive directors, one thebusiness.
ofwhom has the role of Senior Independent Director.
The Boards composition meets the Codes requirements that at least half of the Dermot Mathias and Sally Walden joined the Board on 1 October 2012 Board is comprised of independent non-executive directors: as part of our succession planning for the Board.
They have brought a range of skills to the Board to complement the existing non-executive directors experience.
Gordon McQueen will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM having served on the Board for almost nine years.
On his retirement, the Board will appoint Jill Little as 4 6 1 Senior Independent Director.
She will hand over the role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to Sally Walden.
Dermot Mathias will take on the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Executive Independent Chairman directors non-executive directors Jonathan Lane Chairman Non-executive directors have a wide range of experience encompassing property, finance, fund management and retailing.
Each of the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, is considered to be cOMpLIaNcE WItH tHE Uk cORpORatE gOVERNaNcE cODE tHE independent.
The Boards policy on gender diversity is described in the cODE Nomination Committee Report on page 60.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the success of the The tenure of independent non-executive directors, as at 30 September business.
The strategy set by the Board, described in the Strategic 2013, is set out below: Report, is to invest in real estate in Londons West End.
The Board ensures that the business follows the strategy and that a financial and operational structure is in place to enable the Group to meet its goals.
Years Sally Walden 1 Set out below is an explanation of how the Group applied the principles of the Code, and in so doing, how it complied with its provisions.
Dermot Mathias 1 LEaDERSHIp Jill Little 3 The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring Hilary Riva 3 its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive has Oliver Marriott 4 responsibility for the management of the Groups day-to-day operations.
Gordon McQueen The Board has adopted a statement of the division of responsibilities 8 between the two roles and a schedule of matters reserved for the Board for decision.
Both documents are available on the Groups website.
Until 8 February 2013, Jonathan Lane had the role of executive Deputy Gordon McQueen will not stand for re-election at the 2014 AGM, having Chairman with specific responsibilities agreed by the Board, including served on the Board for almost nine years.
deputising for the Chairman and reviewing the Groups succession planning the board and its committees process.
This role ceased when he became non-executive Chairman.
The Board has three committees: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination.
As described in last years Annual Report, an extensive shareholder Terms of reference for these committees are on the Groups website.
consultation was undertaken prior to the decision by the Board to The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each committee.
Minutes appoint Jonathan Lane as non-executive Chairman as he had been of meetings are circulated to all directors.
Each member of the Audit Chief Executive from 1986 to 2011. and Remuneration Committees is an independent non-executive director.
As Jonathan Lane did not meet the criteria of independence set out in the Code at the time of his appointment, he has not been appointed to the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He is a member and Chairman of the Nomination Committee, as permitted bythe Code.
During the year, the non-executive directors met three times without executive directors present.
Reports from each committee follow on pages 59 to 81.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued 57 Set out below is attendance at the scheduled Board meetings during accOUNtabILIty the year ended 30 September 2013.
Additional meetings were held, as Internal control and risk management procedures required, to deal with routine and operational matters and attendance The directors are responsible for the Groups systems of internal controls at these meetings is not included in the table below.
and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the NUMBER oF business and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance MEETiNGS against material misstatement or loss.
Their adequacy and effectiveness MEMBER PoSiTioN ATTENDED are monitored through the risk management and audit processes which include financial and portfolio management audits.
Brian Bickell Chief Executive The principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Board, and how Simon Quayle Property director they are managed or mitigated, are summarised in the Strategic Report Tom Welton Property director on pages 48 and 49.
Chris Ward Finance director Executive directors and senior employees meet regularly to review the risks facing the business, the controls established to minimise those risks and Jonathan Lane Executive Deputy their effectiveness in operation.
The aim of these reviews is to provide Chairman to 8.2.
2013 reasonable assurance that material risks are identified with appropriate Non-executive Chairman action taken at an early stage to mitigate them.
2013 insurance is in place where appropriate.
Reports on these reviews are submitted during the year to the Audit Committee and the Board to enable John Manser Chairman to 8.2.
2013 each to assess the effectiveness of the process and ensure that the Group Gordon McQueen Non-executive director complies with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Oliver Marriott Non-executive director The key elements of the Groups procedures and internal financial control framework, which are monitored throughout the year, are: Dermot Mathias Non-executive director a The cl ose involvement of the executive directors in all aspects of Jill Little Non-executive director day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with employees Hilary Riva Non-executive director to review all operational aspects of the business.
The small number of employees ensures familiarity with all aspects of the business: Sally Walden Non-executive director b Cl early defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
The Board Attended has responsibility for strategy and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
This Absent includes acquisitions, disposals, major contracts and material Jonathan Lane could have attended a maximum of two meetings as executive Deputy Chairman and three meetings as non-executive Chairman.
refurbishment or development proposals above a specific monetary level: John Manser could have attended a maximum of two meetings.
c A c omprehensive system of financial reporting and forecasting.
training Group accounts are prepared quarterly and submitted to the The Chairman is responsible for the ongoing training of directors and Board.
Forecasts of profit, cash flow and bank facility covenant ensuring that they maintain the skills and knowledge required to fulfil compliance are prepared at least quarterly, approved by the Board their roles as director.
Training records are maintained by the Company and used to monitor actual performance: Secretary.
Each director is expected to maintain their professional skills.
Non-executive directors are expected to ensure they are familiar with d The Financ e Director has overall responsibility for the preparation the business through regular communication with executive directors of the financial information which is submitted to the Audit Committee and employees including making visits to the Groups portfolio.
The Audit Committee ensures that the internal controls in the financial reporting process are in place and are Information effective.
The Audit Committee Report is on pages 79 to 81: The Board is provided with timely information including financial data for Board meetings and receives regular updates between meetings.
e The da y-to-day management of the Groups portfolio is outsourced to three managing agents.
The Group monitors the performance of The Board may seek the advice and services of the Company Secretary each managing agent and has established extensive financial and who is responsible for ensuring compliance with Board procedures operational controls to ensure that each maintains an acceptable and advice to the Board on matters of corporate governance.
Directors level of service and that the information they provide is reliable.
may seek independent professional advice at the Groups expense in The Group also uses the services of an external consultant to review furtherance of their duties as directors.
periodically the operational processes and controls of each managing agent: and Evaluation The Board undertakes an annual review of its performance and the f A c omprehensive manual recording the key business processes performance of the Committees to ensure that each continues to operate and related controls across the whole of the Groups business is effectively.
An  review was undertaken during the maintained and regularly updated.
year and the results of this are described in the Nomination Committee Report on page 59.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE 58 Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee has not identified any material weaknesses Feedback from presentations and meetings is provided to the Board, inthe Groups control structure during the year.
together with any published analyst comment on the Group.
The Board confirms that the procedures to identify, evaluate and manage Our corporate website, together with the websites and social media the significant risks faced by the Group have been in place throughout the channels we use to promote our villages, are important sources of year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
information on the Group, explaining our philosophy, strategy, current activities and events across our villages.
gOINg cONcERN All presentations and discussions are conducted within the boundaries The Groups business activities, together with the factors affecting of the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the performance, financial position and future development are set out Financial Conduct Authority.
inthe Strategic Report on pages 9 to 51.
The financial position of the The Chairman met a number of shareholders during the year.
The Group including cash flow, liquidity, borrowings, undrawn facilities Chairman of the Remuneration Committee contacted shareholders anddebt maturity analysis is set out on pages 38 to 40. representing 50% of the Companys issued share capital as part of The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has aconsultation on the Groups remuneration policy.
The policy will be adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the tabled for approval at the 2014 AGM, in compliance with the new foreseeable future.
Therefore, they continue to adopt the going regulations on directors remuneration.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders as an REMUNERatION alternative channel of communication with the Board.
This information is contained in the remuneration reports on SHaRE capItaL StRUctURE pages61to 78.
Details regarding the share capital structure are given in the RELatIONS WItH SHaREHOLDERS DirectorsReport on page 82.
The Board places great importance on a regular dialogue with both shareholders who invest in our business, and contact with potential investors, in order to explain our philosophy and strategy.
Annual and interim results are presented to formal meetings of real estate analysts.
Copies of these presentations are available on our corporate website from the time of the meeting.
Analysts are encouraged to tour our portfolio with us, so they maintain a good understanding of our activities.
During the year ended 30 September 2013, the Chief Executive and other executive directors held over 150 meetings with UK and overseas institutional shareholders and potential investors.
These meetings comprised individual and group presentations and tours of our portfolio.
Our tours provide an opportunity to see our assets, understand our management initiatives, and also to meet members of our wider team.
In addition, during the year we conducted two portfolio tours with members of the UK Shareholders Association, which represents the interests of private investors.
