Audit committee report 79 The Committee reviews, and reports to the Board on financial reporting, internal control andrisk management, and reviews the performance, independence and effectiveness oftheexternal auditors.
This year, the Committee has focused on the changes to the narrative reporting and corporate governance disclosures in the Annual Report.
Aspart of this, the Board asked the Committee to advise on the statement by directors that the Annual Report, when read as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model andstrategy.
gordon McQueen Chairman of the Audit Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE MEMBER PoSiTioN NUMBER oF MEETiNGS ATTENDED Gordon McQueen Chairman and Senior Independent Director Jill Little Member Oliver Marriott Member Dermot Mathias Member Hilary Riva Member Sally Walden Member Attended Absent Gordon McQueen and Dermot Mathias are the members of the Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
COMMITTEE ATTENDEES BY INVITATION ONLY ATTENDEES PoSiTioN Penny Thomas Secretary to the Committee Chris Ward Finance Director PwC Independent auditors The auditors have the opportunity for discussion without management present.
actIVItIES DURINg tHE yEaR The Committee met three times during the year to deal with the following matters: STANDiNG MATTERS ADDiTioNAL MATTERS Re viewed published financial information including the year end results, Reviewed catastrophic event risk planning preliminary announcement, Annual Report, half year results, Half Year Reviewed cyber risk and security Report and the Interim Management Statements Appr oved non-audit assignment awarded to the external audit Reviewed management accounts firm Re viewed significant issues and areas of judgement with the potential to have a material impact on the financial statements, making any consequent recommendations to the Board Met with the Groups valuers to discuss the valuation process Reviewed key business procedures and controls Reviewed the risk and internal control framework Considered the appropriateness of the going concern assumption Monitored audit and non-audit fees Considered the independence of the auditors Re viewed the auditors performance and made a recommendation for the re-appointment of the Groups auditors by shareholders Planned for year end and reviewed the audit plan Reviewed the whistle-blowing policy Considered the need for an internal audit function Reviewed the Committees performance Reviewed the Committee Report Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE 80 Audit committee report continued RISk REVIEW pROcESS In addition, the Committee has considered a number of other judgements which have been made by management, none of which had a material As part of standing matters, the Committee and the Board reviewed impact on the Group results.
These include judgements concerning the business risks and internal controls framework twice during the the charge for equity settled remuneration, valuation of derivative year.
In addition, it considered the Groups catastrophic event risk financial instruments, claims in the ordinary course of business and planning and cyber risk security.
The Groups principal risks and bad debt provisions.
uncertainties are reported in the Strategic Report.
The Groups internal control and risk management procedures are set out in the Corporate Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not aware of Governance Report.
any material misstatements and the auditors confirmed that they had found no material misstatements in the course of their work.
FINaNcIaL REpORtINg aND SIgNIFIcaNt FINaNcIaL After reviewing the reports from management and following its JUDgEMENtS discussions with the auditors and valuers, the Committee is satisfied The Committee considers all financial information published in the that the financial statements appropriately address the critical annual and half year financial statements and considers accounting judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the amounts policies adopted by the Group, presentation and disclosure of the reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the financial information and, in particular, the key judgements made by processes used for determining the value of the assets and liabilities management in preparing the financial statements.
have been appropriately reviewed, challenged and are sufficiently The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2013 EXtERNaL aUDItORS Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable and whether itprovided the necessary information for shareholders to assess  LLP or its predecessor firms has been the Shaftesburys performance, business model and strategy.
It was Companys auditors since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2013 Annual Report is fair, October 1987.
The audit was tendered in 2010 and, under the Code, the balanced and understandable and included the necessary information Company will next need to tender the audit by 2020.
The Committee is as set out above.
It confirmed this to the Board, whose statement in monitoring developments in the area of audit tendering and best this regard is set out on page 86. practice and will keep the matter under review.
The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results and remuneration, is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
The and particularly those which involve a high level of complexity, external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners responsible judgement or estimation by management.
for the Group audit at least every five years and those responsible for the subsidiary audits at least every seven years.
The current lead audit The key area of judgement that it considered in reviewing the financial partner has been in position for three years.
There are no contractual statements was the valuation of the investment property portfolio.
obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
Whilst this is conducted by independent external valuers, it is one of the key components of the annual and half year financial results and is aWaRD OF NON-aUDIt aSSIgNMENtS tO tHE EXtERNaL aUDIt FIRM inherently subjective, requiring significant judgement.
As well as detailed The policy of the Committee is that non-audit assignments will not be management procedures and reviews of the process, members of the awarded to the external audit firm where there is a risk that their audit Committee met the Groups valuers without management present to independence and objectivity could be compromised and that, other discuss the valuations, reviewed the key judgements and discussed than in exceptional circumstances, non-audit fees should not exceed whether there were any significant disagreements with management.
This year, the Committee reviewed and challenged the 9.5% increase In addition, the award of any non-audit assignment to the Groups auditors in the valuation, the overall yield decrease and the 4.5% like-for-like in excess of 25,000 is subject to the prior approval of the Committee.
These were challenged with the valuers in order to agree One assignment was approved during the year, under this policy, for and conclude on the appropriateness of the assumptions applied.
the Groups corporate tax compliance work.
Furthermore, the auditors use specialists, who meet with the valuers, as part of their audit and report their findings and conclusions to the Committee.
The Board considered the valuation in detail at its meeting to approve the financial statements: as part of this the external valuers presented their findings.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE Audit committee report continued 81 aUDIt FEES aNNUaL aUDItOR aSSESSMENt Fees payable to the Groups auditors for audit and non-audit services On an annual basis, the Committee assesses the qualifications, are set out below: expertise and resources, and independence of the Groups external auditors, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
It does this through discussion and enquiry with the senior management team, 2013 2012 review of a detailed assessment questionnaire and confirmation from 000 000 the external auditor.
Audit of the parent companys annual 45 50  LLP has confirmed to the Committee that: accounts They have internal procedures in place to identify any aspects of Audit of the consolidated Group 83 89 non-audit work which could compromise their role as auditors and Total audit services 133 134 to ensure the objectivity of their audit report: Audit related assurance services The total fees paid by the Group during the year do not represent half year review 20 19 amaterial part of their firms fee income: and Other assurance services 6 They consider that they have maintained their audit independence - throughout the year.
Total assurance services 20 25 The Committee has completed its assessment of the external auditors Total audit and assurance services 153 159 for the financial period under review.
It has satisfied itself as to their qualifications, expertise and resources and remains confident that their objectivity and independence are not in any way impaired by Tax compliance services 36 56 reason of the non-audit services which they provide to the Group.
Tax advisory services 88 24 The Committee resolved to recommend to the Board that  LLP continue as auditors.
Services related to taxation 60 144  LLP are recommended for re-appointment Other non-audit services - 6 at the 2014 AGM.
Total fees related to taxation and INtERNaL aUDIt other non-audit services 144 66 In view of the focused nature of the Groups business, its modest size and relatively simple structure together with the regular independent reviews 303 Total fees 219 of the processes and controls of managing agents, the Committee recommended to the Board that, at the present time, there is no need Total fees related to taxation and other non-audit services represented to establish an internal audit function.
43% of the total fees for audit and assurance services 2012: 91%.
Tax advisory services represent various assignments carried out during the year, none of which were individually significant.
The audit fees for the Company and the Group are relatively low due primarily to the simple Group corporate structure.
