rePort oF the directors CONTINUED POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The Group made no political contributions during the The auditors,  LLP PwC, have year 2012: nil.
Charitable contributions within the UK indicated their willingness to continue in office and a amounted to 45,940 2012: 43,824 principally through resolution that they will be reappointed will be included rental concessions.
as ordinary business at the Annual General Meeting.
HEALTH AND SAFETY ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING We are committed to health and safety best practice as The 27th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be an integral part of our business activities and our drive held at Chester house, Kennington Park, 1-3 Brixton Road, for high performance.
London SW9 6DE on Thursday 25 July 2013 at 11.00am.
Accompanying this report is the Notice of the Annual The Groups policy is to provide and maintain safe and General Meeting, which sets out the resolutions to be healthy working conditions, equipment and systems of considered and approved at the meeting.
work for all its employees and to provide such information, training and supervision as they need for this purpose.
By order of the Board Whilst all employees of the Group have a responsibility CARMELINA CARFORA in relation to health and safety matters, certain staff have COMPANY SECRETARY been designated workplace responsibilities or other 11 June 2013 co-ordinating responsibilities throughout the Group, and ultimately, at Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has overall responsibility.
PURCHASING POLICIES AND PAYMENTS The Group tries, wherever possible, to procure from within its own customer base providing customers are competitive on price and quality.
The Groups policy is that, unless agreed otherwise at the time of the transaction, its own payments to others for goods and services received are made on average within a month of the date of invoice.
During the year to 31 March 2013 the Groups average payment term from the date of invoice was 29 days 2012: 33 days.
The Parent Company has made no trade purchases.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are set out in note 17 to the financial statements and in the Corporate Governance section of this report on pages 43 and 44.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware there is no relevant information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
34 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 R eview of operations 01-26 corPorate Governance 27-61 governance rePort Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE PRINCIPLES AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT GOvERNANCE CODE The Board is committed to maintaining high standards It is the Boards view that the Group has been fully of corporate governance and we support and apply the compliant with the Code throughout the year ended principles of good governance advocated by the UK 31 March 2013.
The application of the principles contained Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board works in the Code is described below.
Detailed reports on with honesty and integrity which it considers are vital to Directors remuneration and the Audit Committee can building a sustainable business for all of our stakeholders.
be found on pages 45 to 60 and pages 42 to 44.
The Board believes that implementing a robust CORPORATE GOvERNANCE STRUCTURE governance and corporate social responsibility framework The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic in which appropriate management structures, processes direction of the Group and the stewardship of its activities.
and safeguards are adopted and are transparently communicated to shareholders is essential in aiding The Board has a number of standing committees to sustainable long-term economic performance.
which specific responsibilities have been delegated and for which written terms of reference have been agreed.
LEADERSHIP CORPORATE GOvERNANCE STRUCTURE THE BOARD Establish the core values and standards which are implemented by Workspaces governance framework and operational activities.
Set Workspaces business strategy and business objectives in order to create long-term value for shareholders.
Ensure that the necessary resources are available to fulfil Workspaces strategic objectives.
Review and monitor performance against its business objectives and consider any associated risk factors which may adversely impact the business at large.
EXECUTIvE NOMINATIONS REMUNERATION AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Address Group-wide issues and initiatives.
Assess what new Oversee all aspects Ensure the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes.
skills, knowledge of remuneration for Review and approve capital expenditure, Ensure maintenance of a sound internal control and experience Executive Directors.
disposals and certain property acquisitions and risk management system.
are required on within established levels of authority.
Recommend Review and monitor the external auditors independence, the Board.
the Chairmans Monitor the operating and financial results objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process.
Establish and implement the policy on non-audit services.
Board candidates Consider Review the effectiveness of risk for appointment as remuneration policy management and control procedures.
Executive and and practices of Non-Executive the workforce.
Directors NEDs of the Group.
Consider succession policies and talent management.
SENIOR INvESTMENT EXTERNAL ADvISORS EXTERNAL FINANCE RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE RECRUITMENT AUDITOR COMMITTEE Assist the Executive Approve any Advise and assist Advise on all Audit and express Produce the Review and Committee in acquisition or the Committee in aspects of executive an opinion on the interim and annual identify risks the running of disposal of the search for remuneration and financial statements financial reports facing the Group.
day-to-day investment property appropriate aspects associated in accordance with and associated Ensure that assets.
International controls are in R eview and monitor Advise and assist Advise on Establish and Standards on place to review integration plans for Review and track the Nominations administration and monitor financial Auditing each issue raised.
Committee in the tax treatment processes of UK and Ireland.
increasing the of share option control and cash Provides reports Approve and Attend regular effectiveness of the schemes and management.
to the Audit monitor meetings with the development Board and ensure deferred share Committee.
Committee to continues to be a Approve and review performance major factor in and operational monitor asset profiling candidates.
Make recommendations to the Board for its approval of any business initiative with a value of more than 2m.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 corPorate governance rePort CONTINUED THE BOARD B usiness Plans and Budget: reviewing and approval The Board has a duty to promote the long-term success of budgets, business plans and performance: of the Company for its shareholders and is responsible redevelopment activity: approval of redevelopment for safeguarding their interests by establishing a robust activity and major developments: governance framework which is applied to all aspects F inancial reporting & controls: approval of the annual, of its business.
half yearly and interim management statement: internal controls: ensuring a sound system of internal The Board is collectively responsible for the performance control and risk management: review of crisis of the Group.
The Board will review and monitor strategic management plan: plans and objectives, approval of acquisition of investment Policy: reviewing and approving policy on key areas properties, disposals, financing arrangements and capital including sustainability objectives, health and safety expenditure and of the Groups systems of internal control, and the environment: governance and risk management.
Board membership: approval of Board appointments and ensuring adequate succession planning is in place: Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated corporate governance: undertaking a review of its by the Board to the Executive Committee.
own performance and that of its committees, the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and The Chairman promotes open discussion among the reviewing the governance framework in place.
Board members and encourages the Non-Executive Directors to constructively challenge strategic and The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability other business related debate in order to ensure that insurance which is reviewed annually.
the decisions adopted by the Board have been vigorously tested.
BOARD ATTENDANCE The Board normally meets at regular intervals during To assist the Board in effectively discharging its duties, the year.
Supplementary meetings are also held as and Directors receive relevant supporting information, which when necessary.
include but is not limited to the Groups financial results, performance reports and risk assessment reports.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, the attendance of The governance framework implemented by the Group Directors at Board meetings was as follows: ensures that open communication channels exist between Scheduled the Board, its principal committees and from within the Board Meetings 11 organisation.
Copies of committee minutes are distributed to all Directors and Committee Chairmen report back to Daniel Kitchen 10 the Board.
Furthermore, the Board routinely considers Jamie hopkins 11 safety, environmental, ethical and reputational issues in Graham Clemett 11 order to ensure that they are fully reflected in the risk Bernard Cragg 10 management process.
John Bywater 9 1 BOARD ACTIvITIES Maria Moloney 10 1 The full schedule of matters reserved for the Chris Girling 3 Board can be found on the Company website at 2 Damon Russell 0 www.
At least once a year the Board reviews the nature and scale of matters reserved Notes: 1.
Maria Moloney and Chris Girling were appointed to the Board for its decision.
on 22 May 2012 and 7 February 2013 respectively.
Since their appointment, both Maria Moloney and Chris Girling have During the past financial year, the Board has met for attended all Board meetings that they were eligible to attend.
scheduled Board meetings eleven times.
Damon Russell was appointed to the Board on 29 May 2013. reserved for the Board at those meetings include: Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, their strategy: the setting and monitoring of strategy, comments, as appropriate, are provided to the Board including the dividend policy: or Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
strategy: reviewing performance and implementation of the strategy by the Executive Directors: During the year, the Board held an annual strategy Property: reviewing the Groups property valuation: meeting at which it considered the future strategy of Financing: considering significant financing the Group.
arrangements: acquisitions and disposals: examine and approve potential acquisitions and disposals: 36 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 R eview of operations 01-26 Governance 27-61 Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 THE EXECUTIvE COMMITTEE Attendance at Committee meetings by Committee The Executive Committee consists of the Executive members during the year was as follows: Directors together with the Operations Director and Nominations Remuneration Audit Development Director.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee 3 Meetings 7 Meetings 4 Meetings Officer.
The purpose of the Committee is to facilitate and assist the Chief Executive Officer in managing the chairman day-to-day activities of the Group and addressing Daniel Kitchen 3 6 Group-wide issues and initiatives.
The Executive non-executive Committee is responsible for reviewing and approving directors capital expenditure: disposals and acquisitions of investment properties at certain levels as determined by Bernard Cragg 3 7 4 the Board: the monitoring of the operating and financial John Bywater 3 7 4 results against plans and budgets: and to ensure the 1 Maria Moloney 1 6 3 effectiveness of risk management and control procedures.
1 Chris Girling 2 1 The Executive Committee has its own terms of reference.
Notes: The Committee has met 18 times during the year ended 1.
The attendance of Maria Moloney and Chris Girling is based on the 31 March 2013. number of meetings held in which they were eligible to attend following their appointment as a formal member of the Committee.
An Investment Committee was also established during the year under review, again this comprises the Executive EFFECTIvENESS Committee and senior managers will be invited to attend as required.
NOMINA TIONS COMMITTEE The responsibilities of the Executive Committee members include: DANIEL KITCHEN Chairman Jamie hopkins, chief executive officer Strategic management: investor relations: acquisitions and disposals: health and safety: staff: equal opportunities: remuneration: and training and development.
graham clemett, chief Financial officer During the year, the Nominations Committee was chaired Finance: treasury: company secretarial: investor relations: by the Company Chairman, Daniel Kitchen and comprised and the Groups IT strategy.
all of the Non-Executive Directors.
The names of the members of the Committee are shown in the table above together with attendance at meetings.
The full terms of chris Pieroni, operations director reference of the Nominations Committee are available for Portfolio performance: asset management, marketing, inspection on the Companys website at professional services, brand and business development.
angus Boag, development director The Committee meets as required and recommends to the Board candidates for appointment as Directors of Planning consents: development of assets: valuations: the Company.
The Committee periodically assesses what disposals: sustainability: and environmental strategy.
new skills, knowledge and experience are required on the Board and, if necessary, the balance of independence.
If BOARD COMMITTEES appropriate, a candidate profile is recommended which is The Board has a number of standing committees, namely then used to brief recruitment consultants appointed by the Remuneration, Audit, and Nominations Committee, to the Committee to undertake the selection process.
Initial which specific responsibilities have been delegated and meetings are generally held by the Company Chairman for which written terms of reference have been agreed.
with prospective candidates, and a shortlist of individuals The terms of reference for the Remuneration, Audit and is then selected by the Chairman in conjunction with the Nominations Committee are available for inspection recruitment consultants, to meet with other Nominations on the Companys website.
Each of these Committees Committee members and the Executive Directors.
The is comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors Nominations Committee then meets and decides which of the Company who are appointed by the Board.
Board candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
members receive minutes of meetings of all the Boards committees and can request presentations or reports on areas of interest.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 corPorate governance rePort CONTINUED During the year, the Nominations Committee worked BOARD COMPOSITION on three Non-Executive Director appointments.
The The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital Committee appointed Spencer Stuart, an external search to the success of the Company.
The Board considers there consultancy, to assist it in identifying external candidates to be an appropriate balance between Executive and with diverse experience, one of whom with relevant Non-Executive Directors required to lead the business financial experience.
and safeguarding the interest of shareholders.
The Boards current composition of a Non-Executive Chairman, two The Committee met with a number of candidates and Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors following several meetings and discussions, the preferred meets the requirement of the code for at least half the candidates, Maria Moloney, Chris Girling and Damon Board, excluding the Chairman, to be independent Russell, met with each member of the Board prior to Non-Executive Directors.
In the Boards view, all of the their appointments on 22 May 2012, 7 February 2013 and current Non-Executive Directors are independent and 29 May 2013 respectively.
this is explained in more detail on pages 39 and 40.
The Non-Executive Chairman was considered by the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Board to be independent upon his appointment.
During the year, a number of changes have been made to JOHN BYWATER FRICS Non-Executive Director the Board.
On 1 April 2013, Jamie hopkins was appointed Chief Executive Officer following the retirement of harry Platt in March 2012.
Maria Moloney was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 22 May 2012 and Chris Girling joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 7 February 2013.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Remuneration Damon Russell was also appointed to the Board as Committee was chaired by John Bywater and comprises a Non-Executive Director on 29 May 2013. all of the Non-Executive Directors and the Company Chairman who was independent upon appointment.
The biographies of all members of the Board are set The names of the members of the Committee are shown out on pages 30 and 31.
The Nominations Committee in the Table on page 37, together with attendance at regularly reviews the composition of the Board to ensure meetings.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration that we have an appropriate and diverse mix of skills, Committee are available for inspection on the Companys experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
The following Table illustrates the balance of Non-Executive The Chief Executive Officer is, other than discussions Directors to Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, in respect of his own position, invited to attend and on the Board during the past year: contribute towards meetings.
BALANCE OF NON-EXECUTIvE AND Under its terms of reference the Committee meets at EXECUTIvE DIRECTORS least twice a year.
During the year under review the Committee met seven times.
It is responsible for all aspects of the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
31 March The Committee is also responsible for recommending 2013 the Chairmans remuneration to the Board in compliance 31 March with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
2012 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Further details of the Remuneration Committee, % remuneration policy and of the remuneration of each Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Director are set out in the Remuneration Report.
BACKGROUND AND EXPERIENCE OF THE BOARD The Board currently has eight Directors that bring considerable and diverse experience which enables them to make a valuable contribution to the Group.
Their experience, gained from varied commercial backgrounds, enables them to bring specific insights and make valuable contributions to the Company.
38 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 R eview of operations 01-26 Governance 27-61 Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 The following Table illustrates the collective business experience held by Board Directors, outside that acquired at Workspace Group PLC.
BOARD EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS Industry Experience Finance Property, Real Estate and Infrastructure Retail Media 01 23 4 5 Number of Directors The Board is actively considering diversity and believes Bernard Cragg, as the Senior Independent Director, is this to be an important factor when considering responsible for chairing the meeting of the Non-Executive appointments to the Board.
As part of the recruitment Directors for the purpose of evaluating the Chairmans process, the composition of the Board will be kept under performance and to provide an alternative communication review to ensure the best balance of skills and experience channel for shareholders if required.
Further details on our diversity policy can be found on page 44.
INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIvE DIRECTORS Following the 2013 AGM, Bernard Cragg will have served ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIvE as a Board Director for ten years.
The Board recognises Industry OFFICER AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR that his tenure will have reached a threshold at which his Experience The roles and responsibilities of the Non-Executive independence could be called into question by some Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Independent shareholders under the criteria set by the UK Corporate Other Director are separate and the division of responsibilities Governance Code.
Media The Board has considered the independence of all of The Chairman is primarily responsible for leadership of the Non-Executive Directors, and in particular that of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its Bernard Cragg.
The Board concluded that each of the Retail role and that it operates in the interests of shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of of the executive management and free from any business Finance the Non-Executive Directors and ensures all Directors or other relationship which could materially interfere rPr ec opert eive a y, ccurate, timely and clear information.
he is also with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All Real Estate and responsible for effective communication between the Non-Executive Directors act in a robustly independent Infrastructure Board and shareholders.
The Chairman is not involved manner and bring constructive challenge to Board 01 23 4 in an executive capacity in any of the Groups activities.
discussions and independent decision-making to their Board and Committee duties.
Number of Directors 2012 AGM During the year the Chairman held a number of meetings 31 March 2012 with the Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive The Board believes that no long-standing relationship Directors being present.
The discussions largely revolved which may be deemed to compromise independence around succession planning.
has been formed with any of the Executive Directors or senior executives at Workspace.
Furthermore, the The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the longest-standing professional relationship between Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Bernard Cragg and any existing Executive Directors Board for the financial and operational performance of is no more than six years.
the Group and the determination of the strategy and achievement of its objectives.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 corPorate governance rePort CONTINUED The Board accepts that some shareholders take a COMPANY SECRETARY robust view of independence, in particular the tenure Carmelina Carfora is the Company Secretary to the Board of Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is committed of Workspace.
her biography can be found on page 31. to actively refresh its membership and that of its Carmelina is responsible for ensuring good information committees in line with its succession planning process flows within the Board and its committees and between which has been evident during the last 12 months with senior management and Non-Executive Directors.
She is the appointment of Maria Moloney, Chris Girling and also responsible for advising the Board, through the Damon Russell as Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman on all governance matters.
As explained last year, Bernard Cragg will remain as a BOARD PERFORMANCE EvALUATION Board Director until the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
The Board annually evaluates its own performance and We have been mindful to ensure that a certain level of that of its Committees and Directors.
In 2012 the annual continuity is retained given the Board changes last year evaluation of the Board and Committee performance was and of course the experience and skills required in conducted through an independent external consultancy.
performing the role of Chair of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director.
however, the intention is that The results of last years evaluation were positive.
Chris Girling will succeed Bernard Cragg as Chairman of A number of actions were identified to improve and the Audit Committee in due course given his background, maintain the effectiveness of the Board.
The actions, knowledge and in-depth experience within finance which together with progress are identified below: are essential in order to perform the role of Chair of the Audit Committee.
2012 BOARD EvALUATION We continue to review and monitor Board and Board actions Progress Committee composition against our skills and experience Annual Board strategy strategy and risk requirements.
Actions from strategy day INDUCTION, TRAINING AND DEvELOPMENT formally recorded in a plan A tailored induction programme is provided for each new which is monitored and Director.
Overall, the aim of the induction programme is updated by the Board.
to introduce new Directors to the Groups business and its governance arrangements.
Such inductions typically Risk Management process include meetings with senior management, site visits and reviewed and monitored.
presentations of key business areas and other relevant succession planning and Two Non-Executive documentation.
In addition, Directors are encouraged implementation Directors appointed to to update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Board during the year the Group by attending external seminars and briefings, under review.
through participation at meetings and through visits to skills, experience and Two Non-Executive estates, meetings with senior management and advisers.
performance Directors appointed We recognise that our Directors have a diverse range of with diverse skills and experience, and so we encourage them to attend external experience, one with seminars and briefings that will assist them individually.
in-depth financial skills The Directors are regularly updated on new legislation in order to assume the and corporate governance issues as they arise.
Directors role of Chair of the Audit have access to independent professional advice at the Committee in due course.
Companys expense where they judge this to be necessary communication Non-Executive Directors to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
This is in have continued their addition to the access that every Director has to the interaction with the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who Executive Committee is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board members and visited procedures are complied with.
sites to gain an enhanced understanding of the challenges and opportunities they face in the business environment.
Additional Board Meetings have also been included in the Board timetable.
40 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 t n e m p y o g l e e t v a e r D t S g f n o i o g n O C R o i r s p d k C o n r o a g a M n t n n t a e i r o n n o i G i t l a a o s c g r v u T a e e d n r n m n d I a e n n c t e R eview of operations 01-26 Governance 27-61 Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 For the year under review, the process comprised the The review includes the assessment of individual Directors Company Secretary issuing detailed questionnaires performance, which in the case of the Executive Directors covering the Board and its Committees to Board is undertaken as part of the wider performance appraisal members.
The questionnaires covered those areas as process applied to staff across the Group.
detailed in the diagram below: The review of the Chairmans performance is undertaken by the Non-Executive Directors, led by Bernard Cragg in BOARD AND COMMITTEE EvALUATION his capacity as the Senior Independent Director, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Following the review, Bernard Cragg met with the Chairman to discuss his performance.
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Articles of Association of the Group require that Directors should submit themselves for election at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter for re-election at least every three years.
however, at the 2011 AGM the Group had adopted the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010 in relation to Directors appointments and in particular the annual re-election of all Directors.
Therefore, in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors will retire at the AGM and being eligible, offer themselves up for election and re-election.
The Board considers that all of the Directors have the necessary skills and experience needed to effectively lead the business.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are considered to bring independent objectivity in order to safeguard and promote the interest of shareholders.
The Board has considered the outcome of the Board effectiveness review as well as the performance of each individual Director, including how they operate The responses to the questionnaires were collated as a collective in fulfilling their duties on the Board or independently by the Company Secretary who prepared as members of the Boards Committees.
The Board reports for the Company Chairman and the Chairman of has accepted the recommendations provided by the each committee.
These reports were discussed at the Nominations Committee and is of the opinion that the relevant Committee meetings and the Board discussed Directors seeking re-election at the AGM have continued the results at its meeting in March 2013. to give effective counsel and commitment to the Company and accordingly should be reappointed by The results of this years evaluation were positive.
the Groups shareholders at the upcoming AGM.
The following themes were noted for action: Jamie hopkins and Graham Clemett have service O ngoing review of Board composition and succession contracts and details can be found on page 49. planning: C ontinued focus on testing and development of None of the Non-Executive Directors have service strategy: contracts.
C onscious of the ever-changing legislation and regulations, presentations and updates will be made The appointment of Daniel Kitchen may be terminated during the course of the year on both potential and by either he or the Company giving six months notice impending legal and regulatory changes across areas in writing.
of the Groups operations to ensure the potential impacts on the Group are appropriately addressed The appointment of John Bywater and Bernard Cragg on a timely basis.
may be terminated by any one of them or the Company giving six months notice in writing.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 M e s a l c l i n a n R k n a e e S l i d g r a f i t e o E i n p o x e g x n t c s e I E n h r n a i n d t l p a e a n s l r B a n a l n g o i n s i s n e n c a c l u P S corPorate governance rePort CONTINUED Maria Moloneys appointment may be terminated by During the year, the Committee met in private sessions either the Company or by her giving three months with its external auditors,  LLP notice in writing.
PwC, in the absence of management at least twice.
Chris Girling was appointed as a Non-Executive MEETINGS Director on 7 February 2013 and was invited to join the Meetings of the Audit Committee coincide with key Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
The he therefore stands for election at the forthcoming Committee Chairman reports the outcome of meetings Annual General Meeting.
Mr Girlings appointment may to the Board.
During the year under review the Committee be terminated by either the Company or by him giving met four times.
three months notice in writing.
The Committee has a rolling agenda that ensures that Damon Russell was appointed as a Non-Executive the Committee receives appropriate information far Director on 29 May 2013. he also stands for election at enough in advance to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr Russells This includes not only information from management appointment may also be terminated by either the but also detailed reports from the external auditor.
Company or by him giving three months notice in writing.
The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive Biographies for the Directors can be found on pages Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other members 30 and 31. of the senior management team together with senior representatives of the external auditor are invited to attend all or part of meetings as appropriate.
ACCOUNTABILITY REvIEW OF THE YEAR AUDIT COMMITTEE During the year the Committee was responsible for reviewing, and reporting to the Board, on a range of BERNARD CRAGG BSC ACA matters including: Senior Independent Non-Executive Director T he interim and annual financial statements: T he appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices: The valuations of the Groups property portfolio: T he review of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: T he external auditors management letter: The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial T he Groups compliance with REIT legislation: reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of The Companys approach to compliance with a sound internal control and risk management system, legislation and regulations, including arrangements details of which are described on pages 43 and 44. for staff to raise concerns in confidence: The full terms of reference for the Audit Committee are T he relationship with the external auditor, the available for inspection on the Companys website at external audit process, the audit and non-audit fee www.
and independence: T he need and use for an internal audit function: and The Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors, T he review of fraud risk.
except the Chairman, and is chaired by Bernard Cragg.
The Group audit partner from the external auditor attends Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an the Committee Meeting at least twice a year.
internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Committee.
however, management instructs the Maria Moloney, was appointed as a member on 31 May undertaking of a programme of financial, operational and 2012.
It was stated last year that the Company intended health and safety internal audits at its estates.
These are to recruit an additional Non-Executive Director with the carried out by qualified senior head Office personnel on necessary skills and experience required to become a a rotational basis.
Significant findings are reported to the member of the Audit Committee.
Girling was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee.
Chris Girling was EXTERNAL AUDITORS previously Group Finance Director of Carillion PLC.
The Audit Committee recognises that the independence of the Groups external auditor is of paramount Bernard Cragg, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, importance to shareholders and the Audit Committee is a Chartered Accountant and the Board is satisfied terms of reference establish a process for monitoring that he has the required and relevant financial and approving the nature and the level of related fees experience.
The Audit Committee collectively has the for non-audit services e. g. accounting, tax or due skills and experience required to fully discharge its diligence work paid to the Group external auditors.
duties, and it has access to independent advice at the Companys expense.
42 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 R eview of operations 01-26 Governance 27-61 Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 The Group uses the external auditor for relevant financial 4.
A familiarity threat this is where, because of a too work for a variety of reasons, including their knowledge long or too close a relationship, the external auditors of the Group, the audit-related nature of the work and independence is affected.
the need to maintain confidentiality.
T he Committee will prohibit the hiring of former At each meeting, the Committee will be advised of any employees of the external auditor associated with the significant non-audit work awarded to the external auditor Groups audit into management roles with significant since the previous meeting and the related fees.
At the influence within the Group within two years following annual May meeting, the Committee receive a report of their association with the audit, unless the Chairman of fees, both audit and non-audit from PwC for the past the Audit Committee gives prior consent.
The Committee has considered in detail the Committee will be advised of any new hires caught by nature and level of non-audit services provided by PwC this policy.
however, there have been no instances of and the related fees.
The Committee may challenge and this occurring.
In addition, PwC will rotate their lead in some instances refuse proposals in respect of non-audit audit partner every five years.
work to be performed by the external auditor.
The Committee will monitor on an on-going basis the relationship with the external auditor to ensure its In addition, the Committee will assess the threats of self continuing independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
review by the external auditors, self interest, advocacy and familiarity these are set out below and considered Fees paid to PwC can be found in note 2 on page 71. in relation to PwCs services: ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT 1.
A self review threat this is where, in providing a In its financial reporting to shareholders and other service, the PwC audit team could potentially evaluate interested parties, by means of Annual and half-Yearly the results of a previous PwC service.
Financial Reports, Interim Management Statements and other periodic statements, the Board aims to present a The Committee specifically will not allow the auditors to: balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
D o anything that is a management responsibility e. g. such as setting performance targets or INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT determining employees actual compensation.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups Provide accounting or book-keeping services.
system of internal control and for reviewing its Prepare financial statement disclosure items.
The Board has reviewed the Groups system of controls including financial, operational, 2.
A self interest threat where a financial or other compliance and risk management on a regular basis interest of an individual or PwC will inappropriately throughout the year.
however, any such system can influence an individuals judgement or behaviour.
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The Committee will specifically perform the following: The Group has established a risk management framework If the external auditor is to be considered for the and procedures necessary to enable the Directors to provision of non-audit services, their scope of work report on internal controls in compliance with the Code.
and fees must be approved in advance by the Chief The risk management procedures involve the analysis, Financial Officer and the Committee Secretary and, evaluation and management of the key risks to the Group.
in the case of fees in excess of 50,000 for a single project, by the Committee or if approval is required The other key elements of the Groups system of internal before the next meeting, by the Committee Chairman.
control include: For larger assignments in excess of 100,000 this would involve a competitive tender process unless A c omprehensive system of financial reporting: there are compelling commercial or timescale reasons An organisational and management Board structure to use the external auditor or another specific with clearly defined levels of authority and division accountancy firm.
of responsibilities: It does not accept significant contingent fee A R isk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief arrangements with the external auditors.
Executive Officer and is attended by representatives from senior management and operational staff.
An advocacy threat this is where PwC or PwC Risk Committee meets monthly and formally reports personnel promote an audit clients position to the to the Audit Committee twice a year: extent where PwCs objectivity as auditor is A p rogramme of site audit visits, covering a significant compromised.
proportion of the sites each year.
Although the Group does not have a dedicated internal audit function, an The Group will not use PwC in an advocacy role.
operational, finance and health and safety audit are carried out at the estates by qualified head Office personnel.
The results of the audits are reported to and reviewed by the Risk and Audit Committees and appropriate action taken as required.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43
