Corporate Governance Statement The Board is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance and takes its role very seriously in adopting and maintaining good governance.
composition of the Board includes the Principles of good governance The Board appropriate skills balance, experience, independence and knowledge of the The adoption and maintenance of good During the year ended 31 March 2013, the business and that the appointment of governance is the responsibility of the Board consisted of an Executive Chairman, a Non-Executive Director should reflect Board as a whole.
This report, together with a Chief Executive, two other full time a need to add complementary skills the Audit Committee Report, on pages 32 Executive Directors, one part time Executive and experience to the Board and not to 34 and the Remuneration Committee Director and three Non-Executive Directors.
be driven by a requirement to match Report, on pages 36 to 34, describes how All the Non-Executive Directors are deemed the number of Executive Directors.
The the Board applies the principles of good to be independent.
Board will continue to keep this under governance and best practice as set out in review, also with diversity in mind, and the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code The Board during the year met to direct and assess the needs and requirements of the Code which can be found on the control the overall strategy and operating the business as it develops.
Financial Reporting Councils website www.
them to carry out these responsibilities all B.
6 requires the Company to undertake Directors have full and timely access to all a rigorous annual evaluation of its relevant information and the Board has held Statement of Compliance Board, committees and individual meetings at various operating sites so that directors.
In the current year The Board the Directors can review the operations of The Directors consider that the Company decided that an external evaluation those particular sites.
All Directors have has, during the year ended 31 March 2013, should be undertaken.
Whilst this allocated sufficient time to the Company to complied with the requirements of the Code process was commenced prior to the discharge their responsibilities effectively.
other than with Code provisions: year end, the actual results will not be known until around July 2013 and will B.
1.2 as the number of independent be reported on in the Companys 2014 Non-Executive Directors was less than Annual Report.
half the Board, excluding the Chairman.
It is the Boards belief that the current The Board covers key decision areas of the Groups affairs including: acquisition and divestment policy: strategy: internal control and risk management policies: approval of budgets: major capital expenditure projects: monitoring of the Groups profit and cash flow performance: and general treasury policy.
The UK Corporate Governance Code stipulates there should be a clear division of responsibility at the head of the company between the running of the Board and the executive responsible for running the company business.
The Chairman was responsible for: the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role: ensuring all directors were able to maximise their contributions to the Board: providing strategic insight from his long business experience in the industry and with the Company: providing a sounding board for the Chief Executive on key business decisions and challenging proposals where appropriate: and meeting with major shareholders on governance matters and being an alternate point of contact for shareholders on other matters.
The Chief Executive was responsible for: leading the business and the rest of the management team, on a day to day basis, in accordance with the strategy agreed by the Board: leading the development of the Groups strategy with input from the rest of the Board: leading the management team in the implementation of the Groups strategy including new build decisions: and bringing matters of particular significance or risk to the Chairman for discussion and consideration by the Board if appropriate.
28 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Upon appointment, all Directors undertake the business, continues to operate meeting Board, through the Chairman, on all a formal introduction to all the Groups around six times a year to discuss issues governance matters.
The appointment activities and are also provided with the affecting the trading side of the business and removal of the Company Secretary is opportunity for on-going training to ensure including the development of various determined by the Board as a whole.
that they are kept up-to-date on changes projects and approving non-strategic capital in relevant legislation and the general expenditure.
The Executive Committee Non-Executive Directors business environment, including the reports back to the Board.
review of relevant literature and attending The Non-Executive Directors bring external courses.
Procedures are in place The Board has completed its annual review experience and complementary skills to for Directors to seek both independent of the register relating to potential conflicts the Board, aid constructive debate and advice, at the expense of the Company, and of interest with its Directors and confirm challenge during Board discussions and the advice and services of the Company that no such conflicts exist.
help develop strategy with an independent Secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the An Executive Committee, consisting of the Board for ensuring that Board procedures Executive Directors and senior executives of are complied with and for advising the The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors to be independent and has accepted the following definition of an independent director: has not been an employee of the Company or Group within the last five years: within the last three years has not had a material business relationship with the Company either directly, or as a partner, shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such a relationship with the Company: has not received additional remuneration from the Company apart from a directors fee, and does not participate in the Companys share option or performance-related pay scheme, or as a member of the Companys pension scheme: has no close family ties with any of the Companys advisors or senior employees: holds no cross-directorships or has no significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: does not represent a significant shareholder: and has not served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
The UK Governance Code requires listed companies to undertake a rigorous annual evaluation of the performance of their Board, committees and of individual directors.
The Code implies that an evaluation of the Board should be externally facilitated at least every three years and therefore after carrying out a review of external advisors the Board has appointed EquityCommunication Limited, an independent business that has no other relationship with the Company, to perform an external evaluation of the Cranswick Board and its committees.
This process has commenced prior to the year end, and the results are expected to be finalised around July 2013.
The findings of the review will be reported in the 2014 Annual Report.
The Chairman has evaluated the performance of individual Directors.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet, without the Chairman present, in order to appraise his performance.
Directors biographies and membership of the various Committees are shown on page 24.
The formal terms of reference for the Board Committees together with the terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Board Number Of Board Meetings 10 Martin Davey - Chairman 10 Adam Couch - Chief Executive 10 Mark Bottomley - Finance Director 10 Jim Brisby - Sales and Marketing Director 10 Bernard Hoggarth - Commercial Director 10 John Worby - Senior Independent Director & 10 Chairman Of the Remuneration Committee Steven Esom - Independent Director and 10 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Patrick Farnsworth - Independent Director 10 and Chairman of the Nomination Committee All Directors attended the Annual General Meeting Directors biographies and membership of the various Committees are shown on page 24 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 29 Board Committees Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises of the three independent Non-Executive Directors chaired by John Worby, the Groups Senior Independent Director, who is a chartered accountant, has considerable recent relevant financial experience and has spent many years in the food industry.
The Audit Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring the integrity of financial statements and related announcements and all aspects of internal control.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year: two of these meetings involve a review of the Groups interim and full year financial statements.
Audit Committee Total Number of Meetings 3 John Worby 3 Steven Esom 3 Patrick Farnsworth 3 The work, responsibilities and governance of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 32 to 34.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the three independent Non-Executive Directors chaired by Steven Esom.
Martin Davey attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation and in an advisory capacity.
No Director attends any part of a meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed.
The Executive Directors determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive remuneration and determines, on behalf of the Board, the other terms and conditions of service for each Executive Director.
It determines appropriate performance conditions for the annual cash bonus and long term incentive schemes and approves awards and the issue of options in accordance with the terms of those schemes.
The Remuneration Committee also, in consultation with the Chairman, monitors the total individual remuneration package of senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments and share option and other share awards.
The Remuneration Committee has access to advice from the Company Secretary and from external advisors who provide detailed analysis of executive remuneration in comparable companies.
30 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance apart from Patrick Farnsworth who will Shareholders Remuneration have completed 9 years on 1 August Committee 2013 as an independent Non-Executive The Board attaches great importance Total Number of Director.
to maintaining good relationships with Meetings 4 all Shareholders who are kept informed of significant Company developments.
The Board has set out in the Notice of Steven Esom 4 Presentations are made by the Chief Annual General Meeting their reasons for John Worby 4 Executive, the Finance Director and the Sales supporting the re-election of the Directors and Marketing Director, to analysts and Patrick Farnsworth 4 at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
institutional Shareholders on the half year Their biographical details on page 24 and full year results and to discuss Company demonstrate the range of experience and Details of the Committees current direction.
A similar presentation is made to skills which each brings to the benefit of the remuneration policies are given in the shareholders attending the Annual General Company.
Remuneration Committee Report on pages Meeting.
Significant matters relating to the 36 to 44. trading or development of the business are The Chairman of the Nomination Committee disseminated to the market by way of Stock will attend the Annual General Meeting The Chairman of the Remuneration Exchange announcements.
to respond to any Shareholder questions Committee will attend the Annual General that might be raised on the Committees Meeting to respond to any Shareholder The views of Shareholders expressed during activities.
questions that might be raised on the meetings with them are communicated Committees activities.
by the Chairman or the Chief Executive, as Risk Management and appropriate, to the Board as a whole, and Internal Control Nomination Committee through this process the Boards Executive and Non-Executive Directors are able to gain a sound understanding of the views and The Board of Directors has overall The Nomination Committee is chaired concerns of the major Shareholders.
The responsibility for the Groups system of by Patrick Farnsworth and includes John Chairman, Chief Executive or the Finance internal control, which safeguards the Worby, Steven Esom and Martin Davey.
Director discusses governance and strategy Shareholders investment and the Groups with major Shareholders from time to time.
assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee meets at least once Other Directors are available to meet the Such a system can only provide reasonable a year and reviews the structure, size Companys major Shareholders if requested.
and not absolute assurance against material and composition of the Board and is The Senior Independent Director is available misstatement or loss, as it is designed to responsible for considering and making to listen to the views of Shareholders, manage rather than eliminate the risk of recommendations to the Board on new particularly if they have concerns which failure to achieve business objectives.
appointments of Executive and Noncontact with the Chairman has failed Executive Directors.
It also gives full to resolve, or for which such contact is The Group operates within a clearly defined consideration to succession planning in the inappropriate.
Principles of corporate organisational structure with established course of its work, taking into account the governance and voting guidelines issued by responsibilities, authorities and reporting challenges and opportunities facing the the Companys institutional Shareholders lines to the Board.
The organisational Group and what skills and expertise are and their representative bodies are structure has been designed in order to therefore needed on the Board and from circulated to and considered by the Board.
plan, execute, monitor and control the senior management in the future.
The Board also welcomes the attendance Groups objectives effectively and to ensure and questions from Shareholders at the that internal control becomes embedded in Nomination Annual General Meeting which is also the operations.
Committee attended by the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
As noted in the Audit Committee Report on Total Number of Meetings 3 pages 32 to 34, the Audit Committee has By order of the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the internal Patrick Farnsworth 3 control and risk management systems and John Worby 3 reported to the Board that it was not aware of any significant deficiency, or material Steven Esom 3 weakness, in the system of internal control Martin Davey 3 and that the business maintains a sound risk management control system.
All appointments are made on individual Malcolm Windeatt merit regardless of gender, ethnicity or The Board confirms that the key on-going Company Secretary religious beliefs: the principle concern of processes and features of the Groups 20 May 2013 the Group is to ensure all candidates are of internal risk based control system have appropriate experience, ability and fit for been fully operative throughout the year the role.
and up to the date of the Annual Report being approved.
Appointment to the Board Financial Reporting During the year the Committee The Group prepares annual budgets that acknowledged that Patrick Farnsworth are agreed by the Board.
Operational will complete 9 years as an Independent management are required to report to Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2013 the Board on a monthly basis on financial and therefore arranged for an independent performance including trading results, advisor, Norman Broadbent, to short list a balance sheet, cash flows and related key number of candidates for interview.
Forecasts are carrying out the exercise the Board has updated on a half yearly basis together selected Kate Allum as an Independent Nonwith information on key risk areas.
The Executive Director for Cranswick plc and she use of a standard reporting pack by all is expected to join the Board on 1 July 2013.
Group entities ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent Re-election way which facilitates the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
All directors will be standing for reelection at the Annual General Meeting Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 31
