Audit Committee Report John Worby - Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, and related announcements, the effectiveness of the risk control procedures and internal control systems which are important to both management and to the shareholders.
The Audit Committee Members of the Audit Committee consist of the three independent Non-Executive Directors, John Worby, Steven Esom and Patrick Farnsworth.
The Committee is chaired by John Worby, who has considerable recent relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee is required to meet at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to the Group financial calendar.
The Audit Committee invites the Chairman, the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller, together with the external auditors and internal audit to attend its meetings.
The Company Secretary also attends the meetings as secretary to the Committee.
Both the external auditors and internal audit have the opportunity to access the Committee, without the Executive Directors being present, at any time, and the Committee formally meets with both the external auditors and internal audit independently at least once a year.
Summary of the Audit Committees principal responsibilities: Reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Groups interim and full year financial statements.
Reviewing the Groups accounting policies.
Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Reviewing the internal audit plan and internal audit reports on accounting, internal financial and other control matters.
Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors including the effectiveness, scope, cost and objectivity of the external audit.
Recommending the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
Reviewing the independence of the external auditors, including considering the level of non-audit work carried out by them.
Reviewing and monitoring the Companys procedures in relation to the Companys Whistle Blowing and Anti-Bribery policies.
The Committee annually reviews its terms of reference and makes recommendations to the Board for any appropriate changes.
The current Terms of Reference include all the relevant aspects set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and will be available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
The work of the Committee in the last year and up to the date of this report is set out below and elsewhere in this report.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Audit Committee is responsible for keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board, following each Audit Committee meeting, on issues relating to internal controls and risk management.
The Group has a whistle blowing policy in place, including an independent help line, which includes arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and other matters.
The policy, and any whistle blowing incidents, are reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
Key on-going processes include: a system to identify, evaluate and manage business risk as detailed below and in the Group Operating and Financial Review on page 11: maintaining a strong control environment: formulating and reviewing policies and procedures in relation to whistle blowing and compliance with the Bribery Act an information and communication process: and a monitoring system and a regular review of effectiveness by the Audit Committee.
A Group Risk Committee monitors the risk areas within the Group and reports directly to the Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and includes other senior executives covering the commercial, operational, technical, information technology, engineering, health and safety and financial functions of the business.
Internal audit and the Company Secretary also attend these meetings.
The team identified the key business risks within their functions, considered the financial and operational implications and assessed the effectiveness of the control processes in place to mitigate these risks.
A summary of the findings has been reported to and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and this, along with the Boards direct involvement in the strategies of the businesses, investment appraisal and the budgeting process, enabled the Audit Committee to review and report to the Board on the effectiveness of internal control.
32 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Following its review the Audit Committee reported to the Board that it was not aware of any significant deficiency, or material weakness, in the system of internal control and that the business maintains a sound risk management control system.
Financial Reporting The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed reports from the Group Finance Director and the external auditors on matters of significance in relation to the financial statements, including key estimates and judgements made in preparing the statements.
They also reviewed the content of the 2013 Report and Accounts, and the 2012 Interim Report, to ensure that shareholders are provided with the necessary information needed to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Significant issues considered during the year included: the fair value of acquisitions during the year, particularly in relation to the Kingston Foods acquisition: the carrying value of goodwill and whether there has been any impairment.
This included reviewing the position in relation to the Groups sandwich business following the impairment of goodwill made last year: assessing whether there was sufficient banking head room to support a going concern concept: the valuation of the closed defined benefit pension scheme: the impairment of the value of any assets held: and the review of accruals and provisions in respect of liabilities not settled at the year end date.
The Audit Committee, after discussions with the external auditors, accepted that these issues had been correctly treated in the financial statements which taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
accounting or other financial services, Internal Audit External auditors executive or management roles or functions, and remuneration consultancy.
In addition, Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys The Audit Committee is responsible the Chairman of the Audit Committee is auditor since 1972 following the takefor monitoring the performance and consulted prior to awarding to the external over of a local Hull based practice.
The effectiveness of the Companys internal auditors any non-audit services in excess of Audit Committee assesses annually the audit activities.
The Groups internal audit 20,000. qualification, expertise, resources and function includes Company employees independence of the auditor and the supported by Grant Thornton, which Ernst & Young LLP have confirmed that they effectiveness of the audit process.
The provides specialist advice and resource have adequate policies and safeguards in assessment as to the effectiveness was where necessary.
The role of internal audit place to ensure that auditor objectivity and conducted during the year through an is to advise management and to report to independence is maintained.
external audit questionnaire with senior the Audit Committee on the extent to which finance management, the results of which systems of internal control are effective were reviewed and discussed by the Audit and to provide independent and objective During the year the Audit Committee Committee.
assurance that the processes by which reviewed and considered the following significant risks are identified, assessed and factors in assessing the objectivity and The Audit Committee is also responsible managed are appropriate and effectively independence of Ernst & Young LLP: for recommendations for the appointment, applied.
reappointment or removal of the external i.
The auditors procedures for auditors.
The Committee periodically The Audit Committee reviewed and maintaining and monitoring reviews the tendering of the external audit approved the annual internal audit independence, including those to function, the last such tender being in plan and received regular updates on ensure that the partners and staff have 2008.
The Committee also approves the progress in meeting the plan objectives no personal or business relationships terms of engagement and remuneration of at each of its meetings during the year.
with the Group, other than those in the the external auditors, and monitors their The internal audit approach is risk based normal course of business permitted independence.
and takes into account the overall Group by UK ethical guidance.
risk framework, as well as risks specific iii.
The auditors policies for the rotation to individual operations.
The plan set out Auditor independence of the lead partner and key audit at the beginning of the current year was personnel.
Internal audit findings together The Group meets its obligations for Audit Partner was selected by Ernst with responses from management were maintaining an appropriate relationship & Young in 2012 due to the previous considered by the Audit Committee and with the external auditors through the senior audit partner having held office where necessary challenged.
The Audit Audit Committee, whose terms of reference for 5 years.
The current senior manager Committee also reviewed progress by include an obligation to consider and has been in place since 2009. management in addressing the issues keep under review the degree of work iii.
The nature of non-audit work identified on a timely basis.
The Audit undertaken by the external auditor, undertaken during the year and its Committee undertook its annual review of other than the statutory audit, to ensure approval in accordance with the Audit the extent and effectiveness of the work of such objectivity and independence is Committees guidelines for ensuring the internal audit function.
There is an established policy independence.
in place concerning the types of non-audit services the external auditors should not carry out to avoid compromising their independence and these include internal Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 33 Details of the non-audit work and fees paid during the year are set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
The work undertaken during the year and the safeguards considered by the Committee to ensure independence included the following: i. Ernst & Young LLP provide tax advice.
Their audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the use of a separate tax partner.
Ernst & Young LLP were engaged to advise the Company on a number of corporate transactions.
Following a tender, for this type of work, carried out in the previous year, and given the nature of the work required in 2012 13 it was, after careful consideration, assessed that Ernst & Young LLP were best placed to carry out this work.
Their audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the use of a separate corporate transactions partner and prior approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee on a case by case basis.
Following consideration of the above matters relating to the performance and independence of the external auditors at a meeting of the Audit Committee in May 2013, a unanimous recommendation was made to the Board for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys external auditors to be proposed to Shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee acknowledges the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the FRC in September 2012 and, in particular, the requirement to put the audit services contract out to tender at least once every ten years.
This guidance is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
As noted above, the last audit tender was 5 years ago in 2008.
The Audit Committee is also aware of, and sensitive to, Investor body guidelines on non-audit fees and intends to further review, in the year ahead, its policy of awarding non-audit services to ensure that the correct balance is maintained between ensuring that the Group benefits cost-effectively from the accumulated knowledge and experience of Ernst & Young whilst also making sure that their audit independence and objectivity is maintained.
This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: John Worby Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 May 2013 34 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Financial Statements Business Review Corporate Responsibility Good Wholesome Yorkshire Cooking, Baked to Perfection!
Gill Ridgard, The Yorkshire Baker
