STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31 December 2013 In terms of our priorities for 2013, we noted five last year.
Key Priorities Progress To undertake a review of the regulatory changes around audit tendering.
We spent a lot of time considering this point, as well as  LLP PwC service levels, and this is covered in detail below.
These were well controlled and we met our guidance of non-audit fees not exceeding audit fees for the year.
To receive presentations from key members of the operational finance team.
We increased the number of meetings held partly to accommodate this new agenda item and have been pleased with the results.
To receive annual reviews on tax and treasury.
We received a presentation on the tax strategy and risks in April.
It was Alan Ferguson agreed that reviewing treasury matters is now the responsibility of the Board and this is included as part of the Boards ongoing agenda.
Governance To review the integrated assurance mapping exercise.
Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held during the This was a very successful piece of work and will lead to year ended 31 December 2013. more focus on this area from Internal Audit during 2014.
Meetings during the year 4 In summary, we have delivered what we set out to do and have a clear plan for 2014, and I hope this new style of report gets that message over Alan Ferguson Chairman 4 4 clearly and concisely.
I will be available at the AGM to respond to any Stanley Musesengwa 4 4 questions shareholders may raise on any of the Committees activities.
Nigel Turner 4 4 The Committee is made up of five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers that each member of the Committee is independent within the Steve Williams 4 4 definition of UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and that we each Between 31 December 2013 and the publication of this Annual Report, the Audit have relevant financial experience.
In addition, I have held a number of senior Committee met twice with full attendance by the Committee members, including financial roles, most recently as Chief Financial Officer of Lonmin Plc, and I am Helena Ganczakowski who attended the February 2014 Audit Committee meeting.
chairman of the Audit Committee of two FTSE 100 companies and an AIM listed company.
This provides the Board with assurance that the Audit Committee has the appropriate skills and experience and that it meets the Dear Fellow Shareholder Code requirement that at least one member of the Committee has significant, In my capacity as Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to recent and relevant financial experience.
The experience of each member of present the Audit Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2013. the Committee is summarised on pages 34 to 35.
It was a busy year for your Audit Committee as we: delivered on our The Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance business as usual work, as set out in our terms of reference: focused on Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Risk and Control Manager, our priorities for 2013, as set out in last years report: and considered a raft who leads the internal audit function, and representatives from the external of regulatory guidance issued in final form, or in draft, during the year.
In and internal auditors regularly attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee addition, we changed the structure, and partner-level personnel of our periodically, and myself more regularly, meets separately with the Group Risk external audit team.
and Control Manager, and also with the external auditors without the From a business as usual perspective there is nothing to bring to your Executives being present.
Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 45 Corporate Governance During the year, greater clarity was brought to the split of responsibility between the Board and Audit Committee with regard to risk: the main focus for the Audit Committee is on the level of assurance over mitigating controls.
Whilst these meetings are invaluable, I also meet with the external auditors, The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller at least twice in whistleblowing procedure and approved the introduction, in 2014, of the year to go through the detail of the year-end and half-year results in a third party-hosted whistleblowing reporting line in support of the advance of the Committee meetings.
This helps me better understand the key procedure to facilitate anonymous reporting.
issues and allows me to make sure enough time is devoted to these during the subsequent meeting.
The Committee assessed the performance of the external auditor to Responsibilities of the Committee and activities since the publication confirm the appropriateness of their reappointment and undertook of the 2012 Annual Report a review of the independence and effectiveness of the external The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibility to ensure that the auditor.
This was a very significant piece of work in the year and is Groups financial systems provide accurate and up-to-date information described in more detail below.
on its financial position, and supports the Board in its consideration as to The Committee reviewed the provision of non-audit services by the whether the Groups published financial statements are fair, balanced and external auditor and reapproved the Groups policy in this area.
Key responsibilities of the Committee are to monitor the integrity of the financial statements and results announcements of the Group The Committee agreed the external audit plan for the year, including and review significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
The the scope and materiality level and the audit fees.
Committee also reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems, and the internal audit The Committee received an update on material accounting standards function.
The Committee has a number of responsibilities in relation to the and governance changes that would impact the Group.
Groups external auditors, including their appointment and removal, assessing their independence and the monitoring of non-audit services.
The Committee met with both internal audit and external audit Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Committees terms of reference, without management being present.
a copy of which can be found in the Governance section of the Companys website www.
com As a result of this work the Committee fully delivered against the Main activities requirements as detailed in its terms of reference.
The Committee met four times during the year and twice between the year-end and the publication of this Annual Report.
The key issues covered Significant Financial Statement reporting issues at the Committee meetings were reported to the subsequent Board In undertaking its role of monitoring the financial statements and results meeting.
The main activities of the Committee were as follows: announcements of the Group, the Committee reviewed whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted and whether management had made appropriate estimates and judgements.
With support from the The Committee monitored the financial statements and results external auditors, the Committee considered a number of significant issues announcements of the Group and reviewed significant financial in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December reporting and accounting issues.
2013, which are set out below: The Committee reviewed and approved the internal audit plan and considered the results of internal audits, the adequacy of Intangible assets: The Committee reviewed the Groups accounting managements response to the matters raised and the time taken policy on the identification and valuation of intangible assets arising to resolve any such matters.
The Committee also reviewed specific through acquisitions.
The underlying methodology had been updated in risk based reviews carried out by internal audit based on themes light of the Groups strategic priority to accelerate new technology arising from the previous years internal audit activity.
capture and the acquisitions made by the Group during the year.
Errors in the identification and valuation of acquired intangible assets could The risk assurance mapping process was further developed in the lead to a misclassification on the balance sheet and a misstatement in year, as further described at page 25, and greater clarity was brought the income statement in future years.
The Committee considered the to the split of responsibility between the Board and Audit Committee definition of intangible assets, the valuation methodology and with regard to risk.
associated assumptions and the approach to materiality, and reviewed advice from the external auditor, PwC.
After due challenge and debate, At each meeting the Committee received a report from the Group Risk the Committee agreed to the approach set out by management.
For the and Control Manager and monitored compliance with the Group risk 2013 year-end the Committee reviewed the reasonableness of management programme.
The Committee reviewed the reliance assumptions used in testing for impairment and ensured that the placed by management on the risk mitigating controls of the Groups previously agreed methodology was appropriately applied.
highest risks and analysed the various types of assurance, both internal and external, applied to these mitigating controls.
Inventory: The Committee reviewed the carrying value of inventory, with particular focus where the inventory had been purchased from another The Committee undertook regular reviews of the Groups material Croda company, and its ageing.
It considered this was appropriate.
litigation and an annual review of its tax strategy.
46 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures for Risk Management.
The main focus for the Committee has been on Pensions: The Committee continued to monitor the Groups pension looking at what levels of assurance there are over the mitigating controls arrangements, and in particular the liability in respect of the defined which reduce the gross levels of exposure to acceptable net levels.
A major benefit plans in the UK, US and the Netherlands, which are sensitive to piece of work was undertaken to identify all areas where assurance is assumptions made in respect of discount rates and inflation.
The gained over the mitigating controls and Internal Audit have devoted more Committee reviewed the actuarial assumptions used and compared time to look at the effectiveness of those levels of assurance.
them with those used by other companies, and considered them to be Details on how the business implements its risk management and controls reasonable.
on a Group-wide basis are set out on page 43.
External Auditors effectiveness Provisions: The Committee reviewed whether certain environmental, During the early part of year the Committee engaged with management in reorganisation, fair value, litigation and other legal provisions were reviewing the tenure of the lead PwC audit partner.
This arose from a considered sufficient to cover estimated costs and were satisfied they discussion on the effectiveness of PwC, the structure of their senior audit were reasonable and appropriate.
team, and the timing of when to tender the audit following the publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the provisional Tax: The global footprint of the Group necessitates an understanding of, findings from the Competition Commissions investigation into the audit and compliance with, complex tax regulations.
The Committee services market issued in February 2013. reviewed the basis of calculation of the effective tax rate, the status of Following these deliberations, I entered into discussions with PwC, the Groups tax compliance, details of any potentially significant supported by the Group Finance Director, about the different partner challenges from tax authorities and the level of provisions.
The models that could serve Croda.
Following discussions with the Committee Committee concluded there were no significant issues.
we felt we would be best served by a two partner model, with one partner being London based.
Following a number of interviews, the decision was made to appoint a new lead audit partner, Mr Morrison, the Yorkshire and Internal Audit and Risk Management North East Regional Leader based in the Leeds office, supported by Mr During the year I met with the Group Risk and Control Manager a number Chambers, a London-based partner with considerable FTSE 100 of times outside of the formal meetings to discuss the performance and experience.
The Committee considered that the appointment would lead to output of the Internal Audit function as well as to discuss aspects of Risk an increase in the depth and breadth of service provided by PwC.
The Group Risk and Control Manager attended each of the lead audit partner transition plan, Messrs Morrison and Chambers Committee Meeting and presented an internal audit report that was fully visited several key Group locations and held various meetings with reviewed and discussed, highlighting any major deviations from the management, reviewing the Groups key accounting policies to enhance annual plan that had been agreed with the Committee.
their understanding of the Group.
Early indications are that the changes are At each meeting, the Committee considered the results of the audits bringing real benefits to Croda.
undertaken by the Internal Auditor and considered the adequacy of It was felt this was a better option for Croda, at this juncture, than managements response to matters raised, including the time taken to tendering the audit.
At the time of these deliberations the regulatory resolve such matters.
It also focused on where there was a major landscape around audit tendering was still fluid, with best practice around divergence between the outcome of the internal audit and the scoring of what makes for a good tender evolving.
The Committee felt that we would the self-assessment questionnaire, which is completed annually by each be best served by refining the service provided by PwC before going out business unit.
The Committee looked at any recurring themes that were to tender.
identified as issues across a number of locations: issues such as this do Following publication of the Competition Commissions final report in influence our planning for future years audit work.
The Committee looked October, and the indications coming from the European Audit Reforms as carefully at the IT work being carried out by Internal Audit.
Now that we to the possible likely outcomes, the Committee discussed our approach to have effectively one Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system across the audit tendering.
We fully support the principle of tendering and the business we can increase our use of data interrogation techniques for approach taken by the FRC, in terms of comply or explain.
We also agreed the internal audit plan for 2014, this takes into disagree with the rules-based approach taken by the Competition account a number of factors including the results of previous audits, both Commission and the European authorities.
Under the Competition external and internal, the self-assessment questionnaire, any recurring Commissions transitional rules, and the likely European rules, Croda will themes from 2013 and views of executive management.
have to tender its audit by 2020.
However, the Committee felt that we In October, the Committee conducted its annual review of the Internal should commit to tendering to coincide with the expiry of Mr Morrisons Auditor, including the audit plans, general performance and relationship term as lead audit partner, which is when he would sign the 2017 Annual with the external auditors.
We also reviewed a comparison of our assessed Report, or sooner if considered necessary by the Committee.
There are no performance against best practice guidance set by the Institute of Internal contractual obligations that restrict our choice of external auditor, although Auditors.
This did not highlight any significant areas for development.
under the proposed European rules we will have no choice other than to rotate PwC off the audit by 2020.
A significant amount of time was spent this year to ensure there was complete clarity with regard to the Committees and Boards responsibility Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 47 Corporate Governance The Committee assessed the effectiveness of PwC as external auditor to External Auditors independence the Group.
To assist in the assessment, the Committee examined the The Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of results of the internal survey completed by all senior financial management the Groups external auditors in their reporting to shareholders.
Both of across the Group covering their views on the effectiveness of PwC carrying the PwC audit partners are present at Audit Committee meetings to out the 2013 audit, the results of which were positive and an improvement ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit as well as to on 2012. ensure that they are kept fully appraised of all the matters being considered by the Committee.
The Committee also took account of the views of the Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller following the meetings they had PwC were the Groups joint auditors from 1970 to 1980 and have been with local audit partners when visiting the Groups key jurisdictions to sole auditors since 1981.
To ensure objectivity, the rotation of audit ensure they had a firm grasp of the quality of the individuals and their partners responsibilities within PwC is actively encouraged and has knowledge and understanding of the business.
The Committee also taken place.
considered the degree to which the auditor was able to assess key During the year the Committee undertook a detailed review of the accounting and audit judgements, as well as the way it provided provision of non-audit services by PwC and reviewed the Groups policy in constructive challenge and professional scepticism in its dealings with this area.
Assignments awarded to PwC are subject to controls by management.
We also looked at the Audit Quality Inspection report on management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee in order to PwC to see what the principal findings were arising from the reviews ensure that audit independence is not compromised.
I am required to give undertaken in order to assess the overall quality of the work carried out by prior approval of work carried out by PwC and its associates in excess of PwC.
The report was generally positive, directionally and in tone.
predetermined thresholds, which were lowered from 50,000 to 20,000 A review of effectiveness also forms part of PwCs own system of quality in 2012 in recognition by the Committee of the level of spend on non-audit control.
This lower limit will remain unchanged for 2014 when it is expected that non-audit fees incurred will be lower than in Following the review, its Committee concluded that the audit was effective 2013, but will be reviewed in that light for 2015.
Part of my review is also to and that the effectiveness should be kept under review.
determine that other potential providers of the services have been properly considered.
The Committee discussed and approved the external audit plan, including: the assessment of significant audit risks: the scope of the audit covering As first disclosed in the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts, PwC has circa 84% of the Groups consolidated pre-tax profit : the materiality level been providing advisory services in relation to the implementation of the circa 5% of the Groups consolidated pre-tax profit, or 12.5m : and the ERP computer system, which increased significantly their non-audit deminimus reporting threshold 0.5m.
The audit fees were reviewed by activities from 2011 to 2013.
Given the nature of these services, the full the Committee and referred to the Board for approval.
Audit Committee considered and approved PwCs appointment back in 2010.
This work, undertaken in a number of the Groups less material locations, was finalised in 2013 as the Group completed the roll out of its ERP system to the global sales network.
All responsibility for the design and implementation of the ERP system resides with management.
This includes managing the systems operation, monitoring its internal controls and ensuring data integrity.
PwCs role was restricted to assessing the systems implementation against the design criteria developed by management.
In 2013 the Committee carefully examined the continued use of PwC on the ERP roll-out and we were satisfied that given their continued high performance and excellent knowledge of the Groups systems, it was appropriate.
In reaching our decision, we had regard to the fact that a change in provider could extend completion of the roll out programme considerably, that the programme was nearing completion and that PwCs continued role did not compromise their independence as auditor of the Group.
The Committee was very cognisant of shareholder concerns about the recent level of non-audit fees, and I wrote to the key shareholder groups P78 Group Auditors Report before the 2013 AGM in order to explain our position more fully.
As stated in the 2012 Annual Report, it was our intention that total non-audit P93 Auditors Remuneration spend would not exceed total audit spend in 2013, unless we felt this was in the shareholders interests.
P122 Company Auditors Report 48 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Given this, it is pleasing to report that total non-audit fees in 2013 were 0.7m, which is less than the total audit fees of 0.8m.
Of the total of non-audit fees 0.5m related to work carried out in assisting the implementation of the Groups ERP systems 2012: 1.1m.
This cost was capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for intangible assets.
No further non-audit fees will be incurred in relation to the ERP system as PwC have completed their work on this three-year project, so the total non-audit fee spend by PwC will fall again in 2014.
The only significant fees for tax work undertaken by PwC relate to tax compliance in the USA.
We believe their detailed knowledge of our operations in the USA is particularly important given the complexities of both Federal and State legislation, which necessitated the completion of thirty five tax returns last year.
The Committee undertook its annual review of the Groups policies relating to external audit, including the policy that governed how and when employees and former employees of the Groups auditors can be employed by the Group.
External Auditor reappointment The Committee recommended to the Board that PwC be offered for re-election at the forthcoming AGM based on the work carried out in assessing their effectiveness and independence.
Priorities for 2014 In addition to our routine business, there are four focus areas for the Committee during 2014: With Internal Audit, we will look more closely at how we can continue to develop our systems-based audit approach.
We will fully review progress made with PwC following the changes in structure and personnel carried out some eight months ago, aiming to satisfy ourselves that the benefits we expect to see are delivered and embedded for the future.
With regard to risk, we have made great progress during 2013 in setting out a clear roadmap detailing the various types and levels of assurance that are in place to mitigate our key risks, down to a net risk that the Board is comfortable to accept.
During 2014, we need to better understand the comfort levels we have over those types and levels of assurance with Internal Audit spending more time and resource in this area.
As a Committee, we will commit further time in 2014 to better understanding the processes we have in place to mitigate cyber risk: something that management has been focused on for some years.
Alan Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 49
