STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Leadership Role of the Board Governance Structure: The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership of the Group and in this role it oversees the development of a clear strategy for the Group, monitors operational and Board financial performance against agreed goals and objectives and ensures that appropriate controls and systems are in place to manage risk.
It has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for it, a full copy of which can be found on the Companys website Group Chief Nomination Audit Remuneration www.
The principal Committee Committee Committee Executive matters reserved for the Board are set out on page 38.
At the date of this report the Board comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Chief Technology Officer Routine Business Group SHEQ Risk Management Group Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee and five independent Non-Executive Directors, who have a broad range of business, financial and international skills and experience.
This provides an appropriate balance and diversity within the Board.
Biographical notes appear on pages 34 and 35.
The Board has three main Committees: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Details of the Companys Board and Committee governance structure are set out to the right.
The terms of Audit Committee chaired by Alan Ferguson reference for each Committee of the Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements announcements, the accounting processes, Board can be found on the Companys and the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management.
For more information see pages 45 to 49. website.
Membership and activities of the various Committees are summarised on the following pages.
Remuneration Committee chaired by Stanley Musesengwa Approves the Companys remuneration policy and framework, and determines the remuneration packages Governance for members of senior management.
For more information see pages 52 to 73.
Membership of the Board as at 31 December 2013 and Attendance Eligibility at Board Nomination Committee chaired by Martin Flower Meetings Held During the Year.
Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees, identifies and nominates suitable candidates for appointment to the Board, and is responsible for succession planning.
For more Meetings during the year 8 information see page 50.
Martin Flower Chairman 8 8 Sean Christie 8 8 Alan Ferguson 8 8 Steve Foots 8 8 The day-to-day operational management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Keith Layden 8 8 Executive, who utilises a number of Committees to assist him in this task: the Group Executive Committee, the Stanley Musesengwa 8 8 Risk Management Committee, the Group SHEQ Steering Committee and the Routine Business Committee.
Nigel Turner 8 8 For further information on each of these Committees see page 51.
Steve Williams 8 8 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 37 Corporate Governance Matters reserved for the Board The matters reserved for the Board can be categorised into four broad areas: 1.
Matters required by law to be reser ved for the Boards decision, 3.
UK Corporate Governance Code recommendations, such as such as approval of the report and accounts, appointment of new ensuring the Company has a sound system of internal control and Directors and declaring dividends.
risk management, and approving the Boards and Committees terms of reference.
Requirements of the UK Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, such as approval of circulars to shareholders and 4.
Other matters such as approval of the Groups strategy and budget, significant communications.
material corporate transactions and capital expenditure.
The principal matters reserved for the Board are: Strategy and Management Approval and review of the Groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy and budget.
Financial Reporting and Approval of the Groups financial statements.
Controls Recommendation or declaration of dividends.
Internal Controls Maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management.
Public Communication Approval of shareholder circulars and significant communications.
Board Membership and The size, structure and composition of the Board and its Committees.
Other Appointments Succession planning and appointments to the Board and senior management.
Delegation of Authority Approval of the roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive and the terms of reference of Board Committees.
Remuneration Determination of the remuneration policy for the Directors and other senior executives.
Contracts, Acquisitions, Approval of material corporate and commercial transactions and commitments.
Disposals and Investments Policies Approval of key Group policies.
Other Appointment and removal of the Groups principal professional advisers and external auditors.
Major changes to the rules of the Groups pension schemes.
Role of Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and the number of meetings to be held during the year.
He ensures that there is clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing and adequate time dedicated during meetings and throughout the year to agreed by the Board.
discuss all material matters, including strategic, financial, operational, business, risk, HR and governance issues.
One of the outputs from the The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for promoting open and 2013 Board effectiveness review was to move to an agenda programme effective communication between the Executive and Non-Executive over two years rather than be constrained by a traditional one year cycle.
Directors and for creating an environment at Board meetings in which all Freeing up the agenda programme in this way will allow for more time to the Directors contribute to boardroom discussions and feel comfortable in be spent on agenda items and more time for consideration of engaging in healthy debate and constructive challenge.
With support from the Company Secretary, the Chairman sets the annual Board agenda programme and Board meeting agendas, and determines 38 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures The Chairman leads the annual Board effectiveness review process and The Non-Executive Directors reported back to the Board following their site ensures all new Directors undertake an appropriately tailored induction visits, including recommendations and suggestions for improvements.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective communication Further site visits are planned for 2014. with shareholders and for ensuring the Board develops an understanding All the Directors are involved in the Groups Leadership Development of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman also ensures that the Programme, attending various sessions, including roundtable discussions Group complies with good practice in corporate governance, ethical, on topical business issues chaired by a Director - for example on environmental and human resources matters and upholds high standards emerging markets, ethics or risk management, as well as opportunities of integrity and probity.
to interact socially with the employees on the course in team building The Group Chief Executive has day to day responsibility for the effective sessions or at dinners.
management of the Groups business and for ensuring the implementation Members of the Executive Committee and other senior management of decisions of the Board.
The Group Chief Executive plays a key role in across the business are often invited to Board dinners at which the Board devising and reviewing sustainable strategies for the development of the discusses topics relevant to the business and its strategy.
This enhances Group for discussion and approval by the Board.
He is tasked with the Boards understanding of the business and gives the Directors the providing regular reports to the Board on all matters of significance relating opportunity to spend time with the Groups senior management and to the Groups business or its reputation to ensure the Board has accurate, potential future leaders.
timely and clear information on all matters on which a decision of the Board is required.
The Group Chief Executive promotes the Companys culture and standards.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive liaise closely and have frequent meetings, face-to-face or by telephone, in which the Chairman is kept appraised of significant developments between Board meetings.
This also ensures any areas of potential conflict between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are minimised.
The Senior Independent Directors role includes providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting as an intermediary for the NonExecutive Directors, where necessary.
He is available to shareholders where communication through the Chairman or Executive Directors has not been successful or where it may not seem appropriate.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for leading the Non-Executive Directors in appraising the performance of the Chairman and in their discussions of the Chairmans term of appointment and fees.
Outside the Boardroom In addition to the formal Board meetings, the Directors attended meetings to review the Groups strategy and attended the Annual General Meeting AGM.
They also met with the Companys financial and public relations advisers to discuss the feedback from investors and analysts on the Groups annual results.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met together without the Executive Directors present and the Non-Executive Site visit Directors excluding the Chairman met in order to appraise the Chairmans At least one Board meeting a year also usually takes place at a performance.
In September, the Board held its meeting at our Gouda manufacturing site in the Netherlands and at our During the year, each of the Non-Executive Directors undertook a visit to German offices and distribution centre.
This allowed the Nonone of the Groups UK sites.
In July 2013, Nigel Turner and Alan Ferguson Executive Directors to observe operations at first hand and to meet visited our manufacturing facility at Rawcliffe Bridge and held discussions with the senior management and local employees, gaining an with management in relation to process safety, gaining a fuller insight into the European business.
understanding of the Groups safety management control framework.
In August 2013, Steve Williams and Stanley Musesengwa visited the Companys facility at Leek.
The visit was led by the President of our European Consumer Care business and included a site tour, meetings with the management team in relation to the importance of sales and marketing to the business as well as discussion on customers needs.
Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 39 Corporate Governance The Board has an agenda programme that ensures strategic, operational and business, financial, HR and corporate governance items are discussed at the appropriate time at Board meetings during the year.
The Boards activities during the year and priorities for 2014 Some key highlights of the Boards activities during the year, and areas for focus during 2014, are set out below.
Strategy During the year, the Board met several times to discuss the Groups strategy.
The Board was involved at different stages during the development of the strategy, with their detailed views and direction sought mid-way through the year as consideration of the strategy was progressed by senior management.
This culminated in the Boards approval of the strategic plan at the Board strategy day at the end of the year.
At each Board meeting the Board discusses strategic corporate development and merger and acquisition opportunities.
During the year the Board agreed to acquire the Specialty Products business of Arizona Chemical and a 65% equity interest in Sipo, a natural speciality chemicals manufacturer based in Sichuan Province, China.
During 2014 the Board will continue to focus on key strategic themes, including innovation, globalisation of manufacturing and emerging markets.
Operations and Business The Board were given regular updates on Safety, Health and Environment, Corporate Social Responsibility, and IT.
Senior managers from across the business also gave presentations on their business.
These items will also be discussed in 2014, with presentations already scheduled on Performance Technologies, Geo Technologies and Crop Care.
Finance The Board regularly monitored the Groups financial performance and approved the financial statements, dividend policy and treasury policies.
HR In 2013, the Board oversaw the Executive-led root and branch review of the Companys remuneration philosophy, framework and policies.
The key conclusions of the review were that while the Companys existing reward practices and policies were perceived to be working, opportunities existed for further development enhancement.
The Remuneration Committee led a consultation with the Companys major shareholders and investor bodies on the proposed changes to the Companys remuneration policy, further details of which are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 53.
During 2014, the Board will focus specifically on succession planning.
Corporate Governance As noted on page 36, during the year the Board developed a Board diversity policy.
This included agreeing to work towards increasing the female composition of the Board as vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified, with the objective of appointing at least one female Board Director by the end of 2014.
The Board undertook a review of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its Committees, further details of which can be found on the page opposite.
The Board also undertook a detailed review of its compliance with the Corporate Governance Code Code and the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
These items will be reviewed again in 2014.
Board re-election The Board contains a broad range of skills and experience from different The Companys Articles of Association require the Directors to offer industries and advisory roles, as well as across international markets.
themselves for re-election at least once every three years and for newly These skills support the strategic aims of the Company for the future.
appointed Directors to offer themselves for election at the first AGM Following individual performance assessments, the Board is satisfied after the date of their appointment.
However, in accordance with the that each Director continues to perform effectively, allocates sufficient Code, all Directors except Stanley Musesengwa who will retire at the AGM time to discharge their duties and remains fully committed to their role will stand for re-election at the 2014 AGM, with Helena Ganczakowski in the Company.
Full biographies for the Directors can be found on pages 34 and 35.
