Corporate Governance The Board is committed to ensuring that it provides entrepreneurial leadership for the Group within a dynamic governance framework that adapts to the changing corporate governance landscape.
The actions agreed following the externally facilitated Board effectiveness review in 2012 have progressed well.
In 2013 the Board review was conducted using an online survey, the results of which facilitated an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation was once again positive, with some minor areas for improvement identified and agreed.
Further details can be found on page 41.
The Board is committed to greater diversity within our business.
A greater diversity of ideas, skills, knowledge, experience, ethnicity and gender throughout our organisation is very important for the continuing long-term success of the Company.
This also applies when it comes to the composition of the Board to ensure that it is well equipped to lead the business effectively, embraces new ideas and makes good use of differences in experiences, backgrounds and perspectives to satisfy all the different stakeholders we have as a global organisation.
During the year, we adopted a Board diversity policy, which included the objective of increasing the female composition on our Board as vacancies arise Martin Flower, Chairman and suitable candidates are identified, and appointing at least one female Board Director by the end of 2014.
A copy of the policy is available on the Companys website www.
Dear Fellow Shareholder, The Strategic Report provides an explanation of the Groups business model, the basis on which the Group generates value over the long Since the publication of our last Annual Report, our governance framework term and the plan for delivering our strategic objectives.
In the coming has evolved to take account of several important changes to the corporate year, the Board will continue to focus on strategic themes such as governance landscape, including the changes in September 2012 to the innovation, globalisation of manufacturing and emerging markets.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code that resulted in enhanced The Board will also be focusing on succession planning for the Chief consideration of board diversity and additional reporting requirements for Executive and other senior executive roles.
The Board is now also required to report that it considers the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and understandable, which we have done on page 77.
New rules on remuneration reporting Martin Flower were also introduced, which having gone a long way to early adopting in Chairman last years Annual Report, we have now fully adopted in this years report.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and to complying with the provisions of the Code and I am pleased to report that except in one limited respect, the Company has complied with the Code for the period under review.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and this report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, set out on pages 52 to 73, describes how the main principles of governance set out in the Code have been applied by the Company.
In light of Stanley Musesengwas retirement from the Board in April, the Board, with the assistance of the Nomination Committee, undertook a search for a new Non-Executive Director.
We took great care to ensure that the specification for the role was equally suited to both female and male applicants and we appointed a search consultant, Zygos, that had signed up to the voluntary code on diversity.
I was therefore delighted to announce in January the appointment of Helena Ganczakowski as a Non-Executive Director of Croda.
Helena brings with her a wealth of experience in consumer marketing and innovative product development.
I wish Stanley well and thank him for the valuable role he has played over the last seven years.
Steve Williams will succeed Stanley as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
