Corporate Governance Nomination Committee The Committee carried out its customary corporate governance review and Governance was satisfied that the size, structure and composition of the Board and the required time commitment from Non-Executive Directors remained Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held during appropriate.
It was also satisfied that all the Non-Executive Directors the year ended 31 December 2013. continued to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time for the proper performance of their duties.
During the year, Meetings during the year 4 the Committee used an online survey to assist with its annual evaluation Martin Flower Chairman 4 4 review.
The performance of the Committee was positively rated, with the selection of a new Non-Executive Director being identified as the main Alan Ferguson 4 4 priority for 2013.
Steve Foots 4 4 The key responsibilities of the Committee: Stanley Musesengwa 4 4 T o review regularly the structure, size and composition including the Nigel Turner 4 4 skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and make Steve Williams 4 4 recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
To give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and Dear Fellow Shareholder, other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board, the the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and what skills Non-Executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive.
It meets on an and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future.
ad-hoc basis and is responsible for nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and succession planning.
Where a Board vacancy is identified, to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and, in the light Main activities during the year of that evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities In accordance with the Code, all Non-Executive Directors with a term required for a particular appointment.
beyond six years have been subject to a rigorous review.
In January 2013, the Committee recommended the extension of Stanley Musesengwas To Identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates to term of office for a further one year to May 2014, which would bring his fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The Nomination Committee felt the extension of his term beyond six years was in the best interest of the Company as Stanley To keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both took the lead in overseeing the Executive-led root and branch Executive and Non-Executive, with a view to ensuring the continued remuneration review during the year.
The Committee also recommended ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
that the Board extend Steve Williams term of office for a further three years until June 2016 and that he succeed Stanley Musesengwa as Chairman of To review annually the time required from a Non-Executive Director the Remuneration Committee following Stanleys retirement from the Board and the Chairman.
Nigel Turner, Senior Independent Director, chaired the To make recommendations on succession planning for the Board.
Committee in its discussion of Martin Flowers term of office.
The Committee recommended the Board extend Martins term of office as Chairman of the Board for a further two years until September 2015.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will be available at the AGM to respond to any questions shareholders may raise on any of the The Committees main activity during the year was the search for a new Committees activities.
Non-Executive Director to replace Stanley Musesengwa.
The Committee identified the key skills and experience required of the new Non-Executive Priorities for 2014 Director that were aligned with the Companys strategic aims and would complement the existing skills and experience of the current Directors.
A Continue to review the balance, experience and skills of the Board.
role specification was agreed and the Committee retained an external search firm, Zygos, which has no other connection with the Company, to Review the term of office of Alan Ferguson, whose initial three-year assist in the process of identifying potential candidates for nomination to term expires in June 2014. the Board.
Following the successful search, in January 2014 the Committee recommended the appointment of Dr Helena Ganczakowski as a Progress the succession planning for the Group Chief Executive.
Non-Executive Director, and the Board approved her appointment with effect from 1 February 2014.
As noted on page 36, the Board adopted a Board diversity policy, a copy of Martin Flower which is available on the Companys website site www.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 50 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013
