Corporate Governance Statement of compliance Chairmans introduction The Companys shares are listed on the premium segment of the CSRs success depends on blending talent with innovation, creativity Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority.
Therefore, under with disciplined focus, and passion with a focus on success.
These the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Board must elements must be underpinned by a sure foundation of fairness, report on compliance with the Main Principles set out in the UK ethical behaviour, sound judgment and, most importantly, personal Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting accountability.
The passion, which is driven from the very top of the Council the Code.
The Code was revised in September 2012 and company and permeates throughout it, needs to be supported by was effective for the Company for the reporting period commencing oversight and reporting that provides appropriate governance and on 31 December 2012.
The Board has considered the provisions of assurance.
I and my fellow directors believe that good governance is the Code, in determining its compliance and is satisfied it has the very heart of an effective and properly functioning organisation.
complied with the code throughout the 52-week period to 27December 2013.
The Board believes that personal accountability, regardless of anindividuals role in our organisation is extremely important.
The Companys American depositary receipts are listed on the Personal accountability should enable a business such as CSR, NASDAQ Stock Market LLC NASDAQ and the Company is which operates across many countries with diverse cultures and therefore also subject to the rules of the NASDAQ and US laws, toconduct its business in accordance with prevailing laws, Securities laws and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange and business practices.
The role of the Board is to set the tone in Commission the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
such matters, and to support executive management in promoting the right culture and practices, supported by a framework of Succession planning and organisational development policies that sets out the practices to which employees are The Board recognises the importance that organisational expected to adhere.
These are combined with oversight and development plays in supporting the successful delivery of the assurance that calibrates how individuals and teams are adhering Groups strategy.
This is particularly important during periods of tothese standards.
significant change, which the Group has experienced in recent years with the acquisitions of SiRF Technology in 2009 and Zoran Your Board is committed to these principles.
Through its business Corporation in 2011, the disposal of the handset connectivity and and that of its Committees during 2013, the Board has played handset location development operations Handset Operations to an active role in ensuring that the fulfilment of CSRs strategic Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd Samsung in 2012 and the objectives is conducted within a framework that properly reflects decision, which was announced in December 2013, to discontinue the interests of all our stakeholders.
investment in the Camera on a Chip platform.
Your Board receives regular reports on all aspects of the Groups From regular reports, the Board is updated on employee-related business, including areas directly related to good governance.
matters and organisational changes as they relate to the delivery of Examples of the type of subjects include progress on the Group the Groups objectives.
Reporting includes details of how changes policies and practices concerned with health, safety and are being implemented, including the support provided to implement environmental management including training to empower local and manage such developments effectively.
For example, following management and staff to take personal ownership of such matters, the loss of personnel with important skills as aresult of the disposal the evaluation and management of risks associated with the of the Handset Operations to Samsung in October 2012, the Board conduct of the Groups business, and the implementation of has through the course of 2013, received updates on the recruitment initiatives designed to further enhance existing processes of additional people, including senior level appointments into specific concerned with Cyber Security, which has been ongoing areas of the Groups business.
TheBoard also has oversight and throughout 2013. provides scrutiny on progress onrecruitment into senior executive functions, linked to meeting specific objectives.
One example is the As a unitary Board, your directors also have a shared responsibility search for an additional senior manager to support the Groups Cyber for the long-term success of the Group.
This is performed through Security-related initiatives.
the formulation and execution of the Groups strategy, making enquiries of management, assessing performance, demonstrating Senior management below board level attend and present to the independence, knowledge and experience and holding Board on specific business items within their areas of responsibility, management to account.
We consider the Board is sufficiently including as part of discussions on strategy and at the time of diverse, conforming to the provisions of the UK Corporate considering the annual plan each year.
The Board considers that Governance Code the Code on diversity, with the right balance this engagement provides valuable insight.
It is expected to of skills, experience and background.
This balance and diversity is incorporate additional management engagement within the periodically evaluated and, in considering new appointments to the Boards regular cycle of meetings, for example with those Board, attention is given to sustaining the appropriate balance, with newly appointed into senior functions supporting execution due regard for the evolution of the Group.
of the Groups technical roadmap.
The following report, which includes on pages 59 to 65 the report During the autumn of 2013, management initiated a formal review of the Audit Committee, and the separate report of the of succession planning and development which is targeted at senior Remuneration Committee on pages 68 to 84, explains how the managerial and executive levels in the Group.
Details of the review Board operates, the roles of the Board members and how the were reported at a meeting of the Board held in December 2013.
Board and its Committees function to ensure compliance with the The review is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2014, at principles of good corporate governance.
In this report and the which stage the findings and recommendations will be further Strategic Report on pages 38 to 44, we also explain how we considered by the Board.
encourage our employees across the Group to accept their individual accountability for ensuring that the Group as a whole Ethics policy operates to high standards of governance.
All employees of the Group, including the directors and senior officers, must comply with the Groups Ethics Policy, which was first adopted in 2009 following the Companys registration with the SEC.
In addition, the Group has adopted an Executive Ethics Policy that applies to Board members, senior officers and other specified Ron Mackintosh employees and is intended to meet the code of ethics Chairman 54 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
