Corporate Governance continued Both CSRs Nomination and Remuneration Committees have Code of conduct terms of reference and compositions that comply with the Under NASDAQ rules US listed companies must adopt a code Codes requirements.
ofconduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees.
TheGroup has adopted a Group Ethics policy, which applies to The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the allits employees, including directors and officers.
It sets out what Board and its other members are non-executive directors of conduct is expected of employees as they adhere to our business the Company.
principles and draws their attention to the Groups policies.
In addition, the Company has adopted an Executive Ethics Policy The Remuneration Committee is chaired by a non-executive that applies to executive directors, senior officers and other director who is considered independent of management and the specified employees and is intended to meet the code of ethics Board, and additional members are three other independent requirements of Section 406 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
non-executive directors including the Chairman of the Board.
Under NASDAQ rules, the Chairman of the Board is not considered Quorum independent: therefore the Remuneration Committee does not meet Under NASDAQ rules, US listed companies are required to have the requirements of the NASDAQ rules.
a minimum quorum of 33.33% of the shareholders of ordinary shares for shareholder meetings.
However, the Companys Articles In addition, recent changes to NASDAQ rules now require the of Association provide for a quorum for general meetings of compensation committee to have the authority, in its sole discretion, shareholders of two shareholders regardless of the level of their to retain or obtain the advice of a compensation adviser, and be aggregate share ownership.
directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, and oversight of the work of a compensation adviser retained by the Related party transactions committee.
The rules also require the issuer to provide appropriate The NASDAQ rules require US listed companies to conduct funding, as determined by the compensation committee, for the appropriate reviews of related party transactions and potential payment of reasonable compensation to a compensation adviser.
conflicts of interest via the companys audit committee or other Moreover, the compensation committee may select, or receive independent body of the board of directors.
advice from, a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other adviser to the compensation committee only after taking into We are subject to extensive provisions under the Listing Rules consideration the factors set forth in the NASDAQ Rule.
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK the Listing Rules governing transactions with related parties, as defined CSRs Remuneration Committee conducts its business in therein, and the Companies Act 2006 also restricts the extent to accordance with terms of reference which reflect the delegated which companies incorporated in England and Wales may enter authority of the Remuneration Committee.
These terms of reference into related party transactions.
include making recommendations on CSRs framework for executive remuneration and determining the individual remuneration The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions regarding packages for each executive director.
disclosure of interests by directors and restrictions on their voting in circumstances involving conflicts of interest.
In connection with its duties, CSRs Remuneration Committee is authorised by the Board, at the Companys expense, to obtain The concept of a related party for the purposes of NASDAQs listing outside legal or other independent professional advice including the rules differs in certain respects from the definition of a transaction advice of independent remuneration consultants and to secure the with a related party under the Listing Rules.
attendance of external professional advisers at its meetings if it considers this necessary.
Page 83 of the report of the Shareholder approval Remuneration Committee explains the advisers presently retained Stock option plans by the Committee for such purposes.
Although CSRs NASDAQ rules require US listed companies to obtain shareholder Remuneration Committee can seek the advice and assistance of approval before a stock option or purchase plan is established or any of CSRs executives, it needs to ensure that this role is clearly materially amended or other equity compensation arrangement is separated from their role within the business.
The terms of made pursuant to which stock may be acquired by officers, reference of CSRs Remuneration Committee are consistent with directors, employees or consultants of the company, subject to the requirements of the Code.
The Companys directors or Remuneration Committee may amend the schemes and plans of the Company, The Audit Committee is composed entirely of non-executive except that any amendment relating to the identity of option holders, directors whom the Board has determined to be independent and the limitations on their benefits, the basis for determining an option who meet the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act.
holders entitlement to shares other than provided for in accordance with the rules or the adjustment of rights for option holders in the We consider that the terms of reference of these committees, event of a variation in share capital may not be made to the which are available on our website www.
com ir corporateadvantage of option holders without prior approval of the  corporate-governance are generally shareholders of the Company in general meeting, except for minor responsive to the relevant NASDAQ rules but may not address all amendments relating to tax and administrative matters.
Amendments aspects of these rules.
to the CSR plc SAYE Scheme, the CSR plc Share Option Plan and the CSR plc 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plan are subject to the prior approval of HM Revenue and Customs in the UK in order to retain their UK tax approved status.
66 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
