CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Remuneration Committee The Board has further determined that for the purposes of US As at the date of this report, the Chairman of the Remuneration securities laws, Mr. Allner was independent in accordance with the Committee, was Mr. Chris Stone, a position he has held since definition of independence in Rule 5605 a 2 of the listing rules of May2013 following the retirement at that time from the Board theNASDAQ.
The other members of the Committeeat 27 December 2013 were Messrs. Allner, Boyd, The other members of the Audit Committee at 27 December 2013 Carlisle and Mackintosh.
were Mr. Carlisle, Mr. Boyd and Ms. Vega.
Mr. Mackintosh, Chairman of the Board, attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
The principal function of the Remuneration Committee is to The experience and expertise of the members of the Audit establish and review the terms and conditions for the executive Committee are summarised on pages 52 and 53.
The attendance of directors, and the overall policy framework for the remuneration its members is shown in the table on page 67.
Each member of the of other senior executives and the Group as a whole.
The Committee is financially literate, having the necessary ability and Remuneration Committee met three times during the year and the experience to understand financial statements.
attendance of its members is shown in the table on page 67.
The Audit Committee encourages continuous improvement and The report to shareholders on the role of the Remuneration supports management in identifying targets and objectives that Committee and how directors are remunerated, together with details contribute to this aim.
Areas in which the Committee worked with of individual directors remuneration are set out on pages 68 to 84. management in this regard are considered in more detail below.
Nomination Committee Following the retirement of Mr. Allner from the Board, effective Mr. Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, 1 January 2014, Mr. Walker Boyd assumed the role of Chairman of a position he has held since May 2007.
The other members of the the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that Mr. Boyd, a Nomination Committee at 27 December 2013 were Messrs. Allner, Chartered Accountant, possesses recent and relevant financial Boyd and Carlisle.
The qualifications of the directors can be found experience for the purposes of the Code and is an audit committee in the biographies of board members on page 52. financial expert for the purposes of US securities laws.
The Board has further determined that for the purposes of US securities laws, The role of the Nomination Committee is to consider appointments Mr. Boyd is independent in accordance with the definition of to the Board and succession planning at senior levels within the independence in Rule 5605 a 2 of the listing rules of the NASDAQ.
The Nomination Committee reviews the composition of the Board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills, experience Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit Committee and terms of office and seeks to ensure that both executive and Your Audit Committee is integral to the scrutiny which is given non-executive directors have the necessary skills and attributes for bythe Board on the performance of management and the the future success of the Group.
standingof the Group as a whole.
The Nomination Committee retains external search consultants as The Committee regularly assesses the Groups financial integrity appropriate to assist the Committee in identifying candidates for while also ensuring that management establishes and maintains appointments to the Board.
During 2013, the Nomination systems of controls including those concerned with financial Committee engaged Russell Reynolds, executive search reporting and risk management that are balanced and appropriate, consultants, who are independent of the Company, to undertake a and which evolve in a measured manner to reflect changes in the search for suitable candidates for a new non-executive director Group across its various operations.
which culminated in the appointment of Mr. Walker Boyd effective from 6 December 2013.
The Board is satisfied that a robust and Through quarterly meetings which were held during 2013, thorough evaluation was undertaken in connection with Mr. Boyds theCommittee has applied these principles to a range of topics appointment to the Board.
that are part of an established schedule of business, as well as tospecific matters as they might arise.
During 2013, the Nomination Committee did not meet separately, but did meet as part of the formal proceedings of the Board to For example, as with other listed companies, an important area of consider the appointment of Mr. Boyd.
focus has been to consider and plan for the enhanced reporting that became a requirement for listed companies during 2013.
Audit Committee Throughout 2013, Mr. Andrew Allner served as the Chairman of the Your Committee has received reports in connection with these Audit Committee, a position he had held since May 2009.
The Board requirements and discussed with management how to ensure the is satisfied that Mr. Allner, a Chartered Accountant, possessed recent requirements are satisfied.
This has included early consideration of and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and the matters that are set out in this report, including reporting on the is an audit committee financial expert for the purposes of US significant issues considered by the Audit Committee which are set securities laws.
out on pages 62 and 63 and considering the process by which the Board and management can assure themselves that the financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
In connection with these requirements, the Committee has also considered how changes to narrative reporting and work on the enhanced disclosure on remuneration have been planned and executed to support clear and cohesive information for stakeholders.
indb 59 11 03 2014 21:17 Corporate Governance continued The Committee also supports assessment of overall business Role of the Audit Committee performance.
For example, with due consideration for the The Audit Committee assists the Board in carrying out its immediate and longer term strategic objectives of the Group, we responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, have considered proposals for, and subsequently tracked the risk management and the assessment of internal controls.
In progress of, implementing measures aimed at reducing operating conjunction with these activities, the Committee is responsible for costs in conjunction with the Groups long-term operating model.
the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys This in turn has supported consideration by the Committee of policy on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and associated disclosures on the performance of the Group, which effectiveness of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee form part of the quarterly financial statements.
monitors the conduct of the audits of the consolidated reports and financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries.
This includes As previously reported, in the latter part of 2012, the Group consideration of the areas of focus of the audits in conjunction completed the disposal of the Handset Operations to Samsung.
with the external auditors and assessment of their findings and As explained in last years report of the Audit Committee to recommendations, where relevant.
The Audit Committee also shareholders, the Committee reviewed various aspects associated reviews and considers representation letters which are provided with the transaction.
We recognised the importance of managing to the independent auditors, where they are required for the changes within the business following the completion of the independent auditors to release their final reports.
Therefore throughout 2013, the Committee received updates on progress against specific milestones associated with The Audit Committee recommends the appointment and post-completion activities, as well as the performance against the re-appointment of the Groups external auditors, having considered plan for the Legacy Products group, within which the business their effectiveness through meetings lead by the Chairman of the supporting our handset customers was managed.
The Audit Committee also considers the scope of the external auditors work, the terms of their appointment, their The Group has undergone significant change over recent years, fees and the cost effectiveness of their work.
through a combination of organic growth, acquisitions and disposal.
The Committee has oversight on the measures taken to manage The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups such changes, including for example the implementation of internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, risk common policies, procedures and business systems that are management procedures and compliance controls, and also required to maintain integrity in financial reporting and controls.
reviews the statement on internal controls before it is agreed by the Board for each years annual report.
An important aspect of such assurance is through the Groups internal audit function, and as explained on page 61 the Committee A detailed agenda of matters for discussion at the meeting, determines the key areas of focus and receives quarterly reports together with supporting papers is provided in advance of each from the Internal Auditor, as part of monitoring the activities and meeting of the Audit Committee.
The agenda incorporates a range standards applied in effective management of the business.
of standard business items considered at each meeting.
Routine business items include reports from the Chief Financial Officer and As part of its terms of reference, the Committee receives reports Internal Auditor as well as a draft form of the announcement on the on the identification, mitigation and management of risk within the Groups financial results for each quarter.
In addition, the Audit Group.
On pages 63 and 64 of this report, as well as in the Committee addresses a number of other items as part of its sections in the Strategic Report on pages 35 to 37 and the Risk schedule of business through the course of a year, such as risk section on pages 45 to 51, we explain in more detail how risk management, business continuity planning, treasury policy and management is conducted for CSR.
Arising from an initiative that procedures, tax planning and the Groups policy manual as well as commenced in 2012, the Committee has through 2013 received such ad hoc matters as are deemed appropriate.
The schedule of specific reports associated with the evaluation and mitigation of agenda items for the calendar year was last reviewed and approved risks associated with Cyber Security and the Groups business by the Audit Committee in July 2013 and was considered to remain operating systems.
These specific reports included an evaluation appropriate for 2013 and into 2014. conducted by external consultants, benchmarking the actions being taken and assessing the sufficiency of identified strategies that are The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief intended to support threat analysis and mitigation.
Financial Officer, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Internal Auditor and senior representatives of the external auditors to attendmeetings In keeping with many of the risks that the Group faces, we as appropriate to the business being considered.
In addition, the Audit recognise that threats from Cyber-related risks continue to evolve.
Committee has the right to invite any other employees to attend Through engagement with management and where necessary, meetings where this is considered to be appropriate.
external consultants, we seek to ensure that, as far as possible, our mitigation measures are proportionate and remain subject to regular The conduct of the business of the Audit Committee review, with due consideration of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Audit Committee met five times in 2013 in the execution of its responsibilities.
The more material matters considered and any At its meeting in October, the Committee noted the findings arising proposals for action were reported by the Chairman of the Audit from the interim report of the Competition Commission enquiry on Committee to the subsequent meeting of the full Board.
Audit Tendering, published in the Autumn of 2013.
We believe the changes proposed are consistent with good governance, transparency and shareholder engagement, and we support them.
The present Audit Partner is Mrs. Kate Houldsworth.
Mrs. Houldsworth has held the post of audit partner for CSR since October 2013.
We discuss our approach to the review of the effectiveness of the external auditors on page 62.
Walker Boyd Chairman, Audit Committee 60 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 60 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The Audit Committee reviews all proposed announcements to be during the year.
These are discussed in the Strategic Report on made by the Group to the extent they contain financial information.
The Audit Committee monitors the Groups In the preparation of such statements, the Audit Committee Treasury function on a regular basis, including where appropriate considers the level of disclosure and how these comply with periodic external audits of the Treasury functions policies, prevailing accounting standards as well as good practice.
The Groups Treasury Policy was From time to time, the Audit Committee has instigated reviews of most recently reviewed in October 2013 and the findings reported the approach taken by management on specific items with due for consideration by the Audit Committee at its scheduled meeting regard to prevailing interpretation and practice, including for in October 2013.
The review included amendments to the approved example in regard to disclosure on charges associated with the counterparties with whom the Company might place cash on vesting and exercise of equity as part of the Groups employee deposit to reflect managements assessment, in conjunction with incentive arrangements.
In 2013, the Audit Committee was also independent reports received on changes to the ratings of certain advised on the timing of the introduction of new reporting financial institutions.
The Treasury Policy was approved by the Audit standards, how they impact the Group, and appropriate action to Committee and subsequently adopted by the Board.
ensure the Group will comply, which has also been shared with theauditors.
As appropriate, the Audit Committee and Board are kept appraised of litigation affecting the Group, any material developments and the Each quarter, as part of its routine business, the Audit Committee assessment of the potential to affect the financial position of the receives a detailed report from the Chief Financial Officer on the Group This review is also supported by a sub-committee of the performance of the Group.
In addition to a summary of the balance Board led by the Chairman of the Board, the purpose of which is to sheet and income statement, the report incorporates detailed consider matters connected with material litigation.
Both the Audit analysis on a range of key metrics which tracks the performance Committee and the Litigation sub-committee have access to the ofthe Group and its operating segments.
This information forms advice and support of the Groups executive management and part of the discussions of the Audit Committee to ensure that outside counsel where considered appropriate.
The results of these material matters are properly considered and discussed with meetings are reported to the Board as appropriate.
management and, where appropriate, with the external auditors.
The information and the discussions support the understanding The Committee continues to receive reports each quarter on ofthe Audit Committee and the Board on the nature of disclosures progress in raising awareness within the organisation across which should be made in the Groups financial results.
Reflecting functions and territories on appropriate processes and both the evolution of the Group and wider developments in best engagements with third parties in response to the UK Bribery Act.
practice, the Audit Committee has considered areas for possible During 2013, external advisers continued to support additional enhancement in internal reporting, which serve to aid understanding targeted face to face training to augment the online training and to in business performance and in the management of significant risks, review prevailing policies with regard to the changes in the Group for example introduction of new products and technologies.
and developing practices and interpretation of how best to respond to the principles of the UK Bribery Act.
This will form part of the The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit business of the Audit Committee at future meetings.
function, considering and approving the scope of the annual internal audit plan, and thereafter reviewing reports on the results of internal Interaction with the external Auditors audit work which has been conducted.
The Audit Committee During 2013, as part of its formal business, the Audit Committee receives reports on a quarterly basis setting out the findings from the met on five occasions with the external auditors.
On two occasions reviews performed, in addition to the progress made in addressing the Audit Committee also held separate meetings with the external any outstanding recommendations arising from earlier audits which auditors at which no executive director or employee have been conducted.
The plan provides for a rolling schedule of of the Company was present.
visits to all offices within the Group, as well as the review of various functions and activities, both financial and non-financial.
In relation to the appointment of external auditors and in order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Audit Since the Company became subject to the reporting requirements Committee has a policy of permitted services which details the of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Audit Committee services that can be provided by the Groups auditors and those has received reports from management regarding the Companys services which require specific advance approval by the Audit compliance with requirements under the Exchange Act including Committee.
The policy also details services that the Groups auditors those rules and regulations that apply by reason of the US are not permitted to provide.
The objective is that the auditors Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that relate to financial reporting and should not be employed to provide services where either the nature other disclosure matters.
These requirements relate, among other of the work or extent of the services and fee payable might impair things, to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control the auditors independence or objectivity.
over financial reporting which applied as of the end of the 2011 financial year.
The Internal Auditor reports on various aspects of The external auditors are permitted to undertake some non-audit ensuring compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley each quarter based on services, providing this has been awarded after due consideration of the approved internal audit plan.
their skills, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Group, on for example, advisory services and As part of the adoption of the internal audit plan, the Audit due diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions.
Committee also considers and approves the utilisation of external For permitted services, the Audit Committee has delegated the resources to assist in timely execution and reporting, where required.
determination of fees to the Chief Financial Officer, provided the fee does not exceed $100,000.
No services can be provided in excess At 27 December 2013, the Group had cash resources of $306.2 of $100,000 without the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
million, a decrease from the $333.3 million held at the end of the The policy, which was reviewed in October 2013, was complied with prior year.
The net outflow arises from the day-to-day operations of throughout the year.
the Group, after the return of capital to shareholders resulting from share buybacks and the payments of final and interim dividends www.
indb 61 11 03 2014 21:17 Corporate Governance continued The Audit Committee is aware of and has approved the audit The review for 2014 will be undertaken by the Audit Committee and and non-audit services which have been provided during 2013 by the findings arising from that review shall be reported to the Board in the Companys external auditors, Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
The review shall be lead by the Chairman non-audit services concerned advice on tax matters which was of the Audit Committee and include engagement with executive considered to be appropriate, given their in-depth knowledge of the management and members of the Audit Committee.
affairs and financial practices in the Group and work associated with the review of the Groups response to potential Cyber-related risks.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the Companys Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might 2013 2012 2011 be raised concerning the Audit Committees activities.
$000 $000 $000 Audit fees 851 883 1,007 Items Considered by the Audit Committee In the preparation and approval of the 2013 Financial Statements Audit-related services 105 110 44 there are certain areas of critical judgment that are reported to and Taxation services 261 672 466 reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The areas described below are the Other services 34 350 2,380 primary areas where judgement has been exercised in the Total 1,251 2,015 3,897 preparation of the 2013 Financial Statements as found on pages 93 to 148.
These reflect matters which the Audit Committee and Board The Audit Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding the work in considered to be significant risks to the business and the Group and each of the foregoing areas, Deloitte have retained objectivity and may relate to disclosures on risk which appear on pages 35 to 37 of independence during the year.
The table above shows the fees paid by the Company to the Impairment Testing for Goodwill and Intangible Assets external auditors as approved by the Audit Committee.
Historically, the Group has grown its business through a combination of organic growth and selective acquisitions, including the acquisition Approval for permitted non-audit services is sought as required of Zoran in 2011.
Such acquisitions have resulted in $131.3 million under the Committees policy.
During 2013, total non-audit related of goodwill held in the Group balance sheet at the year end date.
The most significant element stated above in Other Services for the work in 2013 In addition, at the balance sheet date the Group held intangible related to IT security consulting for 2012, the most significant assets of $72.3 million, that represent historic investments in element related to the transaction with Samsung where the technology, systems and intellectual property to support the appointment of Deloitte was approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considered that performance of the relevant non-audit services by Deloitte was the most cost-effective way of The Group is required to test both Goodwill and intangible assets conducting the requisite work and therefore in the best interest of for potential impairment at least once a year, by calculating the the Group having due regard to the competence and knowledge value in use for the cash-generating units under review.
The Committee was also satisfied that no conflicts of interest existed or would arise in the conduct of the In 2013, following the decision to cease further development of work on behalf of the Group.
During the year a total of $2.91 million new digital still cameras products, the value in use in the Cameras 2012: $3.27 million was paid to other accounting firms for nonbusiness area declined beneath the carrying value of the goodwill audit work, including $1.4 million for work in relation to tax advice and assets allocated.
This created an impairment in the year of to the Group provided by  LLP, Ernst & $76.9 million.
No other impairments were required following the Young and KPMG.
Audit-related fees were $0.2 million and impairment testing.
consisted of the performance of overseas statutory audits.
Such calculations are based on judgments made by management Deloitte has been the Companys auditors since July 2002, which concerning the achievability of the long range business plan and precedes the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in macro-economic assumptions for the industry and markets in March 2004 and the cost, scope and effectiveness of the audit are which we operate.
The most recent full review, including release of tenders to other possible audit firms was conducted in 2005 and The Committee reviewed such judgments by considering reports Deloitte was re-appointed at that time.
The present Audit Partner is prepared by management outlining the basis of assumptions used Mrs. Kate Houldsworth.
Mrs. Houldsworth has held the post of audit and ensuring the impairment test was based on Board-approved partner for CSR since October 2013.
Based on the provisions of the business plans.
In addition, with specific regard to the impairment Code, a formal tendering process would be required at the latest by relating to our Cameras business area, the Committee reviewed the last year of Mrs. Houldsworths tenure, which will be during 2017. papers specifically explaining the costs of this decision, including those arising from the impairment of assets.
During 2013, an assessment of the performance of the external auditors considered the interaction with management generally as This area has been a prime source of audit focus.
For further well as on the development of the Audit Plan, identification and detail on the impairment booked during year see note 13 to the planning for future changes in regulations and accounting standards consolidated financial statements.
as they might affect the Group, support in the review of periodic financial statements and specifically for 2013, preparation for changes in the new financial reporting regime.
The overall conclusion of the review was that Deloitte performed satisfactorily.
62 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
