CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Independence of non-executive directors and segregation of duties The division of responsibilities between the non-executive Chairman In accordance with the provisions of the Code, consideration has and Mr. van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer CEO, is sufficiently been given to the independence of all the non-executive directors.
clear and established in the opinion of the Board that it is not The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be required that it be formally documented.
The Chairman is independent of management and free from any business or other responsible for the running and leadership of the Board.
The CEO relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of is responsible for leading and managing the business within the independent judgement.
As discussed above, the Board considers authorities delegated by the Board and to promote the interests that Dr. Gerzberg, formerly Chief Executive Officer and a co-founder of the Company and Group as a whole.
of Zoran Corporation, acts in a manner which is independent of management and the Company.
Division of responsibilities Chairman CEO Run the Board and set its agenda, taking into account Devote substantially the whole of his time and his attention concerns of all Board members and skill to the duties of his office Ensure that the Board members receive accurate, timely and Develop strategy proposals for recommendation to the Board clear information to enable the Board to carry out its duties and ensure that agreed strategies and associated plans are effectively reflected in the business Enable constructive debate and effective decision making, Be responsible to the Board for the performance of the ensuring sufficient time is allowed for discussion of complex business consistent with the agreed strategy, plans and or contentious issues policies Ensure that Board decisions are effectively implemented At all times keep the Board and the Chairman promptly and fully informed of his conduct of the business and affairs of the Promote the highest standards of corporate governance and Company and of the Group as a whole and provide such business ethics throughout the Group explanations as the Board or the Chairman may require in connection therewith Ensure effective communication with shareholders Faithfully and diligently perform such duties and exercise such powers, consistent with the office to which he is appointed, as is from time to time assigned or vested in him by the Board The CEO has day-to-day responsibility for the Group.
The The Board met eight times during the year of which seven were executive management, who are responsible for the performance scheduled regular meetings and one ad hoc meeting reflecting the of discrete commercial and operational activities of the Group business needs of the Group.
The attendance of each of the report to the CEO.
The executive management have responsibility directors at the scheduled meetings is shown on page 67. within their area of expertise for the implementation of objectives Meetings of duly appointed committees to the Board met a further and assessing performance of particular functions against those seven times enacting elements of business specifically delegated objectives.
Representatives from their respective teams attend and and which were attended by at least one non-executive director report to an executive leadership forum, which includes each of the and two executive directors.
executive directors and members of the executive management.
The CEO also meets regularly with the managers and leaders in Evaluation of the performance of the Board various established forums that fit with the operational cycles of the The Board has undertaken an annual evaluation of the performance Group.
The CEO formally reports at each meeting of the Board on of the Board and its Committees on which it has reported since salient matters arising from the execution of his responsibilities.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, an evaluation of the performance of the Board in conjunction with an external The Board receives reports within its normal business on the agent, was conducted in the autumn of 2011, supported by activities across the Group, including strategic, financial, Armstrong Bonham-Carter.
commercial and on human resources.
Periodically, members of the executive management that report into the CEO attend these The review for 2013 was conducted internally, using a meetings and report on areas of their responsibility.
At these questionnaire and individual meetings conducted by the Chairman meetings, the Board will receive status reports on progress against with each member of the Board.
The Chairman reported on specific targets, for example in performance against project feedback to the Board at a meeting held in December 2013, during milestones, or assessments on the launch of new products.
which the findings were discussed.
The overall conclusion was that This will include an assessment of any potential risks associated the Board, its Committees and individual directors were performing with these activities and possible mitigation measures.
The Senior Independent Director, Anthony Carlisle, also reported on the review of the performance of the Chairman As a global business, the Board considers it important to receive which had concluded that the Chairman was performing well.
information on the business of the offices across the world.
Accordingly, reports are provided by the executive management on the results of their visits to the Groups offices, as well as meetings with customers and suppliers.
The Board is proposing to visit one of the Groups locations outside of the United Kingdom during 2014. www.
indb 57 11 03 2014 21:17 Corporate Governance continued At the meeting held in December 2013, the Board also considered Communications with shareholders the importance of identifying and tracking key risks which had the The Board makes considerable efforts to maintain good potential to impact fulfilment of the Groups strategy, including the relationships with shareholders.
Principally via the executive challenges in allocating financial and human resources to products directors, the Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding and technologies in evolving markets, for example in the emerging of objectives with its major shareholders through regular meetings markets of Bluetooth Smart and Indoor Location.
This will continue and presentations following announcements of each quarters to be an area of focus for the Board and engagement with results.
The Board believes engagement with all shareholders, management through the course of 2014. including smaller investors, is important and welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the Companys Annual General The Board has separately considered that the nine-year tenure in Meeting which in 2014 will be held in London.
office of Mr. Carlisle will complete in 2014.
With due consideration for the contribution of Mr. Carlisle and the results of the The Senior Independent Director, Mr. Anthony Carlisle, is available performance review, it has been determined that Mr. Carlisles to meet institutional shareholders should there be unresolved appointment continue through to the conclusion of 2014, subject to matters they wish to bring to his attention.
The Board is also his re-election by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting apprised of discussions with major shareholders to ensure that to be held in May.
Mr. Carlisle will continue in his capacity as Senior executive and non-executive directors consider any matters which Independent Director until the end of 2014, when Mr. Walker Boyd might be raised by those shareholders and to enable all directors will assume that role.
This includes feedback from the meetings attended by executive directors and the Chairman, Policy on appointment and re-appointment in addition to reports from the Companys advisers on their In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors serving engagement with shareholders on behalf of the Company.
During on the Board stand for re-election annually.
the early part of 2013, the Chairman engaged with a number of shareholders to discuss proposals in connection with executive Mr. Boyd was appointed a non-executive director with effect from directors remuneration.
6December 2013 and has a letter of appointment effective for a three-year term from that date.
In accordance with the Companys Non-executive directors attend the Annual General Meetings and Articles, Mr. Boyd will be offering himself for election at the 2014 will also make themselves available to meet with shareholders on Annual General Meeting being the first Annual General Meeting of other occasions where requested.
Corporate information is available the Company since his appointment.
on the Companys website, www.
Information on the website is not incorporated by reference into the Annual Report Further information on Mr. Boyd who is standing for election and filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on each of the directors standing for re-election is set forth in the Form20-F. Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which is a separate document issued to all shareholders.
Committees of the Board The Board has three Committees, Remuneration, Audit and On appointment, all directors are asked to confirm they have Nomination.
Throughout the year, each of Mr. Allner and Mr. Carlisle sufficient time to devote to their duties which, along with their duties were members of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination and roles, are confirmed in their letter of appointment.
Ms. Vega was a member of the Audit Committee advised that they have access to the advice and services of the throughout the year.
Mr. Stone served as a member of the Company Secretary and, in addition, that they are entitled to seek Remuneration Committee throughout the year and has since May independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, 2013, been Chairman of that Committee.
Until he stood down from ifnecessary, at the Companys expense.
As part of their induction, the Board following the AGM in May 2013, Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio the directors are provided with information explaining their role and was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of duties, in addition to background information on the Company and the Nomination Committee.
Group as well as the function and recent deliberations of the Board and its Committees by way of recent papers and reports, for Mr. Mackintosh chairs the Nomination Committee, is a member example those from the auditors in respect of the most recent full of the Remuneration Committee and attends meetings of the financial year.
In conjunction with his appointment, Mr. Boyd has Audit Committee by invitation.
Mr. Boyd has since his appointment held a number of meetings with members of the Board and in December 2013, been a member of the Audit, Remuneration and executive management, in addition to the Auditors and other Nomination Committees.
advisers to the Company, in order to support his induction.
In accordance with the Code, the duties of the Committees are Directors are also provided with information and assistance in the set out in formal terms of reference.
These are available from the event of any change in their role.
Company Secretary and can be found on the Companys website, www.
Membership of the Committees is shown on pages Indemnities to Directors 52 and 53.
Information on the Companys website is not In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors incorporated by reference into the Annual Report filed with the US are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 20-F.
The Company by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance Secretary acts as secretary to each of the Committees.
Each of their duties in their capacity as directors of the Company.
Committee undertakes an annual review of its terms of reference The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that and makes recommendations to the Board for changes where a director is proven to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Board considers that the terms of reference of The Company has also arranged insurance coverage in respect of these Committees are generally responsive to the relevant NASDAQ legal action against the directors and officers.
rules but may not address all aspects of these rules, see US Listing Requirements on pages 65 to 67.
58 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
