Corporate Governance continued During January 2014, the Directors considered the basis on which As one aspect of ensuring a culture of integrity and encouraging risks affecting the Group were identified, and how management high standards throughout the organisation, the Group has a formal intends to manage the risks going forward, including how action whistle-blowing policy.
The policy provides information on the plans are prioritised.
Arising from that review it was determined process to follow in the event that any employee feels it appropriate that the steps being taken by management were satisfactory.
to make a disclosure where they believe there has been improper The Board receives up-dates on the ongoing actions in addressing conduct or actions which could cause the Groups good standing the principal risks as part of its routine business.
to be called into question.
The policy was most recently updated during 2010 and is published on the Groups intranet site.
All Managing risks employees have been reminded of the existence of the policy and The Board discusses with management the actions it considers its purpose.
The policy has been translated into certain languages necessary to remedy any failings and weaknesses which have been where it was felt the English language version may inhibit a detailed determined to be significant from its review of the system of internal understanding of its terms.
During the early part of 2013, the policy control.
This has involved considering the matters reported to it and was the subject of review in conjunction with external advisers, developing plans and programmes that it considers are reasonable intended to re-fresh the policy to reflect evolving best practice.
Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk A summary of the structures and processes in place to identify and The actions arising from external and internal assessments of risks manage risks across the Group are set out below.
are consolidated and during 2013, the results were reported to the Audit Committee.
Risk profiling There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate risks faced by The Audit Committee assesses the findings and proposed the Group, through the conduct of regular meetings by the Groups actions for addressing residual risks and also advises on areas senior management, and engagement of external consultants for further attention.
where, in the opinion of the Groups senior management, this is considered appropriate.
Internal financial controls The Group has a comprehensive system for regular monitoring and Findings are reported to the Board together with recommended reporting of financial performance and assessing the adequacy of actions for managing the risks and a timetable for implementation of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Risk assessment and appropriate mitigation.
The assessment of prioritised risks is evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
refreshed on a regular basis to reflect changes to the business and This includes assessment of the Groups strategic direction, any observations or proposals arising from events since the last objectives and financial returns and the potential risks that might review.
A schedule of the prioritised risks is developed and reviewed affect achieving them.
by management each quarter to ensure that possible mitigation measures are considered and plans for action agreed.
Responsibility As part of the planning cycle, a detailed budget is prepared by is assigned within the Group for carrying out proposed actions management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by which are also reviewed and up-dated by management.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling forecasting process and regular business review meetings Controlling risk are also held involving senior management worldwide, at which The Group has policies which address a range of key business the Groups overall performance is assessed.
The results of these risks, including financial, treasury, health and safety and the reviews are reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee protection of intellectual property.
The policies are made available to and the Board at each meeting.
A summary of the key financial relevant employees through an intranet site and also via employee and non-financial risks inherent in the Groups business is given briefings on specific topics.
Periodically, reviews are performed in order to verify that ongoing These processes are supported by discrete reviews conducted by practices within relevant parts of the Group comply with current the Internal Auditor and external advisers, as determined by the policies.
In addition, policies are themselves reviewed against best Audit Committee, in addition to the routine audits.
practice and in order to take appropriate account of developments both within or external to the Groups business operations.
For The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of example, during the year, a policy was developed for complying the system of internal controls which were in place throughout the with the new disclosure requirements applying to the Company as financial year and up to the date of signing the Financial Statements a US registrant, on assessing and reporting on the use of so-called for the 52-week period ended 27 December 2013.
More information on our approach to meeting the reporting requirements is set out on page 44.
As part of a process of continuous improvement, steps are ongoing to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Group and to deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and to the Boards attention.
As explained in the Strategic Report on pages 33 and 34, the Group has a Treasury Policy for the placement of cash deposits with financial institutions.
As part of its schedule of matters, and reflecting management recommendations, the Audit Committee considered a revised Treasury Policy in October 2013.
This was subsequently submitted to and formally adopted by the Board.
64 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
