CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Remuneration Committee The Board has further determined that for the purposes of US As at the date of this report, the Chairman of the Remuneration securities laws, Mr. Allner was independent in accordance with the Committee, was Mr. Chris Stone, a position he has held since definition of independence in Rule 5605 a 2 of the listing rules of May2013 following the retirement at that time from the Board theNASDAQ.
The other members of the Committeeat 27 December 2013 were Messrs. Allner, Boyd, The other members of the Audit Committee at 27 December 2013 Carlisle and Mackintosh.
were Mr. Carlisle, Mr. Boyd and Ms. Vega.
Mr. Mackintosh, Chairman of the Board, attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
The principal function of the Remuneration Committee is to The experience and expertise of the members of the Audit establish and review the terms and conditions for the executive Committee are summarised on pages 52 and 53.
The attendance of directors, and the overall policy framework for the remuneration its members is shown in the table on page 67.
Each member of the of other senior executives and the Group as a whole.
The Committee is financially literate, having the necessary ability and Remuneration Committee met three times during the year and the experience to understand financial statements.
attendance of its members is shown in the table on page 67.
The Audit Committee encourages continuous improvement and The report to shareholders on the role of the Remuneration supports management in identifying targets and objectives that Committee and how directors are remunerated, together with details contribute to this aim.
Areas in which the Committee worked with of individual directors remuneration are set out on pages 68 to 84. management in this regard are considered in more detail below.
Nomination Committee Following the retirement of Mr. Allner from the Board, effective Mr. Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, 1 January 2014, Mr. Walker Boyd assumed the role of Chairman of a position he has held since May 2007.
The other members of the the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that Mr. Boyd, a Nomination Committee at 27 December 2013 were Messrs. Allner, Chartered Accountant, possesses recent and relevant financial Boyd and Carlisle.
The qualifications of the directors can be found experience for the purposes of the Code and is an audit committee in the biographies of board members on page 52. financial expert for the purposes of US securities laws.
The Board has further determined that for the purposes of US securities laws, The role of the Nomination Committee is to consider appointments Mr. Boyd is independent in accordance with the definition of to the Board and succession planning at senior levels within the independence in Rule 5605 a 2 of the listing rules of the NASDAQ.
The Nomination Committee reviews the composition of the Board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills, experience Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit Committee and terms of office and seeks to ensure that both executive and Your Audit Committee is integral to the scrutiny which is given non-executive directors have the necessary skills and attributes for bythe Board on the performance of management and the the future success of the Group.
standingof the Group as a whole.
The Nomination Committee retains external search consultants as The Committee regularly assesses the Groups financial integrity appropriate to assist the Committee in identifying candidates for while also ensuring that management establishes and maintains appointments to the Board.
During 2013, the Nomination systems of controls including those concerned with financial Committee engaged Russell Reynolds, executive search reporting and risk management that are balanced and appropriate, consultants, who are independent of the Company, to undertake a and which evolve in a measured manner to reflect changes in the search for suitable candidates for a new non-executive director Group across its various operations.
which culminated in the appointment of Mr. Walker Boyd effective from 6 December 2013.
The Board is satisfied that a robust and Through quarterly meetings which were held during 2013, thorough evaluation was undertaken in connection with Mr. Boyds theCommittee has applied these principles to a range of topics appointment to the Board.
that are part of an established schedule of business, as well as tospecific matters as they might arise.
During 2013, the Nomination Committee did not meet separately, but did meet as part of the formal proceedings of the Board to For example, as with other listed companies, an important area of consider the appointment of Mr. Boyd.
focus has been to consider and plan for the enhanced reporting that became a requirement for listed companies during 2013.
Audit Committee Throughout 2013, Mr. Andrew Allner served as the Chairman of the Your Committee has received reports in connection with these Audit Committee, a position he had held since May 2009.
The Board requirements and discussed with management how to ensure the is satisfied that Mr. Allner, a Chartered Accountant, possessed recent requirements are satisfied.
This has included early consideration of and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and the matters that are set out in this report, including reporting on the is an audit committee financial expert for the purposes of US significant issues considered by the Audit Committee which are set securities laws.
out on pages 62 and 63 and considering the process by which the Board and management can assure themselves that the financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
In connection with these requirements, the Committee has also considered how changes to narrative reporting and work on the enhanced disclosure on remuneration have been planned and executed to support clear and cohesive information for stakeholders.
