CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information requirements of Section 406 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Board A copyof the Executive Ethics Policy may be found at As at 27 December 2013, the Board comprised ten members, www.
Information on the Companys website being the Chairman, Mr. Ron Mackintosh, three executive directors isnot incorporated by reference into the Annual Report filed with and six non-executive directors, one of whom is not independent the USSecurities and Exchange Commission on the Form 20-F. under the provisions of the Code.
Of those in post as at 27December 2013, nine directors including Mr. Mackintosh The following statements describe how the Board operates and had served throughout the year.
the respective roles of the Chairman, non-executive and executive directors.
Role In post In post 1 Jan 2013 27 Dec 2013 Served during 2013 Non-Executive Directors R W Mackintosh Chairman Yes Yes 1 A J Allner Chairman of Audit Committee Yes Yes A E C G Carlisle Senior Independent Director Yes Yes L Gerzberg Non-Executive Director Yes Yes 2 C M R Stone Chairman of Remuneration Committee Yes Yes Ms T M Vega Non-Executive Director Yes Yes Joined in 2013 3 W G Boyd Non-Executive Director No Yes Left in 2013 4 S Giacoletto-Roggio Chairman ofRemuneration Committee Yes No 7 7 Served in 2013 Executive Directors J A J van Beurden Chief Executive Officer Yes Yes D D W Gardiner Chief Financial Officer Yes Yes C A Ladas Operations Director Yes Yes 3 3 Total 10 10 1 Stood down as Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 31 December 2013 2 Appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 22 May 2013 3 Appointed Non-Executive Director on 6 December 2013 and with effect from 1 January 2014, Chairman of the Audit Committee 4 Stood down as Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 22 May 2013 Mr. Ron Mackintosh has served as Chairman of the Board since The Board recognises that Dr. Levy Gerzberg does not satisfy the May 2007 and as a non-executive director of the Company since requirements under the Code as an independent non-executive May 2004.
In the opinion of the Board, on each of his appointments director, based on his previous executive role within Zoran, of as a non-executive director and as Chairman, Mr. Mackintosh whichhe was a co-founder and, at the time of its acquisition by was independent of management.
The Board is satisfied that CSR, was a director on the companys board and held the offices Mr. Mackintosh is able to devote the necessary time commitment of President and Chief Executive Officer.
The Board however to the role of Chairman of the Board.
considers that Dr. Gerzbergs experience and considerable knowledge of Zoran and of its technologies and markets has and Mr. Anthony Carlisle was throughout the year the Senior will continue to contribute significantly to the understanding of the Independent Director, a post he has held since May 2009.
The Board also considers that, in the performance of his Andrew Allner, a chartered accountant with recent and relevant duties, Dr Gerzberg acts in a manner which is independent of financial experience, served throughout the year as Chairman of management and the Company.
the Audit Committee, having held that post since May 2009.
As previously announced, Mr. Allner stood down from the Board with The Board remains satisfied that an appropriate balance of skills effect from 31 December 2013.
Mr. Walker Boyd joined the Board and experience has been in place to enable the Board to perform as a non-executive director on 6 December 2013.
With effect from its responsibilities effectively.
An overview of the balance of skills 1 January 2014, Mr. Boyd assumed the role of Chairman of the and experience on the Board is given below.
Mr. Boyd, a chartered accountant, is considered independent of management and possesses recent and relevant Information on the holdings of directors in the Companys Ordinary financial experience.
Mr. Will Gardiner is the director responsible for Shares and American Depositary Shares can be found on page 88 health and safety.
Mr. Brett Gladden served as Company Secretary of the Directors Report Other Statutory Information.
on the appointment of directors are on page 58, and on directors powers and procedures for amendments to the Companys articles can be found on pages 161 to 162 of the Directors Report Corporate and Share Information.
indb 55 11 03 2014 21:17 Corporate Governance continued Board balance and diversity The process of review and approval of the foregoing matters As already mentioned in this reports introduction, innovation and isundertaken following discussions, in conjunction with senior creativity are critical to the success of the Group and stem directly executive management, who in turn are responsible for the from the skills and capabilities of our people.
This is true at all levels conductof the Groups operations and for reporting to the Board of the Group, including at Board level.
The Board supports diversity on the progress being made in meeting the Groups objectives.
across the organisation as a whole in meeting the Groups strategy.
Theschedule of matters reserved for the Board was reviewed in CSR is present in ten countries, across Europe, North America and December 2013. the Far East, reflecting the Groups evolution through acombination of organic growth and acquisitions.
The Chairmans role is to ensure that the Board functions effectively, overseeing the timely and effective provision of information to the The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of diverse Board and that the business of the Board is properly conducted.
skills and experience which enables it to perform effectively, helping Briefing papers and a meeting agenda are provided to each the Group meet its business objectives.
The Board includes director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by executive and non-executive directors with extensive knowledge of the Board, taking into account, where appropriate, the the background and development of the Group.
We believe that the recommendations of its Committees and advice from external directors have in-depth understanding and skills in industries consultants and executive management.
relevant to those in which the Group operates.
Their experience encompasses the cycle of product research, development, strategic The Board regularly reviews strategy as part of its normal business.
marketing and communications, customer knowledge, and wider This includes holding at least one off-site meeting during each year, corporate development, including financial management and the agenda for which covers a broad range of financial, commercial experience in mergers and acquisitions.
The Board believes that and technical aspects concerning the strategic objectives for the it is important to consider board diversity within the context of Group.
In 2013, the off-site meeting was held in the summer, with ensuring those appointed to it are able to contribute effectively, members of the management team attending and participating in using their relevant skills and knowledge.
As part of the process for reviewing strategy both within its normal business and the off-site review, the The Board acknowledges continuing wider engagement in Board considers the known and potential challenges associated promoting broader diversity on company boards that reflect the with the execution of the objectives.
The Board also considers the gender, ethnicity and cultural backgrounds that make up our risks to the Group in delivering the strategy, assessing society.
The Board is supportive of such matters and is satisfied managements mitigation of identified risks and also to what extent that in its consideration of the composition of the Board and in risks should be accepted in the execution of the Groups executive management, the Company reflects this principle.
More information on how the Board considers risk and Within the Group as a whole, women comprise 19% of our total monitors proposed mitigation is set out on pages 35 to 37. employees or 400 out of a total of 2,146.
Within the executive management team that reports to the CEO, women comprise 11% The non-executive directors of the Board have diverse business, or 1 out of 9 personnel and at board level 11% or 1 of 9.
In the financial and technical experience, details of which are summarised appointment of personnel to roles in the Company, including those on pages 52 and 53.
Each non-executive director plays a full role at Board level, the Company has demonstrated its willingness to in contributing to the determination of agenda items and the promulgate diversity where this is also consistent with ensuring consideration of matters brought before the Board.
This includes: those appointed possess the necessary talent and experience to support the Company and Board in its activities.
considering, approving and monitoring performance against strategic objectives through detailed reviews conducted at Reflecting the global market within which the Group operates, the Board level: Board comprises directors from four different nationalities with providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of experience of managing businesses in each of the continents in prudent and effective controls, which were created to enable which the Group is present.
A detailed biography for each member risks to be assessed and managed: and of the Board is given on pages 52 and 53. setting the Groups values and standards and ensuring that its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are The conduct of the business of the Board understood and met.
The Board and its Committees meet regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis as required by time critical Non-executive directors are expected to constructively challenge business needs.
and contribute to the development of the Groups strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups goals and objectives and monitor the reporting on performance business and is accountable to shareholders for the effective and by management.
proper management and control of the Company and Group and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
These Non-executive directors attend meetings with management outside include the review and approval of: the normal cycle of formal meetings, either to receive updates in areas of specific interest or to discuss the planning and execution Group strategy and long-term plans: of tasks connected with specific matters.
the annual budget and plan: acquisitions and disposals and requests for major capital expenditure: Group financial structure, including tax and treasury: and annual and quarterly financial results and other significant financial matters.
56 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
