CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Risk factors The following section sets out the risks that we have identified as a Various factors could result in us not obtaining an early mover result of the review process undertaken by our executive manageadvantage and missing windows of opportunity for introducing new ment and Board, which is explained in more detail on pages 63 and products and technologies.
Executing on product and technology 64 of our Corporate Governance report.
It reflects the risks that we innovation is highly complex.
In addition, product design and believe could have a material adverse effect on, among other things, development can take 36 months and, in some cases, even longer.
the execution of our strategy, our market share, competitive position, During this time, we may not allocate sufficient resources to business performance, results of operations or financial condition.
These factors can mean that during the course of development, we may encounter unforeseen technical challenges or The management of risk and the ways in which we seek to mitigate be unable to fulfill the objectives as expected, which may result in the impact of such risks forms part of our day to day operations delays and impact our delivery schedules.
In the Strategic Report, on pages 35 to 37, we explain matters which formed part of the reviews undertaken by Moreover, we may be required to meet industry defined standards, management and the Board during 2013. or make changes to reflect the requirements of our customers.
We may also fail to understand market requirements during the Risks associated with ownership of our ordinary shares and planning phase, which may require us to make changes during the American Depositary Shares ADSs can be found on pages 166 development phase.
and 167 of the Directors report Corporate and Share Information.
Each of these issues could delay the development of products or We may fail to understand our customers needs, anticipate technologies, which could impact their launch and delivery, technology trends, or create products for which there is no market.
thereby causing us to miss market opportunities.
Such delays We may not understand or accurately anticipate what future could also lead to existing or potential new customers seeking products, features or technologies our customers want.
While we alternative solutions and placing their business with competitors, invest significantly in research and development to identify potential which could have a material adverse effect on our market share new ideas and technologies, we may invest in the wrong areas, and results of operations.
develop products which fail to meet our customers needs, or fail to pursue product development opportunities that our competitors We may fail to effectively launch new products to the market, or undertake and bring to market.
fail to successfully engage with the right customers due to misunderstanding customers, markets or technology trends.
The risk is also compounded because of the lengthy product Our success firstly depends on the adoption by our customers of design and development cycle of our products and technologies, the technologies we offer, as well as the development and which can take 36 months and, in some cases, even longer.
subsequent growth of the markets to which our products are Therefore, ideas for new products, features or technology that we targeted.
Launching our products successfully involves not only consider to be in line with our customers expectations may, due to offering products and technologies that meet our customers the timeline for design and development, become obsolete and be requirements and market expectations on a timely basis, but also replaced by more compelling products, features and technologies.
promoting and marketing such products effectively so that our customers have good visibility of the products and technologies In addition, we may not have access to the appropriate technology weoffer.
to translate the idea under development into products that our customers and the market require, or those that we have may be Effective engagement with our customers is important.
We may replaced by superior technologies developed by competitors.
launch products and technologies on a timely basis, but such launch may not be successful if we are not able to demonstrate to If we fail to correctly anticipate technology trends, we may create our customers the capabilities or differentiated features of our products or technologies for which there is no market.
If we fail to products at the time we introduce them to market.
Or we may not identify the needs of our either our customers or the market, on a provide the necessary support to ensure our customers are able to timely basis or at all, or we fail to develop the right products or integrate their products with our own, because we do not allocate technologies, we may lose market share to our competitors if they sufficient or the right sales, marketing or technical resources.
In are able to offer customers the products and features which addition, our customers may change their requirements, decide that customers want.
If our products do not have the features or the technologies or products we have been developing are no capabilities which our customers want, we may not achieve the longer suitable or may determine that the products we supply will expected demand for those products or be able to achieve the not fulfill their particular requirements.
Our technologies may, as a desired selling price and therefore generate lower margins and result, decline in importance or be replaced entirely as the prevailing returns on our investment.
Further, if we need to make changes to technology, particularly if customers consider that superior our products, to meet customer requirements, we may incur technologies are being offered by competitors.
additional research and development costs and delay the delivery of the re-designed products.
Any of the foregoing could materially Furthermore, our success depends upon the success of our adversely affect our business and results of operations.
customers products in the marketplace.
Even if customers do adopt our solutions, in the event that their own products are We may fail to develop new products on a timely basis or implement unsuccessful, or expected adoption of new ideas fails to occur, on our product development roadmaps effectively.
a timely basis or at all, our business may also be materially Meeting our strategic objectives and growing our business is adversely affected.
Moreover, our customers may not have or be dependent on our ability on a timely basis to convert the ideas in able to maintain market leading positions in their product which we invest our research and development resources into segments, may suffer delays in the introduction of the endinnovative and differentiated semiconductor and platform solutions product in the market, may not have the required marketing and for existing and new markets.
In our industry, being early to distribution capabilities, or may fail to anticipate demand for their market is increasingly significant for sustaining a leadership product.
Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on position and being able to set high selling prices, which in turn the success of the end-product and, therefore, on our products impacts ourprofitability.
