CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Controls and procedures under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act US listing requirements The Group is subject to the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley The Companys American depositary shares are listed on NASDAQ Act of 2002.
In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Company is, therefore, subject to the rules of NASDAQ and requires a report of management on the effectiveness of the US securities laws and the rules of the SEC applicable to foreign Groups internal control over financial reporting.
As part of its private issuers.
NASDAQ requires US companies listed on the internal audit process, the Group has a programme for the review exchange to comply with NASDAQs corporate governance rules.
of its internal control over financial reporting to ensure compliance Foreign private issuers, such as the Company, have certain with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
accommodations in light of their compliance with the rules and The Companys management is responsible for establishing and practices of their country of domicile and therefore are exempt from maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and most of the requirements promulgated by NASDAQ.
As a company the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer listed in the UK, the Company is subject to the Code, Accordingly, have issued their report attesting to the Groups compliance with pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5615, the Company is required Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as at 27 December 2013. to disclose a summary of any material ways in which the corporate Managements certification and the independent auditors opinion governance practices of the Company differ from those required by on internal control over financial reporting are reported as required NASDAQ for US companies.
The material differences are as follows: in the Companys SEC filings.
Independence During the 52-week period ended 27 December 2013, there have The NASDAQ rules require that a majority of the Board be not been any changes in the Groups internal control over financial comprised of independent directors and the rules include reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to detailed definitions that US companies must use for materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
The executive management, with the participation of the Chief The Code requires that at least half the Board excluding the Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the Chairman should comprise independent non-executive directors.
effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15 e and 15d-15 e under the US Securities The Companys Board currently comprises three executive Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act as at directors, six non-executive directors and the Chairman.
Based on such evaluation the Chief Executive accordance with the Code, the Chairman of the Board of Directors Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as at 27 December and Dr Gerzberg are not considered independent.
2013, the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that the information which the Group is required to While the Board does not explicitly take into consideration disclose in the reports that are filed or submitted under the Exchange NASDAQs detailed definitions of independence, it has carried Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time out an assessment based on the requirements of the Code periods specified in the SECs rules and forms and that such and has determined in its judgment that, with the exception of information is accumulated and communicated to management, Dr. Gerzberg, the non-executive directors are independent within including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as those requirements.
the principal executive and financial officers, respectively, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Nomination of Directors NASDAQ rules require that nominees to a companys board of Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief directors be selected, or recommended for the boards selection, Financial Officer concluded that the Groups disclosure controls and either by a majority of the companys independent directors or by a procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appointments and makes recommendations to the Board in relation The management of CSR plc is responsible for establishing and to new appointments of executive and non-executive directors and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as on succession planning, board composition and balance.
It is such term is defined in Rule 13a-15 f of the Securities Exchange chaired by the Chairman of the Board, and its other members are Act of 1934 for CSR plc.
Under the supervision and with the non-executive directors.
Under NASDAQ rules, the Chairman of the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Board is not considered independent: therefore the Nomination Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of Committee does not meet the requirements of the NASDAQ rules.
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based principally on the framework and criteria established in Committees Internal Control Integrated Framework 1992 issued by the NASDAQ rules require US companies to have a nominations Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway committee, an audit committee and a compensation committee, Commission as at 27December 2013.
Based on that evaluation, each composed entirely of independent directors, with the our management has concluded that our internal control over nominations committee and the audit committee required to financial reporting was effective as at 27 December 2013.
Deloitte have a written charter that addresses the committees purpose LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited and responsibilities.
the consolidated financial statements included in the Form 20-F and, as part of the audit, has issued a report, included herein, on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.
com 65 [COMMENT FOR DESIGNERS CONSIDER HOW WE CAN DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN THE AUDIT REPORT AND z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 65 11 03 2014 21:17 THE REMAINDER OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FROM THIS POINT ONWARDS]
