CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Taxation exclusion of such charges from the Groups underlying results.
Provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level of The Committee were satisfied with the reasons for excluding such deferred tax recognition are underpinned by a range of management charges and benchmarking provided by Deloitte demonstrated that judgments.
During 2013 the Committee received reports from CSR follows reporting that is in line with our market peer group.
management on the potential current and future tax liabilities for the Group, and considered the appropriateness of positions taken along Internal control side external professional advice where necessary.
Philosophy and policy The objective of the directors and senior management is to Litigation provisioning safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of Contingent assets or liabilities may arise from legal proceedings the Group.
Part of this objective requires the development of undertaken by the Group, the valuation of which is an area requiring relevant policies and appropriate internal controls to ensure proper judgment from management.
It is recognized that this is an area management of the Companys resources and the identification of with considerable uncertainty and potential outcomes which are risks that may serve to undermine them.
not always capable of being predicted.
The Committee receives detailed updates on litigation affecting the Group, as well as The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of briefings on the overall litigation environment.
This is led by internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The systems and management and supported by external advice where appropriate.
processes established by the Board are designed to manage, rather In addition, management provides the Committee with reports than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and detailing the basis of valuation for any litigation provisions carried at provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against misstatement the end of each financial period.
The basis for this analysis is also or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the review of shared with our auditors who have access to information and practices and procedures to the Audit Committee.
The Companys personnel who have contributed to the analysis and the Committee senior management, in conjunction with external advisers, are discusses with these parties the work which has been conducted responsible for undertaking periodic reviews of the suitability of and conclusions arising from that work as part of preparing and current systems on which they report to the Audit Committee.
finalising the financial statements and any supporting disclosures.
The Audit Committee considers the findings from such reviews Inventory valuation to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes The Group maintains inventory based on its forecast assessment of implemented by senior management.
This includes discussions with future orders for its products.
A variety of circumstances can affect senior management of the Group and consideration of reports that demand for our products and as a result impact inventory which have been submitted.
These findings are in turn regularly reviewed we hold.
These include for example the introduction by us, or our and discussed by the full Board.
The Board is satisfied that this competitors, or customers of new products.
In addition changes in process accords with the internal control guidance for directors set end consumer requirements can also have a significant impact on out in the Turnbull Report Internal Control: the Revised Guidance sales of our products and therefore affect the levels of inventory we for Directors on the Combined Code and that through its interface hold.
The level of inventory provisioning is sensitive to changes in with management, the Board is aware of the major risks facing the this forecast demand which is based upon assumptions which Group and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks, so includes considering the macro-economic environment, as well as far as is possible.
managements interpretation of the specific needs and circumstances of our customers.
A risk evaluation process has been in place throughout 2013 and was in place up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and The Groups policy on provisioning for inventory has been reviewed the financial statements.
The risk evaluation process has been the and approved by the Committee.
The carrying value of inventory is subject of review by the Audit Committee during 2013.
This reported to the Audit Committee, and the level of provisioning ongoing review included an update on the progress in addressing discussed at its meetings with management and the auditors.
the disclosure and management of key risks affecting the Group.
During September 2013, KPMG LLP was appointed to support Share-Based payments management in the conduct of a comprehensive review of the The Group issues share options and share awards to employees, Groups approach to the identification, scoring, ranking and so as to both incentivise and retain employees.
Each time a new measures for mitigating risk across all aspects of the Groups grant of share options or share awards are issued, a charge is activities.
This has included support with the annual review of risks recognised in the Group IFRS income statement over the vesting which might affect the Group which is conducted across all period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
KPMG have supported management in the conduct of these assessments since 2010.
The charge recognised is calculated based on managements assumptions about the number of shares that will become The executive leadership reviews the results of these scores and exercisable, including our assessment of the macro-economic the ranking of risks.
In their review, the executive leadership environment, forecast share price, behavioural considerations and considers how the risks might impact upon the achievement of the expected employee turnover.
As these factors may be volatile Groups strategic objectives and the overall performance of the and are outside the direct control of CSR, the Group chooses to business.
Where a risk is considered to be material, a member of exclude any share-based payment charge from our underlying the executive leadership is made responsible for developing a plan results, as further explained on page 150. intended to mitigate against the risk actually occurring or to respond in the event the risk were to occur.
During 2013, the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee have reviewed the purpose and impact of CSRs share-based The plans are the subject of review by the Audit Committee of the reward and incentive schemes.
In addition the Audit Committee material risks each half year.
has assessed how CSR report these charges and specifically the www.
