Corporate governance Corporate governance statement Chairman and ChiefExecutive Non-Executive Directors The Board is responsible for providing Our Non-Executive Directors contribute leadership, setting the Groups strategic international operational know-how and objectives and key policies, ensuring were chosen for their wide range of skills appropriate resources are in place to enable and experience.
They understand the sectors the Group to meet its objectives, reviewing we operate in, and have valuable knowledge the Groups performance and overseeing of international capital markets.
In addition the Groups internal control systems, and is they bring in-depth understanding of the responsible to shareholders for the proper health, safety, environmental, political and management of the Group.
At the end of the community challenges we face.
period of this report, the Board comprised Each Non-Executive Director is appointed for a Non-Executive chairman, three Executive a three-year fixed term, renewable by mutual Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors Afren benefits from an experienced Board appointment letters are available for which has extensive experience and inspection at the Companys registered office.
relationships alongside a broad range of The Non-Executive Directors: commercial, financial and other relevant scrutinise, measure and review the expertise.
Brief biographies are included on performance of management pages 78 to 79.
The Nomination Committee periodically reviews the composition of assist in strategy development the Board including the balance between review the Groups financial information Executive and Non-Executive Directors and considers succession planning for both ensure appropriate and effective systems Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and of internal control and risk management the Groups senior management.
It is also review the relationship with the responsible for the process for new Board external auditors through the Audit appointments and makes recommendations and Risk Committee to the Board on the appointment of new Directors, and is responsible for ensuring review the remuneration of, and appointments are made on merit and against succession planning for, the Board.
Senior Independent Director In making appointments to the Board, the Mr Toby Hayward is the Senior Independent Nomination Committee considers the skills, Director.
Mr Hayward was selected for the experience and knowledge of the existing role because of his experience and expertise.
Directors and assesses which of the potential Mr Hayward is available to shareholders who candidates would bring the most benefit have concerns that cannot be addressed to the Board.
It considers the potential through normal channels.
candidates knowledge and experience of Independence of the territories in which we operate, the oil and gas industry, capital markets and the Non-Executive Directors regulatory environment, and, in the case The independence of each of the Nonof Non-Executive Director appointments, Executive Directors is considered upon that they have sufficient time to devote to appointment, annually and at any other time the role.
The Chairman ensures any new a Directors circumstances change in a way Directors are provided with a full induction that warrants reconsideration.
Following a on joining the Board.
Non-Executive review of Board composition, the Company Directors are appointed for an initial term has reassessed the independence of all of three years, which may be extended by its Non-Executive Directors.
It regards all mutual agreement subject to satisfactory as independent within the meaning of performance.
The letters of appointment of the term as defined in the UK Corporate each Non-Executive Director are available for GovernanceCode.
inspection at the Companys registered office.
Afren plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance The Board has a policy it uses to determine to exercise objective, unfettered and Board composition the independence of its Directors.
This states independent judgement or their ability that the test of independence is whether toactin the best interests of our business.
the Director is independent of management Non-Executive Directors 6 In the case of Mr St. John, the Board has and any business or other relationship that Executive Directors 3 considered the fact that he is a shareholder could materially interfere with their exercise Chairman 1 in St. John Advisors Ltd and a partner in of objective, unfettered and independent STJAdvisors LLP, two companies in the judgement or their ability to act in the best financial advisory sector with which Afren has interests of the shareholders.
It is Mr St. Johns Where a Director is considered by the breadth of expertise, experience, knowledge Board to be independent, but is affected and connections gained while providing by circumstances that may give rise to a capital markets advice to companies that perception that they are not, the Board brings significant value to the Board.
Prior will explain the reasons it has reached its to Mr St. Johns appointment, the Board conclusion.
The Board considers relationships assessed the relationships between Afren and with management, major shareholders, St. John Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisors LLP.
associated companies and other parties with Itremains satisfied that Mr St. John is able to whom the Group transacts business against apply objective, unfettered and independent predetermined materiality thresholds, all of judgement and act in the best interests of the which are set out in the policy.
Company, regardless of these relationships.
Tested against this policy, the Board considers In addition, any commercial dealings with that each of the Non-Executive Directors these companies have been approved by has retained independence of character the independent Non-Executive Directors, and judgement and has not formed and will be re-assessed should they continue associations with management or others that in the future.
Mr St. John and the Executive might compromise their ability to exercise Directors absent themselves fully from independent judgement or act in the best thesedeliberations.
Transactions during the year that amounted The Board gave particular consideration to related party transactions under the tothe independence of Mr Peter Bingham International Financial Reporting Standards and Mr John St. John.
This is because, IFRS are outlined in note 5.11 to the historically, Non-Executive Directors were financial statements.
The Company does not eligible for share option awards prior to the consider the level of fees paid to St. John Companys admission to the Official List Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisors LLP to be of the United Kingdom Listing Authority in material to either business.
Mr Bingham exercised all with Directors, including Mr St. John, qualify his options in September 2013.
Mr Bingham under the exemption for smaller related party has been a Director of the Company for transactions in respect of the Related Party approximately nine years and will step down Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Board composition after the next AGM.
Mr St. John is the only independent Non-Executive Director who still The Board considers that there is an has unexercised options.
The Share Option appropriate balance between Executive Scheme Rules were amended in November and Non-Executive Directors for governing 2009 to prohibit the award of share options the business effectively and promoting to Non-Executive Directors.
It also considers that admission to the Official List, no share options both Executive and Non-Executive Directors have been granted to any Non-Executive have the necessary skills, knowledge and Director.
We take the view that this does experience to enable them to govern the not affect the independence of the Nonbusiness effectively.
The Chairman and Executive Directors.
For more information see Non-Executive Directors met twice during the the Directors Remuneration Report.
financial year without the Executive Directors being present.
Some of the Directors hold, or previously held, positions in companies we have A summary of the skills and experience of the commercial relationships with.
The Board Board is shown in the diagram on page 77. has assessed all of these relationships and concluded that, in all cases, the relationships do not interfere with the Directors ability Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Corporate governance C orporate governance statement continued The Board reviewed succession planning Succession: Board and Board meeting attendance in consultation with the Nomination committee membership in 2013 Committee.
It considered in detail the skills Since the beginning of 2013, the following During the year the Board held five scheduled which will be desirable for non-executive changes have taken place to the composition Board meetings.
In addition to the five appointments, and it kept under review of the Board: scheduled meetings, the Board also met on the steps being taken to identify further a quorate basis on five occasions to address non-executive appointments.
The Board Ms Sheree Bryant joined the Board as specific matters.
considered the issue of Board diversity, Non-Executive Director in October 2013 therecommendations made by Lord Davies Key activities of the Ms Sheree Bryant joined the Nomination in his report entitled Women on Boards, Committee in October 2013. and the FRCs consultation on proposed Board in 2013 consequential changes to the UK Corporate Mr Bingham has been a Director of the Performance GovernanceCode.
Company for approximately nine years and A summary of the Boards key activities will step down as Chairman of the Audit during 2013 is shown on page 85.
As well The Board considers that, during 2013, & Risk Committee after the next AGM, as the consideration of performance and anappropriate mix of its time was allocated as the Board is mindful of the need to strategic matters, the Board received detailed between strategic and operational matters ensure appropriate succession planning is briefings on specific aspects of compliance and governance-related issues, including in place, and of the potential impairment and corporate governance which affect the remuneration strategy.
to independence that can occur when a Company and the Group, the Board and their Non-Executive Director has held tenure for a respective obligations.
This has been part The Board received a briefing on the Groups of the Boards agenda for 2014. anti-corruption policies and procedures and the recommended enhancements following Meetings of the Board an internal review to ensure continued best The Directors have collective responsibility practice, and the UK Bribery Act and its for the conduct of the Groups business.
It is associated guidance, and will look to approve expected that all Directors attend scheduled a revised version of the Afren Code of Board and relevant committee meetings, Business Conduct to take effect in 2014. unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments, and that all Directors will attend the AGM.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the papers scheduled for discussion at the relevant meetings, giving them the opportunity toraise any issues and give any comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Atable detailing the Directors attendance at each of the Companys scheduled Board and committee meetings during 2013 is includedbelow.
Board and committee meeting attendance in 2013 Committees Name Number ofBoard meetings attended Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Egbert Imomoh, Chairman 8 10 3 3 Osman Shahenshah, Chief Executive 10 10 Shahid Ullah, Chief Operating Officer 3 10 Darra Comyn, Group Finance Director 10 10 Peter Bingham, Non-Executive Director 8 10 2 3 4 4 Toby Hayward, Senior Non-Executive Director 9 10 3 3 3 3 4 4 Ennio Sganzerla, Non-Executive Director 9 10 3 3 3 3 4 4 John St. John, Non-Executive Director 7 10 Patrick Obath, Non-Executive Director 9 10 3 3 2 4 Sheree Bryant, Non-Executive Director 2 2 Joined on 31 October 2013 Chairman of Committee Afren plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Board activities 2013 In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or Board diversity potential conflict, the Directors must consider The Board recognises that effective their general duties under the Companies Act % management of a London-listed African 2006.
The procedure operates to ensure the Strategic & operational 35 and Middle-East focused business involves disclosure of conflicts, and for non-conflicted Governance related issues 41 full consideration of diversity matters in our Directors to consider and, if appropriate, Board oversight 16 appointment procedures for staff at all levels authorise them.
The Nomination Committee Other matters 8 of the business.
These include factors such as supports the Board in this process, both by socio-economic background, culture and creed, reviewing requests from Directors, and by nationality, age and gender the number of making recommendations to the Board.
persons of each sex who were employed by the Itcan also review any situations of actual Group at 31 December 2013 is shown on the Tenure of Non-Executive Directors orpotential conflict the Board has previously chart opposite.
The current Board, for example, authorised, and make recommendations consists of nationals from the United Kingdom, astowhether they remain appropriate.
Africa and beyond with a variety of personal 0-1 years 1 attributes.
We believe this representation Information and 2-3 years 1 provides a strong mix of views and experience 4-5 years 2 professional development to support our decision-making processes and 6-10 years 3 leadership activities.
All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board, tailored to their experience, During our search for additional Non-Executive background and areas of focus.
NonDirectors during the year, we ensured that the Executive Directors also receive a full briefing consultancies that we used fully considered All employees by gender on all areas of the Companys business diversity matters as part of their activities.
from the Executive Directors, the Company Wealso made it clear that we would not accept Secretary and other senior executives, and male-only candidate shortlists and we eventually they may request any further information Male 181 appointed Ms Sheree Bryant, the Companys they feel is necessary.
The Chairman agrees Female 113 first female Director, during the year.
the induction plan for each new Director We hope to develop our representation of and ensures it is appropriate.
All Directors diversity at senior management and Board receive regular briefings to update their skills level in the coming years.
Clearly this aim will and knowledge, for example on legal and be conducted in tandem with the need to regulatory requirements.
make appointments on merit and with regard Following her appointment to the Board as to an appropriate balance of skills, experience, a Non-Executive Director, Ms Sheree Bryant independence and knowledge on the Board.
attended induction briefings covering the The Board is pleased, however, to note the Groups strategy, its organisational structure increasing numbers of women amongst its and its business functions and activities, senior management team.
These include Anne including its statutory reporting cycle and Vallely, our General Counsel, and Jane Barker, financing principles, operational activities, our Head of Human Resources.
Both regularly information technology strategy and legal attend Board meetings in an advisory capacity.
She also attended sessions addressing corporate governance, Conflicts of interest incompliance with the terms of our Premium The Board has formal procedures for Listing status.
managing compliance with the conflicts ofinterest provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
We have procedures for disclosing andreviewing any conflicts of interest, actual or potential, the Directors may have, and theCompanys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise situational conflicts.
Directors must give advance notice of any conflict issues to the Company Secretary, andthese are considered at the following Board meeting.
The Board conducts an annual review of all previously authorised situational conflicts, considering each one afresh.
Directors are excluded from the quorum and the vote on any matters they have an interest in.
The Board may review theauthorisation of a conflict matter, andtheterms of authorisation, at any time.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Corporate governance C orporate governance statement continued Communications with shareholders Evaluation of Board Key conclusions of the 2013 regarding business strategy and financial performance evaluation performance are co-ordinated by the Investor The Board had continued to make progress Relations department, which reports to the The Board undertakes a rigorous review of both year on year and since the first review Acquisitions and Investor Relations Director.
its performance and that of its committees conducted by ABC in May 2011 and continues Communications regarding the general each financial year.
In March 2014, Armstrong to be effective.
The review suggested further administration of shareholdings are coBonham Carter LLP ABC conducted a Board improvement in the development of strategy, ordinated by the Company Secretary.
review which took the form of a facilitated Board composition in relation to diversity and self-evaluation by the Board.
The review The Group conducts an investor relations succession plans, independent benchmarking included the completion of confidential, programme with institutional investors, of the EHSS function and understanding unattributed questionnaires by each Board analysts and the media.
member, the Company Secretary and Head presentations and roadshows, as well as of HR which covered corporate governance, The review also reported that the Groups a regular series of one-to-one and group Board effectiveness, strategy development, Committees had continued toimprove meetings and, twice a year, an Investor risk management and Board and Committee theireffectiveness.
event involving detailed presentations on organisation, composition, operation and the Companys strategy and performance.
Each Director assessed themselves, Shareholder communication We publish investor presentations on and all the other Directors against a number www.
com and results presentations The Board maintains a dialogue with ofpersonal effectiveness criteria.
The Chairman are available by webcast during the year.
investors, aimed at ensuring a mutual was also assessed on his ability to create the Additionally, this Annual Report and our understanding of objectives.
Its primary conditions for overall Board effectiveness and Half Year Results Announcement, which contact is through the Executive Directors, for setting the tone at the top are sent to all registered shareholders, but the Chairman and the Chief Executive contain extensive information about the also contact major shareholders periodically The facilitators collated and analysed the Groupsactivities.
and in advance of the Annual General results from each element of the evaluation Meeting AGM each year, to understand and prepared separate reports, summarising The Board welcomes enquiries from individual their views on the Company and to ensure key points and including unattributed shareholders, both on matters relating to their their views are communicated to the Board comments given in individual responses.
shareholdings and the business of the Group.
Similarly, the Senior Independent The Board and Director reports were initially It also encourages shareholders to attend the Director and the other Non-Executive discussed with the Chairman.
AGM to discuss the Groups progress, make Directors are available to meet with their views known and to raise any matters The Board report was then presented by majorshareholders.
The Company reports Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP at a Board formally to shareholders twice a year with At least twice a year, the Acquisitions meeting.
Directors received a copy of the itshalf-year and full-year results.
and Investor Relations Director presents report on their own effectiveness and these areport to the Board on investor relations were discussed by the Chairman with each Annual General Meeting generally, identifying the key issues raised Director as appropriate.
The Chairman received by institutional shareholders.
In addition, The Companys AGM provides all shareholders feedback on his performance from the Senior the Board receives a report at each of its with the opportunity to develop further their Independent Director.
meetings on any changes to the holdings understanding of the Company.
Shareholders of the Companys main institutional can ask questions of the full Board on the shareholders.
Specific issues raised by matters put to the meeting, including the individual institutions are also reported Annual Report and the running of the totheBoard, as appropriate.
The Company intends to send to shareholders the Notice of AGM and any related papers at least 20 working days before the meeting.
AllDirectors are invited to attend each AGM.
Atthe AGM, theChairman presents a review of the Groups business.
Afren plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Company Secretary Insurance cover Board Committees Mr Elekwachi Ukwu is the Company The Company maintains Directors and The Board has established four principal Secretary.
An England and Wales solicitor, Officers liability insurance cover, the level Board committees it has delegated MrUkwu has also been called to the Nigerian ofwhich is reviewed annually.
The Company Secretary is responsible and Risk, Remuneration, Nomination and Election and re-election for developing, implementing and sustaining Disclosure Committees, each having defined high standards of corporate governance.
terms of reference that are summarised The Board is committed to openness in Hiskey responsibilities include: onthe following pages and available in full determining Board membership.
Under on the Company website.
The Board is kept the Companys Articles of Association keeping abreast of legislation, regulation up to date on the activities of the committees the Directors are subject to re-election by and corporate governance developments through reports from the Committee shareholders every year in accordance with which impact the business and advising the Chairmen at each Board meeting.
A summary the recommendations of UK Corporate Board and management accordingly: of the operations ofthese committees is set Governance Code.
supporting the Chairman and other Board out on the following pages.
members as necessary, including the Share Dealing Code All Directors have access to the services management of Board and committee The Company has a Share Dealing Code ofthe Company Secretary, and independent meetings and their evaluation, advising which covers dealings by Directors, Persons professional advice is available to the Directors onDirectors duties and facilitating Discharging Managerial Responsibilities at the Groups expense.
information flows: PDMR, and relevant employees.
The code complies with the provisions set out in the when appropriate, providing a discreet Model Code contained in Annex 1 to Listing butchallenging voice to the Board: Rule 9 of the UK Listing Authority Rules.
communicating with shareholders and Itrestricts dealings in shares and other other stakeholders and ensuring that the relevant securities by PDMRs and employees Board is kept informed of their opinions: during designated prohibited periods and and at any time when they are in possession ofunpublished, price-sensitive information.
advising the Group on compliance with statutory and regulatory governance Market disclosure requirements.
We aim to maintain the highest standards All Directors have access to the Company of disclosure.
These ensure that all investors Secretary, whom the Board has the power and potential investors have the same timely to appoint and remove.
Shirin Johri stepped access to relevant information, to assist them down as Group General Counsel and in making informed decisions.
We publish Company Secretary on 31 December 2013. copies of announcements to the market, investor presentations, the Annual Report andother relevant information on our website.
The Disclosure Committee is responsible forimplementing and monitoring systems and controls for management and disclosure of inside information, and for ensuring that regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued by the Company comply with relevant legal or regulatory requirements.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 Corporate governance C orporate governance statement continued Dear Shareholder Nomination Committee This year proved to be another busy one for the Nomination Committee.
Following the decision by the Board to appoint a further Non-Executive Director, the Committee initiated an extensive selection process to identify suitable candidates to join the Board.
With the assistance of specialist recruitment consultants, Odgers Berndtson, itundertook Egbert Imomoh a planned recruitment exercise to agreed Chairman of Nomination Committee criteria for the role, shortlisting two candidates from an initial long list.
Each Committee member met the final candidates E Ef ff fe ec ct tiiv five en ne es ss o s of t f the N he No om miin na at tiio on C n Co om mm miit tt te ee e and the Committee recommended .
Who is on the Nomination Committee?
The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Egbert Imomoh Chairman, We remain committed to our aspiration that Mr Ennio Sganzerla, Mr Toby Hayward and Ms Sheree Byrant.
a significant proportion of our Board should Member No.
In the case of Ms Sheree Mr Egbert Imomoh Chairman 3 3 Bryants appointment as Non-Executive Mr Ennio Sganzerla 3 3 Director in 2013, we asked our search consultants to ensure that female candidates Mr Toby Hayward 3 3 were included on our long and short lists for Members who joined during the year: the role, and ultimately concluded that Sheree Ms Sheree Bryant was the best candidate.
We are currently IIn ntr tro od duc ucti tio on n considering a number of candidates for appointment to the Board.
Mr Peter Bingham T Th he N e No om miin na at tiio on C n Co omm mmiit tt te ee m e me ee et ts a s at l t le ea as st o t on nc ce a y e a ye ea ar t r to r o re ev viie ew s w su uiit ta ab blle e will step down from his role as Chairman of c ca an nd diid da at te es f s fo or a r ap pp po oiin nt tm me en nt a t as D s Diir re ec ct to or rs s, a, an nd r d re ec co omm mme en nd t d th he em t m to t o th he B e Bo oa ar rd d.. the Audit and Risk Committee after the AGM IIt r t re eg gu ulla ar rlly r y re ev viie ew ws t s th he s e st tr ru uc ct tu ur re e, si, siz ze a e an nd c d co om mp po osi sit tiio on o n of t f th he B e Bo oa ar rd d, i, in nc cllu ud diin ng g in June 2014, and we hope to recommend t th he sk e skiilllls s, k, kn no ow wlle ed dg ge a e an nd e d ex xp pe er riie en nc ce r e re eq qu uiir re ed d. I.
It f t fo ollllo ow ws a f s a fo or rm ma all, r, riig go or ro ou us s acandidate to the Board to replace him a an nd o d op pe en p n pr ro oc ce ed du ur re f e fo or a r ap pp po oiin nt tiin ng n g ne ew B w Bo oa ar rd D d Diir re ec ct to or rs s, b, ba as se ed o d on m n me er riit a t an nd d inthis role.
We will continue to ask our search o ob bjje ec ct tiive five c cr riit te er ria.
consultants to include female candidates The Nomination Committee met three times during the year to recruit The Nomination Committee met three times during the year to recruit insearches.
We are committed to appointing additional Non-Executive Directors and to consider the composition of the additional Non-Executive Directors and to consider the composition of the new Directors on merit, while seeking Board.
It appointed independent recruitment consultants to assist the searches Board.
It appointed independent recruitment consultants to assist the searches to strengthen the diversity of the Board.
TheCommittee will continue to monitor diversity for the Group asawhole.
T Th he C e Co om mm miit tt te ee e s a s ac ct tiiv viit tiie es d s du ur riin ng 2 g 20 01 13 3 A Ap pp po oiin nt tm me en nt o t of a n f a ne ew w F Fo ollllo ow wiin ng t g th he a e ab bo ov five p e pr ro oc ce es ss s, t, th he C e Co omm mmiit tt te ee e N No on n- -E Ex xe ec cu ut tiv ive e D Diir re ec cto tor r r re ec co omm mme en nd fide ed a n d a ne ew N w No on n- -E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e D Diir re ec ct to or t r to e o en ns su ur re t e th he B e Bo oa ar rd i d is s s su up pp po or rt te ed d a ap pp pr ro op pr riia at te elly y a an nd ds str tren eng gth then ene ed d.. Egbert Imomoh E Ex xiis sti ting ng B Bo oa ar rd d s str truc uct tu ur re e T Th he C e Co omm mmiit tt te ee c e co on nd du uc ct te ed a t d a th ho or ro ou ug gh h Chairman of the Nomination Committee r re ev viie ew w, a, an nd d d fide eb ba at te ed t d th he sk e skiilllls a s an nd d d diiv five er rsi sit ty y 26 March 2014 o of t f th he e e ex xiis st tiin ng B g Bo oa ar rd m d me em mb be er rsh ship ip, t, to e o en ns su ur re e t th he B e Bo oa ar rd h d ha as t s th he a e ap pp pr ro op pr riia at te b e ba alla an nc ce o e of sk f skiilllls s and experience to support the development and experience to support the development ofthe business.
Suitability of future The Committee reviewed the Board and Suitability of future The Committee reviewed the Board and Board structure Committee composition following the Board structure committee composition following the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director appointment of a new Non-Executive Director Afren plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Dear Shareholder Audit and Risk Committee I will be stepping down as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, having held the role for the last two years and having been amember for the last nine years.
The Committees role is to provide support tothe Board on areas of risk which have grown substantially as the business has expanded and on the communication of Peter Bingham these through the Groups financial reporting Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee and audit processes, and the impact Corporate Governance has added to the work of the Committee.
E Ef ff fe ec ct tiiv five en ne es ss o s of t f the A he Au ud diit a t an nd R d Riis sk C k Co om mm miit tt te ee e We continue to work closely with senior W Wh ho i o is o s on t n th he A e Au ud diit a t an nd R d Riis sk C k Co om mm miit tt te ee e?
management and our external auditors T Th he m e me em mb be er rs o s of t f th he A e Au ud diit a t an nd R d Riisk C sk Co omm mmiit tt te ee a e ar re l e liis st te ed b d be ello ow w. T. Th he B e Bo oa ar rd d and adetailed resum of our discussions at n no ot te es t s th ha at M t Mr T r To ob by H y Ha ay ywa war rd d, a c, a ch ha ar rt te er re ed a d ac cc co ou un nt ta an nt t, h, ha as r s re ec ce en nt fin t fina an nc ciia all meetings during 2013 form part of this report.
e ex xp per eriienc ence e th thr rou oug gh h h hiis s p pr re ev viiou ous s a an nd d c cu ur rr ren ent t r ro olle es, s, a an nd d th tha at t E En nn niio o S Sg ga an nz zer erlla a a an nd d We derive considerable comfort from the P Pa at tr riic ck O k Ob ba at th h h ha av five a r e a ra an ng ge o e of r f re elle ev va an nt fin t fina an nc ciia al a l an nd c d co omm mme er rc ciia al e l ex xp pe er riie en nc ce e.. appointment of a Senior Internal Audit Member No.
of meetings Manager which has improved our knowledge Mr Peter Bingham Chairman 2 3 of, and provided comfort in, the area of controls throughout the Group.
Mr Toby Hayward 3 3 Mr Ennio Sganzerla 3 3 We reviewed the Companys current controls Mr Patrick Obath 3 3 for anti-bribery legislation and the treatment of EHSS issues and were satisfied that they IIn ntr tro od duc ucti tio on n are compliant with guidelines but are an T Th he r e ro olle o e of t f th he A e Au ud diit a t an nd R d Riisk C sk Co omm mmiit tt te ee i e is t s to o o ov five er rs se ee t e th he a e ac cc co ou un nt tiin ng g, ongoing area of focus for improvement fin fina an nc ciia al r l re ep po or rt tiin ng g, i, in nt te er rn na al c l co on nt tr ro ol a l an nd r d riisk m sk ma an na ag ge em me en nt p t pr ro oc ce es ss se es o s of t f th he e in2014.
C Co om mp pa an ny y, a, as w s we elll a l as m s mo on niit to or riin ng t g th he q e qu ua alliit ty o y of t f th he a e au ud diit p t pr ro oc ce es ss o s of C f Co om mp pa an ny y The main audit and risk item considered a an nd G d Gr ro ou up fin p fina an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts s.. inthe year was that related to the valuation T Th he C e Co omm mmiit tt te ee a e alls so e o en ns su ur re es t s th ha at t t th he B e Bo oa ar rd r d re eg gu ulla ar rlly a y as ss se es ss se es b s bu usi sin ne es ss r s riisk sks s, of intangible exploration and evaluation r riisk m sk ma an na ag ge em me en nt a t an nd r d riisk m sk miit tiig ga at tiio on s n st tr ra at te eg giie es s. I.
In d n do oiin ng s g so o, t, th he C e Co omm mmiit tt te ee e assets.
These are accounted for using r re elliie es o s on r n re ep po or rt ts a s an nd i d in np pu ut f t fr ro om e m ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five a e an nd s d se en niio or m r ma an na ag ge em me en nt t, a, an nd d the successful efforts method and the t th he e e ex xt te er rn na al a l au ud diit to or rs s, a, an nd o d on t n th he o e ou ut tp pu ut ts o s of i f in nt te er rn na al a l au ud diit r t re ev viie ew ws s. T. Th he e Committee scrutinised the judgements made C Ch ha aiir rm ma an o n of t f th he C e Co om mp pa an ny y, t, th he F e Fiin na an nc ce D e Diir re ec ct to or a r an nd o d ot th he er m r me em mb be er rs o s of s f se en niio or r in assessing whether any impairment was m ma an na ag ge em me en nt a t at tt te en nd m d me ee et tiin ng gs o s of t f th he C e Co omm mmiit tt te ee b e by i y in nv viit ta at tiio on n. T. Th he C e Co om mp pa an ny y s s necessary.
We concluded, after discussion e ex xt te er rn na al a l au ud diit to or rs s, D, fide ello oiit tt te L e LL LP P D fide ello oiit tt te e, a, alls so a o at tt te en nd m d me ee et tiin ng gs i s in p n pa ar rt t, a, as w s we ellll with the external auditors, that the balances a as m s me ee et tiin ng p g pr riiv va at te elly w y wiit th t h th he C e Co omm mmiit tt te ee a e at l t le ea as st o t on nc ce a y e a ye ea ar t r to d o diis sc cu us ss a s an ny y are appropriately stated in accordance with m ma at tt te er rs t s th he ey m y ma ay w y wiish t sh to r o ra aiis se w e wiit th ho ou ut E t Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five D e Diir re ec ct to or rs o s or m r me em mb be er rs o s of f the Groups accounting policy and, where fin fina an nc ce m e ma an na ag ge em me en nt b t be eiin ng p g pr re es se en nt.
t. required, impairments have been recorded appropriately in the year.
T Th he C e Co omm mmiit tt te ee m e me et t t th hr re ee t e tiim me es d s du ur riin ng 2 g 20 01 13 3.
It ts a s ac ct tiiv viit tiie es s, a, as w s we elll a l as s a ad dd diit tiio on na al a l at tt te en nd fide ee es s, a, ar re s e su umm mma ar riis se ed o d bn t eloh w e f. To hlle B owo in ag p rd ia s k ge esp.
T t u hp e B dao te ad rd Finally, I would like to record my appreciation ia s nk d i ep nt u for p m da et d o ed a f tn hd i e A nf u od rim t a en d o d R f t isk C he A ou mm dit a ittn ed R es a isk C ctivo itmm ies, a itn te d o es a f a cn tiy i vitsie su s, e s for all the support that I have received during a an risi d o ngf a, tn hy i rou ssg uh v es a errb isi an l r ge, t ph or ro ts g ugih v ven a erbt e al r five ep ry B orto s g arid m ven a eet e tinvg i ermm y Boe ad rd m iatele ye ting these exciting early years of Afrens existence.
ifmm ollow ed in ia g a C tely fo omm llowiitn te g a C e me oe mm tingit, a ten e m d te he ro tiu ng gh t, an hd t e ch irr co uu la gth t ion o he c f tir hce u lation o Cf ot m hm e C itte omm es m ittie ne ute s m s. inutes.
Peter Bingham Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 26 March 2014 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 Corporate governance C orporate governance statement continued The Committees activities during 2013 Date of meeting Other attendees Matters discussed 18 March 2013 Finance Director Report from Deloitte on audit and accounting judgements relating to the 2012 Annual Report.
Items of particular focus included: Senior finance management assumptions used in assessing the carrying values of intangible exploration Senior Internal Audit andevaluation assets and oil and gas production and development assets: Manager the accounting policy and underlying assumptions applied in calculating the Head of Risk Management charge fordepletion, depreciation and amortisation DD&A : andAssurance assumptions relating to future tax charges and related liabilities: Company Secretary valuation methods applied to options over an associate company and the related accounting impacts recorded in the year: Deloitte Lead Audit Partner assumptions made in providing for future decommissioning liabilities: andDirector the suitability of the going concern assumption used as a basis for preparing the accounts: and the application of hedge accounting for oil price hedges.
The level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the external auditor during 2012, and the outlook for2013.
Afrens risk management and risk assessment procedures, and how these mapped to the Groups internal procedures and mitigating action plans.
A review of the expected internal audit strategy by the newly appointed Senior Internal AuditManager.
A review of the Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC procedures.
No significant matters ofnon-compliance were reported via the Groups whistle-blowing process.
20 August 2013 Finance Director Report from Deloitte on audit and accounting judgements underlying the half-year results to June 2013.
These included: Senior finance management Deloittes approach in carrying out its review of the financial information, S enior Internal including materiality judgements: Audit Manager assumptions underlying the valuation of tangible oil and gas and intangible Deloitte Lead Audit exploration assets, liabilities for future taxand royalty payments, and for future Partner andDirector decommissioning liabilities: assumptions underlying the charge for DD&A in the half-year results : early adoption of IFRS 10 and the resulting consolidation of FHN: assumptions and judgements made relating to liquidity and going concern: and consistency of accounting policies and estimates between half-year financial statements andthe 2012 financial statements.
An update on the internal audit plan for 2013-14 and on the set-up of the internal auditfunction.
3 December 2013 Finance Director Report from Deloitte on its plan for the audit of the 2013 Annual Report, including: audit scope and materiality judgements: Senior finance management areas of judgement and risk requiring particular audit focus the key items are S enior Internal summarised in the following section on financial management and reporting : and Audit Manager fees for the year end audit for consideration.
Head of Risk Management Review of the internal audit plan for 2014 and approval of that plan, the internal andAssurance audit charter, andinternal audit strategy.
Deloitte Lead Audit Partner andDirector Feedback from the Senior Internal Audit Manager on internal audit activity and reports to date.
Company Secretary Update on risk management activities and the plan for 2014.
Changes to the UK corporate governance framework and reporting requirements, andasummary ofthe technical updates received by the members of the Committee throughouttheyear.
Afren plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Internal control and Internal audit procedures Financial management Throughout 2013, we have made significant risk management and reporting progress in developing a formal internal audit The Board has applied principle C. 2 During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee department for the Group.
A Senior Internal ofthe UKCorporate Governance Code reviewed, before publication, the half-year Audit Manager was appointed in February by establishing a continuous process for and annual financial statements, and other 2013 to oversee this function.
identifying, evaluating and managing the major statements affecting the Group that significant risks the Group faces.
The Audit concerned price-sensitive information.
The Senior Internal Audit Manager has and Risk Committee assists the Board directaccess and responsibility to the In monitoring the financial reporting practices, indischarging its review responsibilities.
Audit and Risk Committee, and his main the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the responsibilities include: The Directors conduct reviews of Afrens accounting policies, areas of judgement, overall system of risk management and going concern assumption, and compliance carrying out internal audit and internal control through reports from with accounting standards, the Disclosure compliance monitoring work, supported management and the external auditors, and andTransparency rules, and the by independent specialist consultants through the findings of internal audit reviews, UKCorporate Governance Code.
These as required, addressing financial and in accordance with the requirements of the matters were discussed with management operational risk management objectives revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, and reviewed alongside reports presented across the Group.
published by the FRC, and the Code.
These bythe Groups external auditors.
The key evaluating and developing the Groups systems have been operating throughout matters reviewed by the Committee through overall internal control environment and 2013 and to the date of thisreport.
the year and as part of the year-end itsprocesses for risk identification processwere: The Group also maintains a Risk Register, and management.
which contains the key risks the Group faces, Early adoption of IFRS 10 and the These responsibilities were presented including their likelihood and impact, as well resulting consolidation of FHN, and the to, and approved by, the Audit and Risk as the controls and procedures implemented acquisition of additional interests in FHN Committee at its meeting on 18 March 2013. to mitigate these risks.
Regular discussions During the year, the Audit and Risk At its meeting on 3 December 2013, the with senior management determine the Committee paid particular attention to the Committee approved the Groups internal content of the Register, which the Audit adoption of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial audit charter, internal audit strategy and and Risk Committee reviews.
These key risks Statements and the resulting consolidation internal audit plan for 2014. are summarised on pages 30 to 33 of the of FHN.
It reviewed a comprehensive paper Strategic report section of this AnnualReport.
Key areas of focus in 2013 were: prepared by management on the adoption implementing a formal risk-based internal The Board is responsible for the Groups of IFRS 10, which covered the matters audit programme, aligned to professional system of internal control, and for the considered in reaching the different control standards and guidelines.
ongoing review of its effectiveness.
Such conclusion under IFRS 10 compared to a system is designed to manage, rather IAS27, as well as other related effects of the developing the annual risk-based audit than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve change in accounting policy.
Further details plan to review and assess the effectiveness business objectives.
It can only provide are included in note 1.6 to the attached of business controls.
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance financial statements.
Management prepared reviewing a range of asset processes against material misstatement or loss.
thisin conjunction with advice provided by toassess the adequacy and effectiveness an independent accounting advisory firm, ofkey process controls.
KPMG, who were engaged on the matter.
supporting the development of the The Audit and Risk Committee discussed the Business Risk Management System.
adoption of IFRS 10 with the Group auditors, who were satisfied that the judgements made were appropriate, and that changes toaccounting were applied accurately.
Following a review of the papers presented, and discussion with management and the Group auditors, the Committee was satisfied that all relevant matters had been considered before the early adoption of IFRS 10, and that the judgements made in reaching the control conclusion for the consolidation of FHN were balanced and appropriate.
Further details of the impact of this change in accounting policy are included in notes 1.4, 1.6 and 5.15 of the financial statements.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 Corporate governance C orporate governance statement continued interpretations relating to tax and royalty Furthermore, the Committee considered the Review of oil and gas assets accounting and, inparticular, the accounting accounting for the acquisition of additional for impairment adjustments made to recognise the effect interests in FHN during the year, which, under The requirements to assess non-current assets ofqualifying for a five-year tax exemption IFRS 10, represented a transaction with nonfor indicators of impairment are described forthe Groups Ebok asset inNigeria.
Having considered in note 4.4 d of the attached financial and questioned explanations provided by statements.
At each reporting date, the In arriving at its conclusion that the management, the Committee concluded that Committee considers a report provided by judgements made are appropriate, the the approach adopted was in accordance management which explains the internal and Committee noted that managements with the relevant requirements.
Further external factors which could be indicative of judgements had been formed having details of the increase in Afrens shareholding impairment and their relevance to the Groups consulted internal and external tax in FHN are provided in note 5.10 of the assets in the period.
Factors considered advisors, and the Group auditors.
include changes in the oil price, increases in Interpretation of licence terms actual or expected operating costs or capital Valuation of intangible exploration The Groups licence terms are complex and costs required to access reserves, significant andevaluation assets are subject to interpretation and negotiation.
variations in the field performance compared During the year, the Group continued to The Committee has received accounting to expectations, and any adverse geopolitical conduct exploration and evaluation E&E papers prepared by management regarding events.
During the year, no indicators of work on its portfolio of exploration licences.
amendments which were made to the Ebok impairment were noted which would require We follow the successful efforts method of and Okoro licence terms during 2013.
Based a full impairment test to be undertaken.
accounting for E&E assets, which prescribes on these papers, as well as discussions by the capitalising costs incurred on E&E activities In respect of OML 26, where an impairment Board of Directors on the commercial rationale until commerciality is determined, or if test is required each year due to associated for the amendments, and discussions with our deemed unsuccessful, costs are expensed.
goodwill, we received a paper prepared external auditors, the Committee concluded by management summarising their that the accounting treatments adopted by The Committee examined the judgements impairment review and associated inputs the Group were appropriate.
management made in assessing whether and assumptions, and the conclusion that there were any indicators of impairment Where licences include residual profit interest noimpairment was required.
Where such indicators existed, in fields, we discussed the calculation of these it considered the evidence to support Taxation and royalty liabilities with management and with the Groups whether or not an impairment existed.
The application of tax legislation in jurisdictions external auditors.
The Committee is satisfied TheCommittee challenged management in which the Group operates canbe uncertain that the amounts accrued in relation to these on the application of the Group accounting and subject tointerpretation.
The Committee liabilities reflect a balanced assessment of the policy in respect of individual assets, and, reviews managements judgements at least Groups potential exposure, and notes the after due consideration, concluded that E&E twice ayear.
estimate uncertainty as described in note 1.6 balances and impairment charges recorded of the Groups financial statements.
As part of the review of the financial in the year were appropriately stated in statements for the year ended 31 December accordance with the Group accounting policy.
2013, the Committee considered a paper prepared by management, which documented all significant judgements and Afren plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance The external auditors are specifically excluded External audit Control framework from providing internal audit services, The Audit and Risk Committee has and activities litigation support, remuneration advice recommended to the Board that and legal advice services.
The Committee The Board has established a management the current auditors, Deloitte LLP, be assesses every other piece of non-audit work structure with defined lines of responsibility reappointed as external auditors.
In making separately, and awards it depending on and clear delegation of authority.
The various the recommendation, it has taken into which professional services firm it considers committees are key elements of the overall consideration the independence matters best suited.
In addition, the Chairman of the control structure.
These include the Executive noted below and the past service of Audit and Risk Committee must approve Committee, which is responsible for all the auditors, who were first appointed any non-audit work with a total fee greater strategic and operational activities day-to-day.
in 2005 following a full tender process.
than 25% of the annual audit fee before the The Group has developed a formal structured TheCommittee has also noted the revisions appointment is made.
business planning process, which operates to the UK Corporate Governance Code on an annual cycle.
The Board approves the The Board is satisfied that this policy introduced by the Financial Reporting Council consolidated annual budget, and performance is conducive to maintaining auditor FRC in September 2012 and, in particular, against budget is monitored and reported to independence and objectivity.
During the the recommendation to put the external audit the Board.
year, external auditors performed a significant out to tender at least every ten years.
The amount of non-audit work in relation to the FRC has proposed non-binding transitional The Groups risk management process is Circular to Shareholders dealing with the arrangements with respect to tendering, described on pages 28 to 29.
The Audit and acquisition of a beneficial interest of 10.4% including a recommendation that tendering Risk Committee and senior executives of the in FHN and the issuing of Senior Secured should ordinarily fit the five-yearly cycle of Company regularly review significant risks, Notes in December 2013.
This is work audit partner rotation.
Under the proposed their potential impact on the Groups financial external auditors would ordinarily perform guidelines, the Committee would recommend position, and actions taken to manage those for companies involved in such projects.
an external audit tender by 2019 orearlier risks during the year.
TheCommittee is satisfied that carrying out ifithas cause to do so.
this work has not impaired the independence The Committee has also concluded that there of the external auditors.
are no contractual obligations to restrict the A breakdown of the fees paid to the external choice of external auditors.
It has a policy auditors in respect of audit and non-audit forassessing whether to employ the external work is included in note 5.2 to the auditors to supply services other than audit financial statements.
services, and closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit services the external auditors provide to the Group.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments closely related to the annual audit, or where the work requires a detailed understanding ofthe Group.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93
