Corporate governance Afrens Board of Directors Board of Directors Associate Directors Name and Title Mr Egbert Imomoh Dr Osman Shahenshah Mr Shahid Ullah Mr Darra Comyn Mr Peter Bingham Mr John St. John Mr Ennio Sganzerla Mr Toby Hayward Mr Patrick Obath Ms Sheree Bryant Iain Wright Galib Virani Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Associate Director Associate Director Biography Mr Imomoh, a founder Dr Shahenshah is a Mr Ullah brings Mr Comyn was Mr Bingham is a Mr St. John was Mr Sganzerla is a senior A qualified chartered Mr Obath, an East Ms Bryant is a social Mr Wright has over Mr Virani joined Afren of Afren, was previously founder of Afren.
His extensive technical and previously the Group Non-Executive Director appointed to the Board oil industry practitioner accountant, African national, was entrepreneur with 25years of industry in 2006 following a Managing Director and international career began commercial knowledge Finance Director for of Afren appointed of Afren in November with a wealth of Mr Hayward has held appointed to the Board extensive experience in experience, having career in the City of Executive Chairman of with Credit Suisse First of the African ITE Group plc and in 2005.
He has acted African upstream a number of senior in 2012.
Mr Obath government and the held senior positions London in corporate Afren Energy Resources Boston and has included petroleum industry to Expomedia Group plc began his career at as an adviser on over experience.
He was equity capital market currently also serves NGO sectors in the US at Randall & Dewey, finance and mergers Limited.
He successfully senior positions in the oil Afren.
Mr Ullah holds both international Barclays Bank group.
US$100 billion of equity previously Senior positions in London.
as Chairman of PZ and the UK.
In addition Baker Hughes, Qatar and acquisitions led the growth of and gas finance groups a degree in Petroleum groups focused on He subsequently and equity-linked Vice President E&P He was Head of Cussons EA Limited to consulting and pro Petroleum, Conoco predominantly covering Afrens Nigerian asset of the International Engineering from the emerging markets : held a succession issuance in all major at Eni, having joined Oil and Gas Equity and is a Non-Executive bono work for several UK and Anadrill the energy sector.
base, established a Finance Corporation the University of Texas and in the oil industry ofDirectorships, markets worldwide.
Capital Markets at Director at Standard US and UK charities, Schlumberger prior to He is a Fellow of the number of successful private sector arm of the and received executive with Chevron Oil first in London at Hewas formerly From 1997, hewas Canaccord Adams, Chartered Bank Kenya Ms Bryant is a Trustee joining Afren in 2008.
Securities Institute, indigenous partnerships World Bank, and various development training at UK and Dragon Oil branch level, then in Global Head of Equity responsible forEnis before joining Jefferies Limited and Kenya of award winning Mr Wright is a Certified and has a Master of and achieved the First investment banks in Oxford University and where he was Group Barclays merchant Capital Markets at largest business International Limited Power and Lighting Impetus Private Equity Petroleum Geologist Finance & Investment Oil milestone at the New York, London and the London Business Financial Controller and banking division and Dresdner Kleinwort, unit encompassing as Managing Director Company Limited.
Foundation portfolio with the AAPG, with Distinction Okoro project.
He is a member Company Secretary.
BZW nowknown Commerzbank and the North Sea, and Head of Corporate Heis Chairman of the partner COUI Teens and a fellow of the and a Master of Society of Petroleum has worked on oil and of the Engineering Mr Comyn is a as Barclays Capital.
Lehman Brothers and America, Australasia Broking, where he Kenya Private Sector and Toddlers.
Geological Society, Philosophy in Emerging Engineers has named gas opportunities in more Advisory Board at the Chartered Accountant There he set up the European Head of and Russia, with was responsible Alliance and has SPE, and PESGB.
Mr Imomoh as its 2013 than 15 African countries.
with a degree in credit risk management Equity Capital Markets production in excess for all international received a number of Ms Bryant was President, and he has He holds a PhD from the Economics from Trinity team, before becoming at Citigroup, formerly of500,000boepd.
equity and equity East African Honorary educated at the served on its board University of Pennsylvania, College, University Head of Banking at Salomon Brothers.
linked transactions recognitions, including Universities of Texas, as Regional Director a Masters Degree from ofDublin.
BZW and serving He was previously the together with the Order of the Grand Harvard Graduate forAfrica.
Columbia University and as a member of the Chairman of Equity corporate broking and Warrior OGW by H. E. School of Arts and a Bachelors Degree from central Barclays Group Capital Markets at .
the President of the Sciences, and Kings Brown University.
Nomura International Republic of Kenya, the College, London.
Mr St. John is National Peace Award, a founding Partner Kenya, and the Order ofSTJAdvisers.
of the Moran of the Burning Spear MBS by H. E. the President of the Republic of Kenya.
Year Appointed 2005 2004 2008 2010 2005 2007 2009 2009 2012 2013 2010 2010 Meetings Attended 8 10 10 10 3 10 10 10 8 10 7 10 9 10 9 10 9 10 2 2 Experience Mr Imomoh brings a Dr Shahenshah has Through the senior Mr Comyn has With over 40years Mr St. Johns significant Over the course of his Mr Hayward has With nearly 40 years Ms Bryant brings Mr Wright brings Mr Virani contributes wealth of knowledge been actively involved in management positions extensive financial, experience, experience provides wide-ranging career extensive expertise of industry experience, extensive experience extensive geosciences a wealth of corporate of the oil and gas the African oil and gas held by Mr Ullah accounting and capital Mr Bingham considerable insight at Eni, Mr Sganzerla in the equity capital including 20 years in in strategy, corporate experience to Afren, finance experience industry in Nigeria industry for more than prior to joining Afren, markets experience brings considerable into the international has acquired markets, as well as various positions at responsibility having served in to Afren, and has and Africa, acquired 15 years, working with atWestern Atlas and in both the emerging knowledge in capital and significant experience bringing financial Shell, Mr Obath has a and community bothdevelopment played a key role in the through many years companies including Baker Hughes where markets and the oil international financialmarkets.
in establishing and andaccountancy wealth of experience development andexploration inorganic growth of the of industry experience Shell, Chevron, Total, Eni, he was responsible for andgas industry.
developing oil and gas experience to as a senior oil and gas totheBoard.
including serving as and the Nigerian National managing significant assets in West Africa theBoard.
Mr Virani is an East Deputy Managing Petroleum Corporation.
petroleum interests including Nigeria, African national and Director of Shell and assets, he has Gabon and Congo and oversees the regional Dr Shahenshah also Petroleum Development considerable experience in leading merger and aspects of Afrens brings to Afren his Company Nigeria prior in the oil and acquisitions activities activities in EastAfrica.
extensive experience of to establishing Afrens gasindustry.
in the oil and gas the international capital Nigerian subsidiary.
industry, including the markets and of oil and acquisition of Lasmo gas finance.
Committee Membership Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Remuneration Remuneration Committee Committee Independent Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Will step down in Joined 31 October 2014 as Audit and Risk 2013 Committee Chairman Afren plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Board of Directors Associate Directors Name and Title Mr Egbert Imomoh Dr Osman Shahenshah Mr Shahid Ullah Mr Darra Comyn Mr Peter Bingham Mr John St. John Mr Ennio Sganzerla Mr Toby Hayward Mr Patrick Obath Ms Sheree Bryant Iain Wright Galib Virani Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Associate Director Associate Director Biography Mr Imomoh, a founder Dr Shahenshah is a Mr Ullah brings Mr Comyn was Mr Bingham is a Mr St. John was Mr Sganzerla is a senior A qualified chartered Mr Obath, an East Ms Bryant is a social Mr Wright has over Mr Virani joined Afren of Afren, was previously founder of Afren.
Committee Membership Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Remuneration Remuneration Committee Committee Independent Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Will step down in Joined 31 October 2014 as Audit and Risk 2013 Committee Chairman Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79
