Corporate governance Directors report includes the Groups objectives, policies and The Directors submit their Annual Report on processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives and details of its the affairs of the Group together with the financial instruments and hedging activities.
Note 5.3 describes its exposures to credit risk financial statements and audit report of Afren and liquidity risk.
plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Afrens production outlook for 2014 and beyond, together with its existing funding The Corporate governance statement on pages facilities, provide confidence that the Group will continue to generate sufficient working 74 to 104 forms part of this Directors report.
capital for the foreseeable future to enable it to fund its ongoing exploration and development activities.
On the basis of the above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources Having taken all the matters considered by also include details of expected future tocontinue in operational existence for the the Board and brought to the attention of the developments in the Groups business and foreseeable future.
They therefore continue to Board during the year into account, we are details of the Key Performance Indicators adopt the going concern basis of accounting satisfied that the Annual Report, taken as a used by management.
in preparing the annual financial statements.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
Information about the use of financial Principal activities instruments by the Company and its Results and dividends The Groups principal activities are oil and gas subsidiaries, including details on the risk The Groups profit attributable to exploration, development and production management objectives, is given in note 3.3 shareholders for the year was US$516 million inAfrica and the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
The Directors Thesubsidiary undertakings principally have not recommended the payment Details of significant events affecting the affecting the profits or net assets of the ofadividend 2012: US$nil.
Company and the Group since the balance Group in the year are listed in notes 4.7 and The Directors and their interests sheet date are contained in note 6.16 to the 6.2 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Directors who served during the year, financial statements.
and subsequently, together with their and Strategic review Going concern their families beneficial interests in shares The Company is required by the Companies The Groups business activities, together inthe Company, were as shown below.
Act to include in this Annual Report a with the factors likely to affect its future Details of Directors share options are summary of its principal strategic objectives development, performance and position are provided in the Directors remuneration and principal risks and uncertainties faced in set out in the Operations review.
The financial report on pages 99 to 100. achieving its objectives.
The information that position of the Group at the year end, its fulfils the reviews requirements is set out cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing Political donations within the Chairmans statement and Chief facilities are described in the Financial review No political donations were made in either Executives review, Operations review and on pages 34 to 39.
In addition, section3 of 2013 or 2012. the Financial review, which are incorporated the Notes to the Group financial statements into this report by reference.
Or on appointment, if later.
Chairman of Committee Afren plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Greenhouse gas emissions There are a number of agreements that take the Director has taken all the steps that Details of the Groups emissions of carbon effect, alter or terminate upon a change of he ought to have taken as a Director dioxide equivalent from the activities which control of the Company such as commercial in order to make himself aware of any the Group is responsible are provided on contracts, bank loan agreements, property relevant audit information and to establish pages 68 and 69. lease arrangements and employee share that the Companys auditors are aware plans.
None of these is considered to be ofthat information.
Capital structure significant in terms of their likely impact Details of the authorised and issued This confirmation is given and should be on the business of the Group as a whole.
share capital, together with details of the interpreted in accordance with the provisions Furthermore, there are no agreements movements in the Companys issued share of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. between the Company and its Directors or capital during the year, are shown in note 3.5 employees that provide for compensation Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness of the financial statements.
The Company for loss of office or employment that occurs to continue in office as auditors and a has one class of ordinary shares, which carries because of a takeover bid.
resolution to reappoint them will be proposed no right to fixed income.
Each share carries at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the right to one vote at general meetings Substantial shareholdings ofthe Company.
The ordinary shares reflect As of 25 March 2014 being the latest The Directors note the revisions to the 2012 100% of the total issued nominal value of practicable date prior to publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced allsharecapital.
Annual Report, interests notified to the by the Financial Reporting Council FRC Company in accordance with Chapter 5 in September 2012 and intend to put the There are no specific restrictions on the size of the Disclosure and Transparency external audit contract out to tender at least of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, Rules comprised: every ten years.
The timing of the next tender which are both governed by the general will be aligned with the cycle for rotating the provisions of the Articles of Association and V Viid da ac co os N s No om miin ne ee es s S St ta an nd da ar rd L d Liif fe e 8 8.. 0 00% 0% audit engagement partner.
Further details are prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not B Blla ack ckR Ro ock ck, I In nc c.. 5 5.. 0 01% 1% provided in the report of the Audit and Risk aware of any agreements between holders SK SKA AG GEN EN G Gllo ob ba all 5 5.. 0 01% 1% Committee on page 89. of the Companys shares that may result V Va an n E Eck ck A As ss so oci ciat ate es s C Co or rp po or rat atiio on n 4 4.. 9 97% 7% inrestrictions on the transfer of securities Annual General Meeting A Alli llia an nc ce eB Be er rs st te ein in L LP P 4 4.. 9 94% 4% oronvoting rights.
At the Annual General Meeting of the H HS SB BC C C Clliie en nt H t Ho olld diin ng gs U s UK L K Liim miit te ed d 4 4.. 9 93 3% % Company, resolutions will be proposed to Details of employee share schemes are set IIn nv five es st te ec A c As ss se et M t Ma an na ag ge em me en nt L t Lt td d 4 4.. 4 49% 9% receive these accounts and the Directors out in note 5.8.
G GL LG P G Pa ar rt tn ne er rs L s LP P 3 3.. 6 60% 0% and auditors reports.
Resolutions will be N No or rg ge es B s Ba an nk k 3 3.. 0 05% 5% No person has any special rights of control proposed to re-elect all Directors at the over the Companys share capital, and D fide eu ut ts sc ch he B e Ba an nk A k AG G 3 3.. 0 01% 1% Annual General Meeting, in accordance with all issued shares are fully paid.
Details of the Companys Articles of Association and L Le eg ga al & G l & Ge en ne er ra al G l Gr ro ou up P p Pllc c 3 3.. 0 01% 1% significant shareholdings are set out below.
the UK Corporate Governance Code.
P Pe er rc ce en nt ta ag ge es a s ar re b e ba as se ed o d on t n th he i e is ss su ue ed s d sh ha ar re e c ca ap piit ta al a l at t t th he d e da at te o e of n f no ot tiifi fic ca at tiio on n.. With regard to the appointment and Resolutions will also be proposed to: replacement of Directors, the Company Acquisition of the Companys reappoint Deloitte LLP as the is governed by its Articles of Association, own shares Companys auditors the UK Corporate Governance Code, the At the end of the year the Directors had Companies Act and related legislation.
The authorise the Directors to fix Deloitte LLPs authority, under the shareholders resolutions Articles themselves may be amended by remuneration as auditors of 11 June 2013, to purchase through the special resolution of the shareholders.
The market 108,906,569 of the Companys grant the Directors authority to allot powers of Directors are described in the Main ordinary shares at prices, per share, ranging ordinary shares Board Terms of Reference, copies of which between one penny and the higher of i the are available on request, and the Corporate buy back the Companys ordinary shares amount equal to 105% of the average of Governance Statement on pages 82 to 87. the closing middle market quotations for an allow a general meeting to be held at not ordinary share as derived from the London In respect of the Groups assets in Ghana, less than 14 days notice.
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five Block 10A in Kenya, the Seychelles and For a more detailed explanation of these and business days immediately preceding the day Ethiopia, our Partners may have a right of other amendments, please refer to the Notes on which the ordinary share is purchased and first refusal to acquire the Companys interest on Resolutions set out in the Notice of Annual ii the amount stipulated by article 5 1 of the should a competitor directly or indirectly take General Meeting.
Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulations 2003 control of the Company.
In relation to the in each case exclusive of expenses.
This Ebok asset, our Partner Oriental would have authority expires on 30 June 2014. a right to take the role of technical adviser on On behalf of the Board a change of control.
In addition, under the Auditors terms on which the 2016, 2019, and 2020 Each of the persons who is a Director at Senior Secured Notes were issued, upon a the date of approval of this Annual Report Osman Shahenshah change of control, each holder of the notes confirms that: Chief Executive has the right to require Afren to repurchase 26 March 2014 so far as the Director is aware, there is no all or any part of its holding.
relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81
