Report of the Directors Corporate governance Governance framework Chairmans Introduction Remuneration Nomination A great deal of change has occurred at Dairy Crest and in the Committee Committee Group wider corporate world since January 2010 when I was Board appointed Chairman.
Corporate governance is continually Audit CR Committee Committee evolving and the pace of that evolution has increased since my appointment.
It is right that boards give appropriate consideration to the broad range of issues affecting the Management businesses they lead.
Focusing on just delivering good Board financial results is not enough: diversity, social and environmental impact, long-term legacy and sustainability, to name but a few, are all matters which boards must consider.
Demand HR Finance Legal Procurement Supply The right approach to corporate governance helps to ensure that businesses are able to deliver long-term value for all of their stakeholders in the right way and an appropriate Cheese Spreads Dairies governance framework fulfils an essential role, providing a system for the direction and control of businesses.
The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the governance The Groups business has become more focused and less complex of the Company and the Companys strong governance framework over recent years with the sale of its stake in Yoplait Dairy Crest in is supported by a combination of clear values, appropriate policy 2009, the creation of a unified Dairies business and the subsequent and an environment of transparency and accountability.
sale of its French subsidiary St Hubert in August 2012.
Moreover, since its last Report, the Company has undertaken a significant Ensuring the effective performance of the Board is one of my main reorganisation.
As a result, from the start of the current financial year, responsibilities as Chairman and my aim is to ensure that it the Company consolidated its organisation into a single structure comprises individuals with a varied mix of backgrounds, skills and focused on customer driven growth with an integrated supply chain.
experience who are able to challenge each other appropriately, work The simplified structure in place as at the date of this Report see in a collegiate manner and do the right thing for Dairy Crest.
In diagram above also enables simplified governance.
managing the changes to the Board since 2010 I have sought to ensure that we have in place a strong Board with not only the The Board appropriate technical, financial and other business skills required to The Board leads and controls the Company in the delivery of provide the best leadership for the Company, but also that we have long-term success and the discharge of the Companys obligations a group of people who demonstrate the values necessary to be to its shareholders and other stakeholders.
It is collectively effective stewards of the Company.
My focus will remain on ensuring responsible for the Groups strategy, values and governance and that the composition of the Board continues to evolve and that we ensuring that the resources required to meet the Groups objectives maintain an appropriate mix of experience and skills through careful are available within a framework of prudent controls.
have been reserved to the Board.
The Boards principal responsibilities include: Dairy Crest has a clearly defined set of values which are Approval of the Groups long-term objectives and business communicated throughout the Group.
Those values are supported strategy.
by a range of procedures and guidelines which help to give Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
employees an appropriate roadmap for behaviours.
Together with Approval of the Companys Interim and Preliminary Results external governance codes, they set the framework for the Announcements and Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company strives to Declaration of interim dividends and the recommendation of a final ensure the highest standards of corporate governance in all areas of dividend.
Throughout the 2012 13 financial year, the Company Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control was in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and risk management.
2010 2010 Code against which this Report is prepared, apart from Approval of the Companys governance framework, including key in relation to Board evaluation, details of which are set out at page Group policies, for example Health and Safety and Business 36.
Although the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Conduct.
Code 2012 Code does not apply to the Companys 2012 13 Approval of resolutions to be put to shareholders at the Annual financial year, where appropriate, and as encouraged in the 2012 General Meeting AGM.
Code, this Report complies with it.
We aim to achieve full compliance with the 2012 Code when we report our 2013 14 Each Director is aware of his her responsibilities, individually and financial year and will continue closely to monitor developments in collectively, to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The 2010 Code is publicly available Details of the frequency of Board meetings during the year together from the website of the Financial Reporting Council FRC at with Directors attendance are set out in the table at page 11. www.
Changes to the membership of the Board and its Committees during 2012 13 are set out in the notes to the table on page 11.
Anthony Fry Chairman 22 May 2013 Committees There are five Committees of the Board: Audit: Remuneration: Nomination: Corporate Responsibility and the Management Board, to which the Board has delegated specific responsibilities.
Each of the Boards Committees terms of reference are published on the 34 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 72236 Glasshouse p34-p40.
indd 34 04 06 2013 18:52 Report of the Directors Groups website and to the extent required, they comply with the Non-executive Directors 2010 Code.
Separate reports from each of the chairmen of the Audit All Non-executive Directors including the Chairman confirmed on pages 37 to 38, Nomination pages 38 to 39, Corporate appointment that they had sufficient time available to fulfil their Responsibility pages 26 to 29 and 39 and Remuneration pages 41 obligations as Directors and that they would inform the Board should to 52 Committees are included in this Report.
Details of the Chairmans other significant professional commitments are included in his biography page 11.
Board balance and independence The Chairman will take up his appointment as chairman of the At the date of this Report, the Board has eight Directors three Premier League on 1 June 2013.
He will shortly step down from his Executive, a Non-executive Chairman who was independent on role as a member of the BBC Trust and has altered a number of his appointment and four independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that he continues to have biographies, responsibilities and Committee memberships are set sufficient time available to fulfil his obligations as a Director and out on pages 10 to 11.
No Non-executive Director or the Chairman Chairman.
All significant commitments of Non-executive Directors has any business or other relationship with the Group which may were disclosed to the Board prior to their appointment and the influence their independence or judgement and the Board believes Board was informed of subsequent changes.
them to be independent of management.
As members of a unitary board, the Non-executive Directors The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of Executive scrutinise managements performance in meeting agreed goals and and Non-executive Directors with a suitable breadth of experience objectives.
The Board as a whole monitors the reporting of and backgrounds to provide effective leadership for the Group.
The Chief Executives objectives, achievement of A highly proactive approach to the management of the Board is which influences his remuneration, are agreed with the maintained to ensure that all Board appointments continue to Remuneration Committee following initial discussion with the reflect diversity.
Further detail on the Boards approach to diversity Chairman.
Performance against those objectives is scrutinised by and the work undertaken to ensure balance and appropriate the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee monitors and refreshment of the Board is given in the Nomination Committees scrutinises the integrity of financial information as well as the report at pages 38 to 39. robustness and defensibility of financial controls and systems of risk management.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for Chairman and Chief Executive determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive The division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Directors.
The Nomination Committee has a prime role in selecting Executive is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
and appointing Directors and in succession planning.
The Anthony Fry leads the Board and is accountable for ensuring the appointment of Directors to or the removal of Directors from the Boards effectiveness in discharging its responsibilities, including Board is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
safeguarding shareholder and other stakeholder interests and ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
In conjunction The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the with the Chief Executive he sets the agenda for Board meetings Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors.
ensuring that adequate time is available for all agenda items, in The process for appraising the Chairmans performance is set out particular, strategic issues, and facilitates the effective contribution of on page 36.
Were Directors to have unresolved concerns about the all Directors.
He promotes a culture of openness among the Board running of the Company or a proposed action, they would be and ensures constructive relations between Executive and Nonrecorded in the Board minutes.
The Non-executive Directors executive Directors.
He is supported by the Company Secretary in recognise the principle that if on resignation from the Board a the discharge of his duties.
Mark Allen has overall responsibility for Director has unresolved concerns, that Director should provide a the effective implementation of the strategy approved by the Board, written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
for the Groups business performance and day-to-day management The concept that Non-executive Directors are free to question any of the Groups operations, and for the effective management of the executive decision of the Company is enshrined in the engagement Groups people and assets.
letter of each Non-executive Director.
Appointment and re-election Induction and development The articles of association of the Company 'Articles' provide that The Company Secretary ensures that Directors undergo a the Directors or the members, by ordinary resolution, may appoint a comprehensive induction programme on appointment.
Directors Director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director.
A Director variously receive independent training on technical accounting and appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next AGM following other governance related matters from professional service appointment and shall be eligible for election by the members.
The providers and institutions and bulletins from the Group on Articles require all Directors to be elected annually.
All Directors will developments in the dairy sector generally.
The Directors keep stand for re-election at the Companys 2013 AGM, except for Tom abreast with the Groups business through meetings and Atherton, who consistent with the Articles, will stand for election presentations by management below Board level and visits to having been appointed since the last AGM.
Having regard to the operational sites.
roles performed by each of the Directors, the individual input and contribution they make and their individual expertise and experience, Information and support the Board is satisfied that each candidates performance justifies Under the Chairmans stewardship, the Company Secretary advises nomination for election or re-election by shareholders.
The contracts the Board on all governance matters and ensures Board procedures of employment of Executive Directors and the letters of appointment are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.
of Non-executive Directors are available for inspection by any person He ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with at the Companys registered office during normal office hours and information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable the will also be available at the 2013 AGM for 15 minutes before and Board to discharge its duties.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 35 72236 Glasshouse p34-p40.
indd 35 04 06 2013 16:01 Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued All Directors individually, the Board and each of the Board Risk management and internal control Committees, have access to the advice and services of the The Board confirms that in accordance with principle C. 2 of the Company Secretary.
He provides the Board with regular reports on 2010 Code, it has established and has maintained sound systems of corporate governance issues.
Procedures exist enabling Directors to risk management and internal control throughout the year and up to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense to the date of this Report.
It has periodically reviewed those systems assist them in the discharge of their duties.
during the year and has satisfied itself that they accord with the FRCs Guidance on Internal Control revised October 2005.
It is not Evaluation possible entirely to eliminate risk, accordingly, although the systems An external evaluation of the Board and its effectiveness was are designed to manage risks they cannot provide absolute conducted in the prior financial year.
As Anthony Fry had been assurance against material misstatement or loss.
They provide Chairman for only a year at the time, his performance was a key part reasonable assurance that potential issues can be identified of the evaluation, the aim being to identify from the outset of his promptly and remedied appropriately.
Chairmanship areas of focus which the Board felt would add most value to its own performance.
Whilst the Chairman and the Board The key components of the risk management and internal control received a very favourable evaluation, nonetheless the Directors systems include: have been striving individually and collectively to enhance their The reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, overall contribution to the Group.
This years evaluation has all significant strategic, financial and organisational risks.
commenced initially using questionnaires which have been followed A management structure which includes clear lines of up with individual interviews of all members of the Board by an responsibility and documented delegations of authority with external facilitator.
The evaluation exercise has not yet been appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, concluded: in due course a report on it will be published in the incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Groups assets.
Corporate Governance section of the Companys website.
In The operation of comprehensive financial and strategic planning, recognition of the need identified in the previous years evaluation for forecasting and review processes.
the Board to be more visible within the wider business, Board Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the meetings have been held at the Groups Kirkby and Severnside sites Groups Head of Internal Audit, over the Groups control processes and a far wider range of the Groups management has been invited designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial to attend and present at relevant parts of Board meetings.
The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the The performance of the Executive Directors in the context of their business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of management and operational responsibilities was appraised in the the Groups business, trading results, balance sheet and cash flow normal way, in accordance with the Groups performance and information with comparison against prior year and budget, all of development review process which applies to all management grade which are reviewed by the Management Board and the Board.
employees in the Group, irrespective of seniority.
Under that Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget including process, the Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for Executive and the Chief Executive appraises the performance of the mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks other Executive Directors.
The outcome of the reviews of in meetings known internally as Accounts Reviews where each performance of all of the Executive Directors was scrutinised by the key constituent part of the Group and key departments report Remuneration Committee.
performance year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel comprising the Management Board and other senior executives.
The Boards Committees have considered their performance and Formal documented financial controls and procedures including such actions as are considered appropriate for further enhancement specific procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of of their effective operation.
Quarterly completion by each key constituent part of the Group of a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business unit management.
Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed by senior management, the Management Board and the Board with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership and mitigation of significant risks to members of the Management Board and independent assurance over the appropriate implementation and operation of mitigating activities provided by the Groups Internal Audit function.
Review by the Audit Committee of the Groups risk register processes.
Review and approval of the audit plan for the Groups Internal Audit function together with progress against and revision of the plan as appropriate, throughout the year.
Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Management Board of all Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, corrective action plans and progress against those plans.
36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 72236 Glasshouse p34-p40.
indd 36 04 06 2013 18:50 Report of the Directors Satisfied itself as to the effectiveness of the audit, reviewed the Audit Committee Report findings of the audit, evaluated the performance, independence and objectivity of the External Auditor and the quantum and ratio I am pleased to present to you my report on the work of the of audit and non-audit fees.
Audit Committee during the 2012 13 financial year.
The Approved the annual internal audit plan and progress against it Committee plays an important part in the governance of the throughout the year.
It reviewed all reports on the Group from Company.
Its principal objectives are to provide effective Internal Audit and review the interaction between the Internal Audit oversight and review of the Groups financial reporting function and the External Auditor to ensure that the two worked processes, the system of internal control and management of well together and their activities complemented each other.
Where risk, the internal and external audit processes and their the Internal Audit function identified action is required by effectiveness and the Groups processes for monitoring management, the Committee reviewed and monitored compliance with laws and external regulations.
managements responsiveness and progress in implementing appropriate recommendations from the Internal Audit function.
It The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial reviewed Group Internal Audits charter.
The Committee was experience for the purposes of the 2010 Code.
The other members satisfied as to the quality of the work of the Internal Audit function of the Committee are Stephen Alexander and Richard Macdonald and that it was appropriately assisted in its work by management.
both of whom are independent Non-executive Directors.
A standing invitation has been made by the Committee to all Non-executive In addition to the Committees primary accountabilities related to the Directors to attend the Committees meetings.
The number of Groups annual financial reporting cycle and associated audit, the Committee meetings and attendance at them is shown in the table Committee has other responsibilities including overseeing and on page 11.
The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, Group reviewing the Companys process for monitoring compliance with Finance Director, Director of Financial Control, Head of Internal Audit laws and regulations.
During the year it reviewed the effectiveness of and representatives of the External Auditor attend meetings at the the Groups compliance and whistleblowing procedures and was invitation of the Committee.
During 2012 13 the External and Internal satisfied that they allow for appropriate investigation and suitable Auditors attended all meetings and met privately with the follow-up actions.
The Committee undertakes an annual Committee.
I provide the Board with a report on the work of the effectiveness review.
Committee after each of its meetings.
All outstanding matters related to the Committees 2012 13 work Andrew Carr-Locke Chairman of the Audit Committee plan were completed at the Committees meeting on 13 May 2013.
22 May 2013 External Auditor objectivity and independence The objectivity and independence of the External Auditor is critical to Terms of reference the integrity of the audit.
During the year the Committee reviewed the The Committee reviews its terms of reference at least annually, External Auditors own policies and procedures for safeguarding its having regard, amongst other matters, to their continued compliance objectivity and independence.
The audit engagement partner gave with the requirements of the Code, the FRCs Guidance on Internal representations as to the External Auditors independence and Control revised October 2005 and the Guidance on Audit confirmed that the External Auditors reward and remuneration Committees December 2010.
Under its terms of reference, the structure includes no incentives for audit engagement partners to Committee is responsible for providing advice to the Board on the cross sell non-audit services to audit clients.
Groups Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and Annual Report and Accounts: on accounting policies and on the control of The Committees assessment is underpinned by the Groups policy its financial and business risks as well as reviewing the work of the on the engagement of the External Auditor for the provision of Internal and External Auditors.
non-audit services, which was revised and significantly strengthened in the prior year.
The Committee conducted a review of the policy Audit Committee activity during the 2012 13 year and was satisfied that it continued to be In carrying out its work, the Committee embraced the requirements of appropriate.
The policy contains a presumption against the use of provision C. 3.2 of the 2010 Code and followed an annual work plan the External Auditor for non-audit services.
The External Auditor may covering its principal responsibilities under its terms of reference.
only be engaged for the provision of non-audit services in During 2012 13 and up to the date of this Report, amongst other contravention of that presumption where those services are matters, the Committee undertook the following work: expressly permitted under the policy: and where there is a Monitored the integrity of the Groups financial statements which it demonstrable efficiency, audit enhancement or cost benefit resulting reviewed prior to their submission to the Board.
from the engagement of the External Auditor.
Furthermore, before it Monitored the Groups financial management and reporting may be engaged for the provision of such non-audit services, systems together with the Groups risk management processes alternative providers must have been considered and discounted.
and controls: and satisfied itself of the integrity and their Services which the External Auditor is prohibited from providing to effectiveness.
It reviewed any areas of control weakness identified the Group include, amongst others: by the Internal or External Auditors and monitored their mitigation Bookkeeping services and preparation of financial information.
The design, supply or implementation of financial information Reviewed significant accounting policies and tested the systems.
appropriateness of any proposed changes to those policies.
Approved the external audit plan including, scope, level of Internal audit services.
materiality, resources dedicated to the audit and the seniority, Actuarial services.
expertise and experience of the engagement team, the fee for Executive management services including the secondment of staff delivering the audit and satisfied itself that the External Auditor to perform management functions, recruitment services or other would be able to conduct an effective audit for such fee which it human resources functions, legal, broker, investment or banking recommended to the Board for approval.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 37 72236 Glasshouse p34-p40.
indd 37 04 06 2013 04:13 Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued External Auditors fees Nomination Committee report Details of fees paid to the External Auditor for audit services, audit related services and other non-audit services may be found at Note I am pleased to present to shareholders my report on the work 2 to the Accounts on page 74. of the Nomination Committee during the 2012 13 financial year.
Details of the membership of the Committee and the Re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young attendance of members at Committee meetings during the Ernst & Young was first appointed as External Auditor to the year are set out on page 11.
My role as Chairman of the Company in 1996.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Nomination Committee complements one of my key Company with regard to its appointment.
The Audit Committee has responsibilities as Chairman of the Board to ensure the not considered it necessary since its initial appointment to require effective performance of the Board by ensuring it comprises the firm to tender competitively for the audit work.
In the light of the individuals with a varied mix of backgrounds, skills and assessments and review undertaken and having considered a experience.
Succession for the Board is a key focus for the recommendation of the Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young as Committee which also pays close attention to succession the Companys and Groups External Auditor, the Board endorsed planning at senior executive level and more widely within the the Committees recommendation which was approved by Group.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the shareholders in July 2012. selection and appointment of Directors and making its recommendations to the Board.
In conjunction with the At its meeting in May 2013, the Audit Committee considered the Chairman, it also evaluates the commitments of individual appropriateness of the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as the Directors and ensures that the membership of the Board and Groups External Auditor for the 2013 14 year.
In doing so it took its principal committees are refreshed periodically.
account of the Committees review of the External Auditors independence and objectivity, the ratio of audit to non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the audit process together with other relevant During the last two financial years, the Committee was focused on review processes conducted throughout the year.
Board succession planning and successfully dealt with a number of changes to the composition of the Board, resulting in the The Committee is conscious of provisions of the 2012 Code, against appointment of Richard Macdonald, Stephen Alexander and Sue which the Company shall formally report in its next reporting cycle, Farr.
All of those appointments were achieved following preparation in particular, provision C. 3.7 which recommends FTSE 350 of outlines of the roles and capabilities required for the appointments companies should put their audit contract out to tender at least and with the use of an external search consultancy.
The Committee does not currently have a formal pleased with the way the Board is working following all of the change policy dealing with the frequency with which the contract for the which has occurred over the last two years.
We have an excellent external audit should be tendered, or the tenure of the External mix of styles and personalities amongst the Directors with an Auditor.
The 2012 13 audit was led by a new Audit Engagement impressive range of backgrounds and business and other Partner who assumed responsibility for the audit under the External experience.
Directors interact in a way which is thoughtful, Auditors normal rotation policy and the Committee remained challenging, supportive and intended to do the very best for Dairy satisfied as to the External Auditors independence.
Nevertheless, Crest, its shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.
the Committee shall continue to monitor best practice developments in the UK and EU and take an appropriate time in which to formulate The Committees work on succession planning continued during a suitable policy.
The Nomination Committee was closely involved in the consideration and planning of the changes which the Group has Following its review, the Committee was satisfied that it should made during the year to its structure and the impact of those recommend to the Board the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as the changes not only on the Board, but also at the senior executive level Companys and Groups External Auditor at the AGM on 16 July 2013. below the Board.
Succession planning remains a focus into the future and the Committee continues to maintain a watching brief for additional candidates who might improve further the balance of skills, backgrounds, experience, knowledge and diversity amongst the Board.
The Committee is satisfied that the complementary balance of skills and experience which we have amongst the Directors means that there is resilience around the Board table.
The Committee would nonetheless expect that when the Board next decides it would be appropriate to recruit a further Non-executive Director, experience which would enable candidates to chair the Audit Committee is likely to be a prerequisite.
The Committees work programme during the year included a review of its terms of reference, which it updated formally to include the Groups policy to diversity.
Consistent with the recommendations of the Davies Report Women on Boards, I published a statement on diversity for the Group which can be found on the Companys website www.
The Group has not adopted targets for female representation amongst the Directors.
The Company interprets diversity in its widest sense and aims to achieve the best possible leadership for the Group by ensuring an appropriate balance of skills, backgrounds, experience and knowledge amongst its Directors, senior managers and other employees.
The Committee and the Board recognise that there is a 38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 72236 Glasshouse p34-p40.
indd 38 04 06 2013 04:13 Report of the Directors paucity of females amongst the senior management population of Corporate Responsibility Committee report the Group, reflecting the food manufacturing industry generally but that improving female representation amongst that constituency I am pleased as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility would be advantageous.
However, the Committee considers that, Committee to present the Groups Corporate Responsibility first and foremost, appointments must be made based on an Report to shareholders for the financial year 2012 13 at pages objective assessment of who is the best person to fill a role, and that 26 to 29.
The Committee oversees the Groups corporate assessment must take into account the broadest possible responsibility programme and ensures that key social, ethical assessment of candidates skills and backgrounds.
The Group will and environmental risks are identified, assessed and prioritised.
continue to operate policies giving equal opportunities to all, Sue Farr, each of the Executive Directors, the Company irrespective of age, gender, marital status, disability, nationality, Secretary, the Group HR Director and the Corporate Affairs colour, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation.
Director are the other members of the Committee.
The frequency of the Committees meetings and attendance of Board The Committee reviewed the commitments of the Non-executive members at those meetings is set out in the table at page 11.
Directors and any changes which occurred to their commitments during the year.
When the Committee considered my appointment to the Chairmanship of the Premier League, I took no part in its The Committee believes that the Groups employees should be deliberations.
The Committee was satisfied that all Non-executives proud of their commitment to corporate responsibility, in particular continued to be in a position to devote sufficient time to the fulfilment the achievement, through their commitment to the corporate of their duties as Directors.
responsibility principles which the Group has adopted, of a platinum rating in the BITC corporate responsibility audit this year.
They The Committee was satisfied that given the performance of each of should be particularly proud of that achievement given that this is the Directors, their input, contribution, expertise and experience, it only the second year in which the Group has undertaken the BITC should recommend to the Board that they be nominated for election audit.
The progress which the Group has made with corporate or re-election as applicable at this years AGM.
responsibility during the year is further exemplified by it being shortlisted for BITCs company of the year award.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own performance, one of the outputs of which was the formal review of its terms of The Groups achievements do not begin and end with awards.
The Committee was satisfied with its performance and basic tenet of the Committees approach that the Groups corporate the contribution of its members.
responsibility programme delivers not only, amongst other things, ethical, behavioural and community benefits, but must also deliver Anthony Fry Chairman of the Nomination Committee tangible benefits to the Groups businesses.
Once again, the Group 22 May 2013 has succeeded in that aim by, amongst other things, delivering financial as well as environmental benefits by reducing its carbon footprint and by delivering financial and human benefits by reducing the Groups accident and incident rate through its continued focus on improving health and safety.
As you will see from the Corporate Responsibility report at pages 26 to 29, Dairy Crest is a business committed to corporate responsibility.
Richard Macdonald Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 22 May 2013 Management Board The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises the other Executive Directors and senior members of the Groups executive team.
Details of the members of the Management Board can be found at pages 10 to 12.
The Management Board is responsible, amongst other matters, for implementing the Groups strategic direction and monitoring the performance of the business and its control procedures on a day-to-day basis, as well as the day-to-day operations of the Groups business, its performance against forecasts and budgets and profitability.
The Management Board normally meets weekly.
Dialogue with shareholders The Board believes in the importance of an on-going relationship with its shareholders.
It fully supports the principles encouraging dialogue between companies and their shareholders in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK Stewardship Code.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
They are supported by the Groups Corporate Affairs Director who, amongst other matters, Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 39 72236 Glasshouse p34-p40.
indd 39 04 06 2013 13:23 Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued organises presentations for analysts and institutional investors and holds meetings with key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities immediately after the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements.
Slide presentations made to institutional shareholders are made available on the Companys website along with annual and interim reports, interim management statements, trading updates and company announcements.
Announcements are made as appropriate and required through a Regulatory Information Service.
All the Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with shareholders.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the Board to ensure that all Directors have a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
The Board receives feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director on their meetings with shareholders, periodic reports on investor relations and independent feedback from the Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman of the Board together with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has met with a number of shareholders during the year to consult on proposals for a new long-term incentive plan for the Group.
The notice of each AGM together with other related papers is dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All Directors attend the AGM and are available to answer shareholder questions before, during and after the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board provides the meeting with an update on the progress and performance of the Group before the formal business of each AGM is addressed and a resolution is proposed relating to the Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of the proxy voting on each resolution are announced at the AGM including the level of votes for and against resolutions and abstentions, and are posted on the Companys website following the conclusion of the meeting.
At the 2013 AGM, consistent with corporate governance best practice, voting at the AGM will be conducted on a poll and the result published on the Company's website after the meeting.
Financial and business reporting The Directors recognise their responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Their responsibility statement can be found at page 56.
An explanation of the Companys business model can be found under Long-term strategy in the Chief Executives review at page 14 and at pages 18 to 33.
The Directors make appropriate going concern statements in the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and the Annual Report and Accounts.
The statement in this Report and Accounts can be found at page 53.
40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 72236 Glasshouse p34-p40.
