Corporate governance statement Compliance with the UK Corporate The Board The Chief Executive is responsible for Governance Code The Board is collectively accountable running the business and implementing In the period to 30 March 2013, as to the Companys shareholders for good Board strategy and policy.
In particular detailed below and in the risk and risk corporate governance and all Directors the Chief Executive has operational management report and the remuneration are responsible for complying with their responsibility to: report on pages 27 to 30 and 48 to 58 legal and fiduciary obligations.
The Maintain a senior management team with respectively, the Company complied fully Board is firmly committed to complying the appropriate knowledge, experience, with the requirements of the UK Corporate with the highest standards of corporate skills, attitude and motivation to achieve Governance Code June 2010 the Code.
governance, which is the system of the Companys objectives We explain in the report below and in internal principles, controls and processes the risk and risk management report and it approves and by which the Group is Exercise personal leadership and remuneration report how we have applied run in order to achieve its objectives while develop, on an ongoing basis, a the provisions of the FSA Listing Rules, the complying with the required standards management style which encourages Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the of accountability and probity.
excellent and open working relationships Code.
The Code is publicly available at at all levels within the Group The core objectives of the Board are: www.
uk Ensure through the Group Finance Delivering value to shareholders and The Groups corporate governance Director, the implementation, control and other stakeholders procedures, which are approved by the coordination of the Groups financial and Board, define the matters reserved to the Maintaining the Companys reputation funding policies approved by the Board Board, the terms of reference of various for integrity as the Companys foundation In conjunction with the Executive Committees of the Board and the functions of its relationship with stakeholders, Committee, comprising business unit delegated to these Committees, as well shareholders, customers, staff and managing directors and other senior as defining the jobs of the Chairman, Chief suppliers executives, present strategic options Executive, Group Finance Director and Building long term success through for growth in shareholder value Non-executive Directors.
The Company innovation, quality and sound reviews and amends its corporate Set the operating plans and budgets management governance policies to reflect changes required to deliver the agreed strategy to legislation and good practice.
Board composition and responsibilities The role and responsibilities of the The Board comprises five independent Business ethics Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Non-executive Directors, the Non-executive The Group delivers high profile security Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman and two Executive Directors.
The print products to customers across the other Directors are also clearly defined.
Full Board has concluded that its composition world, offering them security, confidence details are set out on the Groups website.
throughout the year was and remains and efficiency.
It is essential that the Group The Executive Directors and the Executive appropriately balanced.
maintains the trust and confidence of its Committee operate within clearly defined customers, and everyone it deals with, There is a clear division between the limits of authority delegated by the Board.
both inside and outside the Group, by management of the Board and the Board changes demonstrating complete integrity in the way Executive Directors responsibility for Nicholas Brookes retired as Chairman the Group and its business partners behave.
However, and as a Non-executive Director on no individual or small group can dominate The Group has clear core values and 26 July 2012.
He was succeeded by decision making.
The roles of the Chairman principles which govern how the Group Philip Rogerson, who joined the Board and Chief Executive are separated and does business and which everyone within as Chairman designate on 1 March 2012. clearly defined.
The way the Group Sir Julian Horn-Smith resigned from the delivers these will be reflected in the way The Chairman is primarily responsible for Board on 31 December 2012. the Group competes for business and the working and leadership of the Board Andrew Stevens joined the Board as a delivers its services.
and he provides continuity, experience Non-executive Director on 2 January 2013. and governance to the Board process.
Regular external audits are undertaken As he was appointed a Director since the In particular the Chairman will act in such of the Groups anti bribery and corruption last AGM he will, being eligible, offer himself a way as to ensure that: policies and processes.
These audits have for election at the AGM.
confirmed that the Group is following best The Board takes balanced and objective Sir Jeremy Greenstock will retire from the practice and compares well with similar decisions in the performance of its Board following the AGM in July 2013. companies, reflecting the work undertaken agreed role and functions in this area in recent years.
The Non-executive Directors hold letters The Board sets a strategy for the future of appointment which will be displayed An Ethics Committee has been established, of the business and recruits and retains at the AGM, together with the Executive consisting of the Non-executive Directors the people in the Group it needs to Directors service agreements and of the Company.
Further information on this implement that strategy Directors indemnification agreements.
Committee is set out on page 45 and the High standards of probity throughout the terms of reference of the Ethics Committee Role and operation of the Board Group are established are on the Groups website.
The Board has a programme of meetings Shareholders are kept properly informed during the year and it also meets on an Further information on the Groups ethical on all important matters ad hoc basis as required.
The Boards framework can be found on pages 31 to 32. core procedures are set out in the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees and Directors and include the control of risk.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 42 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements The Board has also reserved certain Non-executive Directors are expected Commitment matters to itself to reinforce its control to participate actively in Board discussions The Directors biographies and other of the Group.
Full details are set out involving the following key elements: appointments appear on pages 36 and 37. on the Groups website.
These include: The Boards policy is that the Chairman Strategy: constructively challenge and and Executive Directors should accept Determining the responsibilities of contribute to the development of strategy appointments to the boards of other Directors, in particular those of the Performance: review the performance companies only with the prior approval of Chairman and Chief Executive of management in meeting agreed goals the Board.
Non-executive Directors must Approving internal control processes and objectives seek the agreement of the Chairman and confirmation by the Board before accepting Approving the final and interim financial Risk: ensure that the financial and other additional commitments that may affect statements information is accurate and appropriate the time they devote to their role.
The to enable the Non-executive Directors to Approving, in conjunction with the Board is satisfied that these commitments fulfil their roles and that financial controls Audit Committee, the recommendation do not conflict with their ability to carry and systems of risk management are of dividends out effectively their duties as Directors robust and defensible of the Company.
Approving appointments to, and People: contribute to the development of removals from, the Board and the terms Board diversity appropriate levels of senior management of reference and membership of Board The Board recognises and understands including Executive Directors and Committees the importance and benefits of gender succession planning diversity and currently has two female Approving the Groups strategy and Board evaluation and effectiveness review Non-executive Directors 25 per cent of the annual budget A performance evaluation of the Board and Board.
The Board expects to maintain the Authorisation of authority levels, financial each of the Nomination, Remuneration and proportion of women Directors to at least and treasury policies and any acquisition Audit Committees is carried out annually.
the current level, while maintaining flexibility or disposal The performance evaluation for 2013 to ensure that all appointments are made involved the use of an external independent on merit, regardless of gender.
Subject to the provisions of relevant facilitator, Linstock Limited.
statutes, the Companys articles of The Groups equality and diversity policy association and any directions given The 2013 effectiveness review is discussed further in the corporate by special resolution, the Directors may process involved completion of online responsibility report on page 34. exercise all the powers of the Company.
questionnaires which focused on Board Succession planning composition, expertise and dynamics, Role of Non-executive Directors The Board reviews its composition at Board support and process, structure, The Non-executive Directors, all of least annually, assessing the skills profile, behaviours and key issues, such as whom are considered by the Board to be diversity, type and number of Nonstrategy and succession, against delivery independent as at 30 March 2013, have executive Directors required to enable the of the Boards objectives and addressing an appropriate range of business, financial Board to perform effectively.
The Board any issues identified during the previous and international experience which is also reviews the Groups internal talent review or which became relevant during relevant to the Companys activities and review process in planning Executive the year.
A report on the performance which allows them constructively to assist Director and senior management of the Board and each of the principal in the development of strategy.
Committees was compiled and presented of the Non-executive Directors holds a to the Board and each relevant Committee Induction and training material shareholding in the Company.
as a basis for discussing and agreeing All new Directors receive an induction Under the Code, Philip Rogerson ceased appropriate actions for the forthcoming on joining the Company, for which the to be independent after his appointment year.
The Risk Committee was evaluated Chairman is responsible.
This covers as Chairman on 26 July 2012 but the by the Board.
such matters as the strategy, operation Board considers that his contribution and activities of the Group including and objectivity in Board and Committee The Chairman and each Committee key financial data, and business, social discussions were fully consistent with those Chairman has discussions with each and environmental risks to the Groups of an independent director.
Director or Committee member based activities, corporate governance matters on the responses.
The Senior Independent Sir Jeremy Greenstock is the Senior such as the role of the Board and individual Director is responsible for appraising the Independent Director until his retirement Committees, and the Groups corporate Chairmans performance in discussions from the Board at the conclusion of the governance procedures as outlined in this with the Non-executive Directors in the 2013 AGM when he will be succeeded report.
They are advised on the duties and absence of the Chairman.
The Chairman by Warren East.
Shareholders may contact obligations of directors of a listed company.
and the Non-executive Directors also meet the Senior Independent Director if they Site visits and meetings with senior in the absence of the Executive Directors.
consider that their concerns are not being management are also arranged.
Any newly addressed through normal channels.
The Board and individual Committees appointed Director, who has not previously Non-executive Directors confirm on considered the output from the review been a director of a listed company, is appointment, and any reappointment, in May 2013 and concluded that the invited to attend external training covering that they are able to allocate sufficient time performance of the Board, its Committees such duties and responsibilities.
to enable them to discharge their duties and individual directors were effective.
Directors who have been unable Any areas for improvement are agreed to attend Board or Committee meetings by the Board.
have made known their views on pertinent matters before the meeting.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 43 Corporate governance statement Continued Directors are briefed, where appropriate, Directors receive agendas and Board The Board, having carried out the by the Companys external advisers and papers generally five days before each effectiveness and evaluation process, functional management on changes to Board meeting: minutes are circulated as considers the performance of each of legislation, regulation or market practice.
soon as possible after the meeting.
The the Directors standing for election and Briefings from individual businesses are Board reviews progress on implementing re-election at this years AGM to be fully also received throughout the year.
The actions arising from the Board and its satisfactory and is of the opinion that they Directors have the opportunity of attending Committee meetings each month.
have demonstrated ongoing effectiveness appropriate training sessions.
and continued commitment to the role.
There is also a defined procedure for The Board visits at least one operational dealing with urgent matters between The Board strongly supports their site each year Malta and Overton in Board meetings.
election and re-election and recommends 2012 13.
Directors are also encouraged that shareholders vote in favour of the Any Director can request additional to visit other sites and meet with staff.
information from management at any The General Counsel and Company time.
All Directors have direct access to Conflicts of interests Secretary, in conjunction with the the advice and services of the General Directors have a duty to avoid a direct Chairman, ensures that there is proper Counsel and Company Secretary who or indirect interest which conflicts, or may communication between the Board and is responsible for ensuring that Board conflict, with the interests of the Group its Committees and senior management procedures are followed.
The Board unless that conflict has been authorised and that Non-executive Directors receive decides the appointment and removal by the Board.
Such conflict may arise appropriate information.
The Chairman of the Company Secretary.
by reason of a situation or a specific reviews and the General Counsel and transaction.
The Board has established a Company Secretary facilitates induction Appointments and annual election process to review at least annually and, if and other professional development All Directors are required to submit thought appropriate, authorise any conflict as required.
New of interest and has carried out such review Directors are subject to election by Directors may take independent and authorised all Directors situational shareholders at the first opportunity after their professional advice at the Companys conflicts.
Any transactional conflicts are appointment.
Non-executive Directors are expense, although no such advice was reviewed as they arise.
Directors are asked appointed for an initial period of three years sought during the year.
to review and confirm reported conflicts of with the expectation of two such three year interests as part of the year end process.
Board protocol terms subject to satisfactory performance.
The Board timetable ensures that the Board Indemnity The Board may invite a Non-executive receives regular reports and presentations To the extent permitted by the Companies Director to serve a further term after six from the Executive Directors, operational Act 2006 and the FSA Listing Rules the years following a detailed review at the managing directors and key functions.
Company indemnifies certain officers so end of this period, subject to re-election.
that the Company may advance defence costs in civil or regulatory proceedings on such terms as the Board may reasonably Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings determine but any advance must be The number of Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director refunded if the Director or officer is during the year was as follows: subsequently convicted.
The indemnity Directors attendance Audit Ethics Nomination Remuneration will not provide cover where the Director or 2012 13 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Number of meetings held 10 4 1 1 3 Corporate responsibility Nicholas Brookes 4 5 Information on the Groups initiatives and resigned 26 July 2012 commitment to corporate responsibility Colin Child 10 10 can be found in the corporate responsibility Tim Cobbold 10 10 1 1 report on pages 31 to 35.
Warren East 9 10 4 4 1 1 1 1 2 2 Sir Jeremy Greenstock 8 10 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 3 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 6 8 1 4 0 1 1 2 resigned 31 December 2012 Victoria Jarman 10 10 4 4 1 1 1 1 2 2 Gill Rider 10 10 4 4 1 1 1 1 3 3 Philip Rogerson 9 10 1 1 1 1 3 3 Andrew Stevens 2 2 0 1 0 1 appointed 2 January 2013 Note Figures in brackets denote the maximum numbers of meetings that could have been attended fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 44 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Committees of the Board Nomination Committee The Committee, chaired by the General The Board has established Audit, The Committee consists of five Counsel and Company Secretary, meets Remuneration, Nomination, General independent Non-executive Directors and reports to the Board at least twice a Business, Ethics and Risk Committees at the date of this report together with year.
Other members of the Committee with appointed Chairmen and fixed terms the Chairman who chairs the Committee include the Chief Executive, Group Finance of reference which are reviewed annually.
Director, heads of the principal functions, The terms of reference and duties of the all divisional managing directors, the Group The Committee meets at least once a year Board and its Committees appear on the Director of Risk and Internal Audit and the and otherwise as necessary and makes Groups website and are also available Group Director of Security.
Any Director recommendations to the Board with on request.
The Board is satisfied that the is entitled to attend any meeting.
At the regard to any vacancies for Executive or Committees have the appropriate balance year end, following review by the Audit Non-executive Directors or other changes of skills, experience and independence and Committee of internal financial controls and to the composition of the Board that are that they discharged their responsibilities of the processes covering these controls, considered necessary.
Membership of these the Board evaluates the results of the risk the power to employ the services of such Committees is given in the Directors management procedures conducted by advisers as it deems necessary in order to biographies on pages 36 and 37.
The Committee details of Committees and key activities also reviews the time commitment required The Committee is assisted by Group performed during the year are given of Non-executive Directors at least once wide committees which deal with specific elsewhere in this annual report.
The Board, as a whole, approves areas of risk such as the Health, Safety Ethics Committee the appointment and removal of Directors and Environment Committee and the The Board established the Ethics and retains appropriate executive search Security Committee.
Committee in September 2012 comprising consultants, having prepared a job Details of risk management and particular all Non-executive Directors and chaired specification for the particular role to be risks within the Group are set out on pages by the Chairman with the Chief Executive filled.
The principal activity of the Committee 27 to 30.
The General Counsel during the year was succession planning and Company Secretary is secretary to the and the recruitment of Andrew Stevens, Internal controls Committee and advises on governance.
our new Non-executive Director, following a The Company has complied with the rigorous recruitment process in conjunction provisions of the Code relating to internal The main responsibilities of the Ethics with an external search consultant.
control, which require the Board to review Committee are to: the effectiveness of internal controls and Remuneration Committee Advise the Board on the development to have in place an ongoing process for Gill Rider was appointed to the of strategy and policy on ethical matters identifying, evaluating and managing Remuneration Committee in July 2006 the key risks including financial and non Advise the Board on steps to be taken to and she has been the Committee financial, operational and compliance embed a culture of integrity and honesty Chairman since 26 July 2007.
Details controls and risk management systems.
in all of the Groups business dealings of the Committee and of the remuneration Further details are contained in the risk and policy can be found in the remuneration Oversee the Groups policies and risk management report on pages 27 to 30. report on pages 48 to 58. procedures for the identification, This process has been in place throughout assessment, management and reporting Risk Committee the year and up to the date of approval of ethical risk Core responsibilities of the Risk Committee by the Board of the annual report and are to: Oversee the development and accounts.
The Board concluded its latest adoption of, and compliance with, the Assist the Board by assessing and review in May 2013.
Groups ethical due diligence policies reporting on the effectiveness, and This does not extend to associated and procedures covering business promoting awareness of, the Groups companies or joint ventures where the relationships, including third party internal control and risk management Group does not have management control.
partners and mergers, acquisitions systems and major new projects Assist the Board in fulfilling its Oversee the investigation of any responsibilities by reviewing the framework material irregularities of an ethical nature for managing risks throughout the Group and review subsequent findings and Provide an appropriate level of reporting recommendations on the status of risk management within The Ethics Committee will bring an the Group impartial viewpoint and best practice from Provide an appropriate level of reporting other industries and underlines the Groups to the Board, which retains the overall commitment to ensuring that business responsibility, on the status of internal ethics are a fundamental and enduring risk management part of the Groups culture.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 45 Corporate governance statement Continued Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee provides an Internal audit continued to ensure of the Board independent overview of the effectiveness that efforts were better aligned to the I am pleased to present the report of the of the internal financial control systems and operational risks that the Group faces Audit Committee for the period.
Its principal while maintaining an emphasis on responsibilities include: reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness The role of the Audit Committee is to of general finance and IT controls across review and report to the Board on the The appointment of the external the Group on a cyclical basis.
In addition Groups financial reporting, internal control auditor and the agreement of terms of to internal audit work, there is a system and risk management processes and the engagement at the start of each audit of self assessment internal control independence and effectiveness of the and the external audit fee reviews by which management are external auditor KPMG Audit Plc KPMG.
Approving and reviewing progress required to detail and certify that controls The terms of reference of the Audit on audit plans across the businesses are in operation to ensure the control Committee are available on the Groups and the effectiveness of internal audit environment in their business areas is website.
Actions agreed are followed Reviewing the integrity of the interim up by senior management to ensure that The following report details the and full year financial statements satisfactory control is maintained.
The Committees responsibilities and key tasks Reviewing and monitoring the external internal audit plan is set and reviewed during the period.
auditors independence and objectivity by the Audit Committee.
Additionally, the Audit Committee reviews reports from Reviewing reports on the effectiveness KPMG on internal control matters noted Warren East of the Groups whistleblowing procedures as part of their audit work.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and arrangements, details of which are 29 May 2013 set out on page 31 Auditors The Audit Committee assesses annually During the year, the Audit Committee the qualification, expertise and resources met on four occasions and dealt with Composition of the Audit Committee and independence of the external auditors the following additional matters: Warren East was appointed Chairman and the effectiveness of the audit process.
of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2009.
A review of the Groups business The Audit Committees assessment He has been the chief executive of a listed continuity arrangements is performed by an audit satisfaction company and therefore has strong financial questionnaire completed by the Chairman, Plans to further develop the Groups experience.
In addition, Victoria Jarman relevant senior management and Audit internal control framework is a chartered accountant and is chair of Committee members.
the audit committee at Hays plc and has Appointment of a new internal audit KPMG have been the Companys auditors relevant financial experience.
All members service provider since 11 October 2006.
The Audit of the Audit Committee are independent Internal audit Committee considers that the relationship Non-executive Directors.
At the invitation Assurance over the design and operation with the auditors is working well and of the Committee Chairman, meetings are of internal controls across the Group remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive, is provided through a combination of During the year, the Audit Committee Group Finance Director, General Counsel techniques.
The Board through the Audit considered the tenure, performance and and Company Secretary, Group Director Committee monitors the effectiveness of audit fees of the external auditor, and of Risk and Internal Audit and the external internal control systems through reports the level of non audit work undertaken, and internal auditors.
The internal and received from the internal audit function and recommended to the Board that a external auditors each meet the Committee during the year.
The internal audit function resolution for the reappointment of KPMG without Executive Directors or employees has been outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP for a further year as the Companys auditor of the Company being present.
As part of the regular review be proposed to shareholders at the AGM.
process, during 2012 13, it was decided to put the contract for the provision of internal audit services out to tender.
Following the tender exercise,  LLP was appointed as our outsourced internal audit provider with effect from the start of 2013 14. fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 46 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Following completion of the 2011 12 It may be cost effective for KPMG to audit KPMGs audit engagement partner perform certain non audit services, in was rotated.
The new audit engagement particular where the skills and experience partner undertook a thorough introduction required make KPMG the most suitable programme to ensure he was fully familiar supplier.
Certain categories of non with the Groups business.
audit services, including corporation tax compliance and due diligence services, The Audit Committee places great must be subject to competitive tender emphasis on the objectivity of the unless it is justifiable in the circumstances Groups auditors, KPMG, in reporting not to do so.
Areas which would not to shareholders.
normally be acceptable non audit services The KPMG audit partner is present but in exceptional circumstances may be at Audit Committee meetings to ensure considered appropriate, such as litigation communication of matters relating to the and compliance services, require the audit.
The Audit Committee has discussions specific prior approval of the Chairman of with the auditors, without management the Audit Committee.
The selection criteria being present, on the adequacy of controls include detailed proposals, timescales, and on judgemental areas and receives local resource, cost and the safeguards and reviews the auditors highlights reports put in place by KPMG.
In addition, any and management letters which are one of individual assignment to be undertaken the main outputs from the external audit.
by KPMG where the fee is likely to be in excess of 50,000 must be approved by The scope and key focus of the the Audit Committee Chairman prior to any forthcoming years audit is discussed with, commencement of work.
During 2012 13 and approved by, the Audit Committee.
the amount of non audit fees paid to Independence and objectivity of auditors KPMG was 0.1m.
The Audit Committee has a detailed policy The safeguards KPMG put in place covering: avoid compromising their objectivity and Choosing the statutory auditor and independence.
They report to the Audit approving the audit fee Committee on how they comply with professional and regulatory requirements Commissioning non audit work and best practice designed to ensure their Defining circumstances in which it is independence.
Key members of the KPMG appropriate or inappropriate for incumbent audit team rotate and the firm ensures, auditors to be allowed to provide or where appropriate, that confidentiality is prohibited from providing non audit work maintained between different parts of the firm providing services to fide La Rue.
fide La Rues procedures for procuring non audit services from external sources, A copy of the corporate governance which specifically prohibits KPMG from statement will be made available on undertaking certain types of service the Groups website.
including but not limited to services By order of the Board where it would audit its own work, where it would act in an advocacy role for the Group or where it would Edward Peppiatt participate in activities normally Company Secretary undertaken by management 29 May 2013 fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 47
