62 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance report continued 2013 board programme Share capital and control The board held six meetings during 2013 which were fully Information which the directors are required to provide pursuant attended by all the board members.
In addition to the directors, to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found on page board meetings were attended by the Retail Director, the HR 53 of the directors report.
Director, the Group Trading Director, the Marketing Director Shareholder engagement and the Company Secretary.
The board is responsible for ensuring that the Company Each board meeting covers presentations from the executive maintains a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
directors and from each of the other members of the executive The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are always committee.
Presentations are also received on a rotating basis available to major shareholders.
Formal trading updates are from the trading divisions and other business areas including given to the market on 6 occasions during the year.
Following investor relations, treasury, taxation and health and safety.
each of these announcements, conference calls are held with In addition, the board receives regular updates on the key group shareholders and analysts and after the full year and interim risks and ensures that the risk management framework and profile results a presentation is made to the shareholders and analysts.
supports the four pillared strategy.
In accordance with the Code, Analysts or brokers briefings are circulated to the board.
there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the boards A programme of meetings and conference calls is also organised decision which is reviewed annually in October.
at appropriate times during the year at which the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer comment on Company performance The board also holds an off site meeting annually in February and respond to any issues raised by investors.
In addition to focus specifically on the Companys strategy.
Debenhams arranges visits to its stores for analysts and Board committees shareholders and holds regular capital markets days dedicated The board committees are the Audit, Remuneration and to specific pillars of the strategy.
The terms of reference which are The major shareholders of the Company are listed on page 53 reviewed annually of each committee can be found on our of the directors report.
The members and the role of each committee are disclosed on pages 64, 65, 66, 79 and 80 of this report.
In addition there is a Sustainability Committee which is a committee of the board and is chaired by Martina King.
Details of the role and achievements of the Sustainability Committee are available on our website: http: sustainability.
Investor relations calendar Capital markets day: Full year results presentation US shareholder roadshow First half interim management European shareholder First half trading update First half results US shareholder roadshow Capital markets day: Oxford Street statement roadshows transformation Focusing on UK retail Full year trading update UK shareholder roadshow European shareholder AGM UK shareholder roadshow Second half interim roadshows management statement Capital markets day: Delivering a compelling customer proposition September 2012 October 2012 November 2012 January 2013 February 2013 March 2013 April 2013 May 2013 June 2013 Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements 63 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 January 2013 AGM key highlights Shareholders by geography Latest investor information Full director attendance You can find all our latest investor news 805.6 million to 899.7 million votes cast and financial reports online, as well as for each resolution our financial calendar and regulatory announcements.
You can also monitor All directors retired and were re-elected the share price and calculate the value to the board receiving at least 98.4% of of your shareholding.
votes cast in favour Visit our investor relations Remuneration report resolution passed section of our website with 99.36% of votes cast in favour http: debenhamsplc.
com % or scan this QR code: England 59 USA 15 UAE 7 Scotland 4 Singapore 3 Spain 3 Norway 3 Other 6 Capital markets day: Full year results presentation US shareholder roadshow First half interim management European shareholder First half trading update First half results US shareholder roadshow Capital markets day: Oxford Street statement roadshows transformation Focusing on UK retail Full year trading update UK shareholder roadshow European shareholder AGM UK shareholder roadshow Second half interim roadshows management statement Capital markets day: Delivering a compelling customer proposition September 2012 October 2012 November 2012 January 2013 February 2013 March 2013 April 2013 May 2013 June 2013
