Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements 65 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Audit Committee The Membership of the Audit Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, is set out below: Date appointed Attendance at Members committee member meetings during year Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 3 3 Committee Chairman appointed Committee Chairman 2 September 2012 Peter Fitzgerald 18 October 2012 2 2 Martina King 1 August 2009 3 3 Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 3 3 Sophie Turner Laing 1 May 2010 3 3 Mark Rolfe Chairman, Audit Committee Peter Fitzgerald was invited to join the Audit Committee in October 2012 and therefore was only eligible to attend two meetings during the period.
The Audit Committee Main activities during the year comprises members with Recommended to the board the approval of all financial statements released by the Company a broad range of business Monitored the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and and financial experience risk management to fulfil its programme Appointed a new external audit partner of work effectively.
Approved the external auditors plan and fees Approved the internal audit plan Reviewed the independence of the external auditors and the fees paid to them for non-audit work Reviewed its terms of reference Following a review by the board of the Audit Committee composition, it was decided that Peter Fitzgerald be appointed to the Audit Committee.
The Committee comprises members with a broad range of business and financial experience to fulfil its programme of work effectively.
The board regards Dennis Millard and myself to have recent and relevant financial experience.
As usual, our activities this year have included financial reporting, risk management, monitoring internal controls and reviewing and approving external and internal audits.
We have also considered the changes to the Corporate Governance Code which will apply to Debenhams in 2014 relating to financial reporting and audit and the guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012.
The Committee met three times during the financial year.
In addition to the members of the Committee, the Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Internal Audit and Risk and senior representatives of the Companys external auditors,  LLP, attended and received papers for each meeting.
The Group Treasurer and Head of Personal Finance and the Head of Tax delivered an annual presentation to the Committee.
The Company Secretary, who is supported on this committee by the Deputy Company Secretary, attends all meetings in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee but also reports on any material litigation and corporate governance issues including an ongoing review of external auditor independence.
After each meeting the Chairman reports to the board on the matters discussed, on recommendations and on actions to be taken.
The Committee also met privately with the Companys external auditors twice during the year and once with the Director of Internal Audit and Risk and the Chief Financial Officer.
66 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance report continued The Committees primary Audit Committee continued responsibilities are to monitor the integrity Our responsibilities The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are to monitor the integrity of financial of financial statements, statements including any related information presented with the financial statements review changes in and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, to review any changes in accounting principles and consider the appropriateness of accounting principles, accounting policies adopted by the Company, review the Groups internal and external audit activity and to review and monitor the effectiveness of the risk management review internal and external and internal control systems within the business.
audit activity and monitor External auditors independence effectiveness of the risk In order to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained with the external auditors, a policy on auditor independence has been established and is reviewed management and internal annually.
The policy covers matters such as that auditors and their staff must have no control environment.
family, financial, employment, investment or business relationship with the Company, the employment by the Company of former audit employees, the rotation of audit partners and the provision of non-audit services.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the board in respect of re-appointment annually for inclusion in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
As regards the risk of the external auditors withdrawal from the market, the Company considers that there are sufficient other auditors in the market place should this situation ever arise.
The objective of the Audit Committees policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors is to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
An independent report is produced each quarter during the year detailing all non-audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it.
This information is reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting by the Company Secretary.
The Companys policy identifies three categories of accounting services.
The first category is audit-related services which the auditors are permitted to provide.
The second category is prohibited services which the auditors are not permitted to provide.
Prohibited services are those which might result in the external auditor auditing its own work, or making management decisions for the Company, and those where some mutuality of interest is created or where the external auditor is put in the role of advocate for the Company.
The third category is potential services which the auditors may, in certain circumstances, provide subject to compliance with the independence policy.
These services include tax advisory services or services where the auditors are acting as the Companys reporting accountant.
0.2 million was paid by the Company to  for non-audit services in respect of advisory services.
The audit fees paid by the pension schemes were 30,700.
External auditors evaluation The performance evaluation of  was conducted internally through the circulation of a questionnaire to members of the Audit Committee and to key customers within the business.
The results of the evaluation were very satisfactory.
External auditors appointment In accordance with auditing standards and to protect independence and objectivity, Martin Hodgson, the current audit partner who has served on the Debenhams account for the last five years, was succeeded at the start of the new financial year, 1 September 2013, by John Ellis.
Mr Ellis has already conducted a review of the external audit plan for 2014 and is undergoing an induction programme with the Company to enhance his knowledge of Debenhams business.
Having considered the external auditors performance, effectiveness, resource, objectivity, independence, including the extent of non-audit services provided, the Committee has recommended to the board that  LLP, who have served as auditors of the Company since May 2006, be re-elected auditors for 2014.
Mark Rolfe Chairman, Audit Committee
