58 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance report An integrated approach In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, The Chairman the Company confirms that throughout the year ended 31 August The main responsibility of the chairman is the effective 2013 and as at the date of this Annual Report it was compliant running of the board ensuring that all directors maximise their with all the relevant provisions as set out in the 2010 UK Corporate contributions in the development and implementation the Governance Code the Code copies of which can be Companys strategy whilst ensuring that the nature and extent downloaded from the Financial Reporting Council website of the significant risks the company is willing to embrace in the see www.
implementation of its strategy is determined and challenged.
The Chairman is also responsible for promoting the highest Leadership standards of corporate governance, the induction of new The board directors and their continual development and succession The board of Debenhams is collectively responsible for the planning.
The Chairman holds regular meetings with the nonlong-term success of the Company by directing and supervising executive directors without the executive directors being present.
the affairs of the Company and is accountable to its shareholders for the Groups strategic aims, risk management and performance.
Nigel Northridge has been Chairman since April 2010 and No individual or small group of individuals dominate the boards is also the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The Chief Executive Biographical details of the board of directors are on pages 56 The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day to 57.
The board currently has nine members: the chairman, six management of the business and for developing and independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
implementing the Groups strategic aims.
He is assisted by the executive committee which meets on a weekly basis.
Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors The Chief Executive does not hold any external directorships.
Chief Senior Independent Michael Sharp has been Chief Executive since September 2011.
Chief Financial Independent non-executive The Chief Financial Officer Executive Officer Director directors The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the financial Nigel Michael Simon Dennis Peter reporting and management of the Debenhams Group.
Northridge Sharp Herrick Millard Fitzgerald In addition to the finance, audit, tax and treasury teams, the Chief Financial Officer is also responsible for systems and Stephen logistics, legal and secretariat and investor relations.
The Chief Ingham Financial Officer does not hold any external directorships.
Martina Simon Herrick has been Chief Financial Officer since King January 2012.
Mark The Senior Independent Director Rolfe Any concerns which shareholders may have which are not Sophie appropriate for discussion through the normal channels of Turner Laing Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer would be dealt with by the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director also leads the Chairmans appraisal, serves as an intermediary for the other directors with the Chairman as necessary and acts as a sounding board for the Chairman as required.
Dennis Millard has been Senior Independent Director since May 2010 and is also chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Executive committee Michael Sharp Chief Executive Simon Herrick Suzanne Harlow Mike Goring Richard Cristofoli Nikki Zamblera Chief Financial Officer Group Trading Director Retail Director Marketing Director HR Director Financial reporting and Design, buying, UK and international Product marketing, HR, pay and reward, management, tax, merchandising, distribution, store operations and advertising, PR, visual learning & development, treasury, systems and sourcing, supply chain store development.
and creative, customer recruitment, pensions logistics, legal and and external business.
secretariat, internal audit and investor relations.
Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements 59 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairmans responsibilities Board experience The effective running of the board ensuring the Our board has a wealth of experience and expertise directors receive accurate and timely information to to govern and advise an international, multi-channel brand enable debate and high quality decision making like Debenhams.
Promoting high standards of corporate governance Ensuring the board agendas take full account of the Consumer important issues facing the Company and the concerns Number of directors with consumer experience: 9 of all board members Ensuring, as Chairman of the Nomination Committee, that there are board succession plans in place in order to retain and build an effective and complementary board Digital business Chief Executives responsibilities Number of directors with digital business experience: 5 Running the Company business Implementing the business strategy Regularly updating the board on progress against approved plans Ensuring the Executive Committee complies with all business policies, delegated authorities and regulations in achieving the objectives of the businesses International Number of directors with international experience: 7 Gender ratios Board % Marketing Male 78 Female 22 Number of directors with marketing experience: 6 Senior management team % Male 56 Female 44 Employee workforce % Male 24 Female 76
