64 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee The membership of the Nomination Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings is set out below: Date appointed Attendance at Members committee member meetings during year Nigel Northridge Chairman 1 April 2010 3 3 Martina King 1 May 2010 3 3 Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 3 3 Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 3 3 Sophie Turner Laing 1 May 2010 3 3 Nigel Northridge Main activities during the year Chairman, Nomination Committee Recommended the appointment of Peter Fitzgerald and Stephen Ingham Reviewed its terms of reference and its own effectiveness Board appointments are Conducted a review of the board size and composition and the composition made against objective of the committees criteria to support the Reviewed the time commitment and length of service of the Chairman and each non-executive director four pillars of our Monitored directors conflicts of interest strategy to build a The Committee is scheduled to hold one meeting a year.
As shown above, leading international, the Committee met on a quorate basis on two further occasions.
Other attendees who may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting are the Chief Executive, multi-channel brand.
the HR Director and external advisers.
The Company Secretary also attends meetings in his capacity of Secretary of the Committee.
Board and committee changes During the year the board composition was enhanced by the appointments of Peter Fitzgerald and Stephen Ingham as independent non-executive directors.
Peter Fitzgerald joined the board in October 2012 and brings a wealth of experience in online retailing.
Stephen Ingham was appointed in January 2013 and we look forward to his contribution with regard to our international expansion.
Peter is a member of the Audit Committee and Stephen a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Both appointments were facilitated by external search consultants, the Miles Partnership in respect of Peter and the Lygon Group in respect of Stephen, who provided a shortlist of candidates for consideration by the Committee.
The candidates selected by the Committee were then interviewed by the majority of the board.
The Committee, having assessed the candidates following feedback from the interviewees and against objective criteria, then recommended the potential candidate to the board.
When recruiting non-executive directors, the Committee takes into account the board size, structure and composition having regard to the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of psychological type, background and gender so as to ensure that the board is well balanced and appropriate for the needs of the business.
The boards policy on diversity will be formalised during 2014 and will be disclosed in next years annual report.
Committee evaluation The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was undertaken by the Chairman and it was concluded that the Committee continues to operate effectively.
As last year, the Nomination Committee is, in line with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code, recommending that the directors of the Company stand for re-election election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Nigel Northridge Chairman, Nomination Committee
