Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements 61 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board induction To complement the Companys induction programme, Amrop Augmentum Amrop was appointed to assist with the induction of Peter Fitzgerald.
In addition to the operational items covered in Peters induction, the programme also covered finance, corporate governance, board behaviour, audit and risk issues.
On legal and governance matters, Peters induction was dealt with by the Company Secretary with input from Allen & Overy as part of the Amrop programme.
The Company Secretary Induction and ongoing development The Company Secretary provides support to the board and On appointment, a director is provided with an induction its committees and advises the Chairman and the board on all programme which is tailored to their listed company and retail corporate governance matters.
All directors have access to the experience.
The induction includes the provision of relevant services of the Company Secretary and in addition may take current and historical information about the Company together independent professional advice at the Companys expense with applicable business policies.
Meetings are arranged with in conducting their duties.
advisors and visits to operations around the Group are arranged.
One-to-one meetings are also held with members of the The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures executive committee and other senior executives in the business that the members of the board and its committees receive clear, as appropriate.
Ongoing development is made available comprehensive, up-to-date and timely information so that there including specific training for Audit Committee members.
can be thorough consideration of the issues prior to and informed debate and challenge at board and committee Directors conflicts of interest meetings.
All information is published in advance via a secure The Nomination Committee annually reviews and considers the web portal.
If directors are not able to attend meetings due interests and other external appointments held by the members to conflicts in their schedule, they review the papers for of the board.
All conflicts declared were approved at its meeting consideration at that meeting and relay any comments to in September.
The directors have a continuing duty to inform the the Chairman in advance of the meeting where possible board of any potential conflicts immediately so that such conflicts which are then passed on to the other directors.
may be considered and if authorised included within the register of conflicts.
Debenhams plc recognises that the non-executive Paul Eardley has been Company Secretary since October 2007. directors have other business interests outside of the Company Time commitment and that other directorships bring significant benefits to the All directors are aware of the need to allocate sufficient time board.
All existing directorships are detailed within the director to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Non-executive directors are The board monitors the extent of their external interests and any required to consult with the Chairman before accepting any conflicts on a continuing basis.
The letters of appointment for further appointments.
non-executive directors set out the time commitment expected Indemnification of directors to be necessary to perform their duties.
The time required Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in section by directors will fluctuate depending on the demands of the 234 of the Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of the business and other events but the expected number of days directors who held office during the year.
The Company also required for each non-executive director for meetings is ten days.
provides insurance cover and indemnities for its directors.
