Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements 55 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairmans introduction to governance Committed to high standards of corporate governance Dear shareholder Committed to a On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present the corporate governance report for the sustainable future financial year ended 31 August 2013.
As a UK listed company, Debenhams plc complies Debenhams does not have a with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and an explanation as to sustainability department.
For us, how we have applied the principles of the Code is set out in the corporate governance being environmentally and socially report.
In September 2012, a number of changes were made to the Code and those responsible is embedded into the changes are applicable to companies with a UK premium listing with financial years business and into everyones role.
beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
Debenhams will therefore report on its compliance with the 2012 version of the Code in its 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Learn more about our work in this area by visiting our sustainability website Has the board of Debenhams changed?
com Debenhams has continued to focus on building the right board to support our four pillared strategy.
As reported last year, Peter Fitzgerald joined us on 4 October 2012 or scan this QR code: as an independent non-executive director.
Growing our multi-channel business is a key part of Debenhams strategy and Peters experience in helping a retail business realise its online ambitions will be invaluable to Debenhams.
Stephen Ingham joined the board in January this year and his experience in building an international business supports our strategy to expand the Debenhams brand internationally.
What governance issues has the board focused on during the year?
The year has seen various changes to the narrative and remuneration reporting regulations.
The board has therefore reviewed and discussed these new regulations and how they will impact Debenhams for 2014.
In some instances we have chosen to embrace the regulations early as evidenced by the new structure of the directors remuneration report.
We have also performed board, committee, external auditors and benefits consultants performance evaluations during the year and details regarding the process and outcomes of those evaluations can be found on pages 60, 64, 66 and 81.
Why should you vote to re-elect your board?
In accordance with the Code, the board, its committees and each individual director will be evaluated by an external facilitator during 2014.
For the last two years, I have personally reviewed the performance of each board member by conducting individual interviews.
I can confirm that following the evaluation this year all of the directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Accordingly, the directors will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in December this year.
Stephen Ingham will offer himself for election having been appointed to the board on 8 January 2013.
