56 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board of directors Governed with experience Nigel Northridge Michael Sharp Dennis Millard CA SA, MBA Role: Chairman of the board and of the Role: Chief Executive since September Role: Senior Independent Director since Nomination Committee.
Nigel is also a 2011, Deputy Chief Executive from 2008 May 2010 following appointment as an member of the Remuneration Committee.
and Chief Operating Officer from 2006. independent non-executive director in May 2006.
Dennis is also Chairman of the Key strengths: Nigel has vast experience Key strengths: Michael is one of the UKs Remuneration Committee and a member of a range of businesses in both an most experienced retailers and has spent of the Nomination and Audit Committees.
executive role and non-executive capacity.
his entire career in the industry.
He has He spent 32 years with Gallaher Group plc worked for Debenhams or its predecessor, Key strengths: As chairman of another including seven years as chief executive the Burton Group, since 1985.
Michael retail company, non-executive director between 2000 and 2007 when he joined Debenhams in 1997 and was of other UK public companies and past oversaw a successful sale of that business.
appointed to the board in 1999.
Before experience as a finance director, Dennis In addition to his current non-executive this, his senior roles in the Burton Group brings relevant and broad experience to roles, Nigel has also served as a nonincluded Managing Director of Principles his role as Senior Independent Director executive director of Aggreko plc and and Racing Green and Buying and and Chairman of the Remuneration Thomas Cook Group plc.
Merchandising Director of Topshop Committee.
External current directorships: External current directorships: Chairman of Paddy Power plc and External current directorships: Chairman of Halfords Group plc and a non-executive director of Inchcape plc.
Smiths News PLC and a non-executive director of Premier Farnell plc.
Simon Herrick ACA Mark Rolfe FCA Sophie Turner Laing Role: Chief Financial Officer since Role: Independent non-executive director Role: Independent non-executive director January 2012. since October 2010.
Mark is also chairman since August 2009 and a member of the of the Audit Committee and a member Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Key strengths: Simon has strong of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
financial experience gained in a range Committees.
of companies and business environments.
Key strengths: Sophies experience He previously held the role of Group Key strengths: Mark is a chartered in management and media issues Finance Director and Acting Chief accountant and has considerable financial is invaluable to a consumer facing Executive at Northern Foods plc and and accounting experience including business like Debenhams.
She is currently Finance Director of Kesa Electricals plc.
20 years spent with Gallaher Group plc Managing Director, Content, at British Sky in various finance and executive roles Broadcasting Group plc.
Prior to joining External current directorships: including that of Finance Director.
Sky in 2003, Sophie held senior roles None.
at the BBC and was a founder of HIT External current directorships: Entertainment.
Non-executive director of Barratt Developments plc, Hornby plc and External current directorships: The Sage Group plc.
He is also chairman Director of AETN UK and NGC Network of Lane, Clark & Peacock LLP.
In addition, Sophie is a trustee of BAFTA, The Media Trust and the National Film & TV School.
Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements 57 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Martina King Peter Fitzgerald Role: Independent non-executive director Role: Independent non-executive director since August 2009 and a member of the since October 2012 and a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Audit Committee.
Martina also chairs the Key strengths: Peters experience Sustainability Committee.
as a leading e-commerce executive is Key strengths: Martina has accumulated invaluable to Debenhams as we grow extensive experience in management and our multi-channel business.
He is Country marketing through holding a number of Sales Director for Google UK Eire having senior positions in marketing and online worked for that business since 2007.
From media including Managing Director of 1999 to 2007 Peter worked for Amazon Aurasma, Yahoo!
As both in Europe and the USA.
Chief Executive Officer of Featurespace External current directorships: Limited, Martina also has data None.
External current directorships: Non-executive director of Capita plc and Cineworld Group plc and Chief Executive Officer of Featurespace Limited.
Committee membership Remuneration Nomination Audit Sustainability Committee Committee Committee Committee Nigel Northridge Michael Sharp Simon Herrick Mark Rolfe Dennis Millard Stephen Ingham Martina King Role: Independent non-executive director Peter Fitzgerald since January 2013 and a member of the Sophie Turner Laing Remuneration Committee.
Stephen Ingham Key strengths: Stephen has been Chief Executive Officer of Michael Page Committee membership Committee chairman International plc since 2006 having worked for that business since 1987.
His experience Composition of the board Length of tenure of non-executive directors of building an international business at Michael Page supports our strategy to expand the Debenhams brand internationally.
External current directorships: Chief Executive Officer of Michael Page International plc.
Stephen is also a member of the Great Ormond Street Hospitals Corporate Partnership.
Executive 2 Less than one year 2 Non-executive 7 One to three years 1 Three to six years 3 More than six years 1
