Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 61 www.
com Stock code: DPH Letter from the Audit Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present Dechras Audit Committee Report for the year ended 30 June 2013.
Last year I advised that, following over nine years service with Dechra, I would be standing down as a Non-Executive of the Group at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and that the recruitment for a replacement Non-Executive Director, with recent and relevant financial experience, had commenced.
I am pleased to report that Julian Heslop was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and also a member of the Audit Committee in January 2013 and that Julian has accepted the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee upon my retirement in October 2013.
Julian Heslop brings to the Committee a wealth of experience gained from serving as Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline PLC between 2005 and 2011, having previously been appointed its Senior Vice President, Operations Controller between 2001 and 2005 and as Financial Controller of Glaxo Wellcome PLC between 1998 and 2000.
Since Julians appointment in January 2013, he and I have worked closely together on all Audit Committee matters so that he is aware of any key issues in relation to audit matters and also to ensure a smooth and orderly handover of duties prior to my retirement.
I am also pleased to welcome Ishbel Macpherson as a member of the Audit Committee.
Further details in respect of both Ishbel and Julian are provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
Last year you will recall that I reported that the Committee was in the process of defining the scope of an internal audit function with a view to commencing recruitment by the end of 2012.
Following the resignation of the Group Finance Director, Simon Evans, in October 2012 it was agreed that the recruitment process be placed on hold until the new Chief Financial Officer, Anne-Francoise Nesmes, had taken up her role with the Company.
Following Anne-Francoises appointment, and a number of discussions in relation to the potential remit of an internal audit function within Dechra, it has been decided that the best approach to take at the current time is to outsource the function for an interim period whilst consideration can be given to the longer term view of the remit and responsibilities of an internal audit function.
More details in relation to the tender process are provided within the following report.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Board of Dechra for their support during my tenure as both a Non-Executive of the Company and also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
I firmly believe that Julian Heslop is well suited to guiding the Audit Committee forward and I wish him well with this role.
As always, should you have any questions in relation to this report, please feel free to contact me or the Company Secretary.
Neil Warner Audit Committee Chairman 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 62 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Audit Committee Report Meetings eligible Member Independent to attend Meetings attended Neil Warner Yes 4 4 Dr Chris Richards Yes 4 3 Bryan Morton resigned 9 July 2012 Yes 1 0 Mike Redmond appointed 19 July 2012 resigned 21 February Yes 1 1 2012 Julian Heslop appointed 1 January 2013 Yes 2 2 Ishbel Macpherson appointed 1 February 2013 Yes 2 2 Secretary Zoe Goulding Following the resignation of Bryan Morton from the Board, Mike Redmond was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee until the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director.
Role and Responsibilities The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee the Committee are set out in the written terms of reference which are available on the Company website at www.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed on an annual basis and during the 2012 2013 financial year this took place at the February meeting.
Following this review no material changes to the terms of reference were made.
The main responsibilities of the Committee remain: to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, reviewing the annual and half-year reports in detail to ensure they present a balanced assessment of the Groups position and prospects which is understandable to Shareholders and potential investors: to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems as described on pages 58 to 59 and, in conjunction with the Auditor, consider the accounting policies adopted by the Group: to oversee the relationship with the Auditor.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Auditor, approves their remuneration and their terms of engagement, monitors their independence and objectivity, and sets the policy for non-audit work: to make recommendations to the Board on the requirement for an internal audit function: to review the arrangements for employees to raise concerns about wrongdoings, the Groups systems and controls for prevention of bribery and procedures for detecting, monitoring and managing risk of fraud.
In the performance of its duties the Committee has access to the services of the Auditor and is at liberty to obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
During the year, no legal or independent professional advice was sought.
The Auditor also has direct access to the Committee Chairman outside the formal Committee meetings.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 63 www.
com Stock code: DPH Membership, Meetings and Attendance The membership of the Committee and meeting attendance is stated on the previous page.
Following the resignation of Bryan Morton in July 2012, Mike Redmond was appointed as a temporary member of the Audit Committee to ensure adherence to the Committees terms of reference and in particular to ensure that Committee membership consisted of three Non-Executive Directors.
This appointment was terminated on 21 February 2013 following the appointment of Julian Heslop as a Non-Executive Director.
The Committee is pleased also to welcome Ishbel Macpherson as its most recent member.
The Board considers that the current Committee Chairman, Neil Warner, has recent and relevant financial experience as recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code as a result of his financial background.
He has held a number of financial positions throughout his career including most recently Finance Director of Chloride Group PLC a position he held from 1997 until the end of December 2010 and also as Chairman of the Audit Committee of Vectura Group plc to which he was appointed in February 2011.
Neil Warner will be standing down as a Non-Executive Director of the Company and as the Chairman of the Audit Committee at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It is intended that Julian Heslop will replace Neil as the Committee Chairman.
As detailed in the Chairmans Letter on page 61, Julian worked for GlaxoSmithKline from 1998, latterly as its Chief Financial Officer from 2005 to 2011.
It is therefore considered that Julian Heslop also has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience as required under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the members financial and accounting experience are contained in the biographical details of the Board of Directors on pages 48 to 49.
The Auditor attends meetings of the Committee other than when their appointment or performance is being reviewed.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and other senior finance staff attend as and when appropriate.
The Committee has discussions at least once a year with the Auditor without management being present: during the financial year this took place at the end of the August meeting.
Furthermore, during the year the Committee Chairman meets informally and has access to the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the senior audit engagement team.
This group generally meets before the Committee meetings that consider the annual and half-yearly results.
Neither the Company nor its Directors have any relationships that impair the Auditors independence.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 64 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Audit Committee Report continued Activities during 2012 2013 The Committee met four times during the 2012 2013 financial year, timed to coincide with the financial reporting timetable of the Company.
The table below sets out a number of the matters which were discussed and where necessary approved at the four meetings: Meeting Matters discussed approved at the meeting July 2012 Review of the requirement for internal audit function Non-audit fee update IFS review update Audit strategy for the year ended 30 June 2012 including timetable, scope and fees Auditor independence Company expectations of the audit August 2012 Auditors Report on the 2011 2012 financial results Draft preliminary statement Draft Annual Report External audit effectiveness Audit Committee effectiveness review Auditor independence confirmation Non-audit fee update Going concern confirmation Internal controls Proposed final dividend Auditor representation letter Internal audit function February 2013 Auditors report on half-yearly results Draft half-yearly report and announcement Terms of reference Interim dividend Going concern confirmation Senior Accounting Officer requirement Auditor representation letter Non-audit fee update May 2013 Internal audit function Non-audit fee update IFS review update Audit strategy for the year ended 30 June 2013 including timetable, scope and fees Auditor independence Company expectations of the audit Senior Accounting Officer Meeting postponed from May 2012 due to the Eurovet acquisition.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 65 www.
com Stock code: DPH Internal Control and Internal Audit Function The Board retains overall responsibility for establishing the systems of internal control and monitoring their ongoing effectiveness and also for the identification and management of risk.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control activities and further detail in respect of the internal controls are provided within the Corporate Governance Section on pages 58 to 59.
As reported in the 2012 Annual Report, in light of the Eurovet acquisition it was agreed that the Group was now of sufficient size to warrant an internal audit function.
The Committee discussed the role specification at the August meeting.
Following the resignation of the Group Finance Director, Simon Evans, in October 2012 it was agreed that the recruitment process be placed on hold until the new Chief Financial Officer, Anne-Francoise Nesmes, had taken up her role within the Company.
Following Anne-Francoises appointment, discussions in relation to the role took place between the Committee Chairman and Chief Financial Officer and it was decided that the best approach to take in the current circumstances was to outsource the function for the short term so that a longer term view could be taken on the remit and responsibilities of an internal audit function.
Tender invitations have been forwarded to a number of accountancy firms excluding the Auditor, KPMG for an enterprise risk management and internal support control function.
Proposals are expected back by 27 September 2013 with presentations to be held midOctober.
The timeframe will therefore allow the project to be initiated at the beginning of January 2014.
It is anticipated that this ongoing support will continue for between 12 and 18 months until a firm decision can be made regarding insourcing compared to outsourcing in relation to the function.
Auditor Audit Engagement Director Rotation In line with the ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board the Group Audit Engagement Director is rotated every five years.
The current Group Audit Engagement Director was appointed during the 2010 2011 financial year.
The next rotation is scheduled to take place during 2015 2016.
Independence The Auditor annually confirms their policies on ensuring audit independence and provides the Committee with a report on their own audit and quality procedures.
This report was reviewed during the audit strategy meeting held in May 2013 and the Committee remain satisfied of the Auditors independence.
Effectiveness The performance of the Auditor is reviewed annually by the Committee at the end of the annual audit cycle taking into account feedback from financial directors and managers of the Group involved in the audit process, together with a review of the level of service provided by the Auditor to the Group.
The Committee are satisfied with the current Auditors effectiveness.
Audit Firm Tendering The Committee are aware of the recommendations in the FRC UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to the expectation of the external audit being put out to tender every ten years.
KPMG Audit Plc has been appointed as the Auditor since the Companys formation in 1997 and their performance has been reviewed annually by the Committee since that time.
The Committee has remained consistently satisfied with the level of independence of the Auditor and the integrity of the audit process.
However, given the recent changes in best practice the Committee has considered whether an audit firm tender should be undertaken during the 2013 2014 financial year.
Given the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer in April 2013 the Committee believes that it would not be in the best interests of the audit process or indeed in respect of risk management to undertake a tender so soon after this appointment.
The Committee does, however, intend to undertake a tender process and will seek to align this with the rotation of the Audit Director Engagement scheduled for 2015 2016.
The timing of this would therefore allow the successful audit firm not disallowing for the fact that this could be the incumbent firm to take up its appointment when the current Audit Director stands down.
Re-appointment of Auditor In the light of organisational changes within KPMG, the Directors have agreed that KPMG Audit Plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of KPMG LLP, will step down as Auditor at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and that a resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as Auditor and to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees capacity to recommend a particular firm as Auditor.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 66 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Audit Committee Report continued Non-Audit Assignments With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by the Auditor, the Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
Safeguards are in place to ensure continued audit independence including utilising separate teams to undertake the audit and non-audit work.
When considering the use of the Auditor to undertake non-audit assignments, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer do at all times give consideration to the provisions of the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the preservation of independence.
To assist the Auditors independence Deloitte LLP was appointed in 2012 to undertake tax and compliance work in substitution for the Auditor.
Audit Fee Review The fee proposals for the external audit and half-yearly results were considered and agreed in the May 2013 meeting.
Non-Audit Fees The policy in respect of non-audit fees was reviewed and amended during the year ended 30 June 2009, whereby it was agreed that the non-audit fee be capped at 50% of the audit fee.
Prior approval of the Committee is required should non-audit fees exceed the cap and an explanation of the reasons for exceeding the limit is provided to the Committee, who assess the qualification, expertise, independence and objectivity of the Auditor prior to granting approval.
The Committee firmly believes that there are certain non-audit services where it is appropriate for the Group to engage the Auditor.
During the year, the Auditor was commissioned to carry out working capital and reporting accountant work in respect of the disposal of the Services Segment.
The Auditor was considered the most cost effective and appropriate firm to perform this work given both their knowledge of the existing business and the requirement to report on the existing as well as the reduced Group.
The Committee did not consider that the performance of this non-audit work would affect or impair the Auditors integrity.
This is consistent with the ethical standard recommended by the Accounting Practices Board.
A summary of audit and non-audit fees in relation to the year is provided in note 6 to the Groups financial statements.
This shows that non-audit work represented 135% of the annual audit fee and, in line with the above stated policy, reflects the Committees prior approval of the fees paid to the Auditor in respect of the disposal of the Services Segment.
Excluding the costs relating to the disposal, non-audit work represented 39% of the annual audit fee.
Committee Effectiveness Review During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness as a part of the overall Board evaluation process.
The Committee considered that it acted transparently and given the number of Committee and Board meetings scheduled throughout the financial year, maintained a thorough understanding of the Group and its business.
The Committee also considered it had the skills to perform its responsibilities.
The results of the review were advised to the Board.
Neil Warner Audit Committee Chairman 3 September 2013 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3
