50 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Letter from the Chairman on Governance Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present Dechras Corporate Governance report for the year ended 30 June 2013.
The 2012 2013 financial year has seen a number of changes to the Board from both an Executive and Non-Executive perspective.
In terms of Executive Director changes, Simon Evans tendered his resignation as Group Finance Director after 15 years service with the Company.
During his tenure on the Board, Dechra developed from a UK based veterinary wholesale company into an international veterinary pharmaceuticals business.
I would like to thank Simon for his significant contribution to the growth of Dechra and wish him well in his future.
Following Simons resignation, JCA Group were retained to commence the search for a high calibre finance professional who could work alongside the Chief Executive Officer to continue to develop and progress the Group strategy.
I was delighted that in April Anne-Francoise Nesmes agreed to join Dechra as its Chief Financial Officer.
Anne-Francoise has an impressive financial career, the majority of which has been spent with GlaxoSmithKline during a 15 year period.
I am sure that her experience and financial acumen will be invaluable to Dechra.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Paul Sandland, the Group Financial Controller, who in the interim period between Simons resignation and Anne-Francoises appointment, fulfilled the role of acting Group Finance Director with professionalism and commitment.
I am also pleased to report the appointment of Tony Griffin as an Executive Director in November 2012.
Following the Eurovet acquisition in spring 2012, the Board identified the requirement for additional resource at Executive Director level and considered that Tony provided the relevant experience to assist in the development and implementation of the Group strategy, particularly given his extensive career in the veterinary pharmaceuticals industry.
In terms of new Non-Executive Director appointments, I am pleased to welcome both Julian Heslop and Ishbel Macpherson to Dechra.
Each of whom has a wealth of relevant experience, which will bring valuable insight to the Board as we take Dechra forward into its next stage as a pure play veterinary pharmaceuticals business.
I would like to express my gratitude to Neil Warner who, after over ten years as a Non-Executive Director of Dechra, has expressed his intention to stand down at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Over the years Neil has provided a valuable contribution as both a Board member and Chairman of the Audit Committee, in particular in terms of finance, risk and governance.
On behalf of the Board I wish him well in his future.
The Board is currently undertaking its 2012 2013 evaluation.
Following a discussion as to process it has been agreed that an internal evaluation will be held this year but the Board will seek to carry out an external evaluation for 2013 2014.
Details of the findings and action points arising from the 2011 2012 evaluation are detailed in the report.
Following the move to our new head office in Northwich, Cheshire it has been decided to hold this years Annual General Meeting at the new premises.
This Meeting provides Shareholders with the opportunity to meet with the Board on an informal basis and I hope that you will be able to attend.
Finally, should you have any questions in relation to the report, please feel free to contact myself or the Company Secretary.
Michael Redmond Non-Executive Chairman 3 September 2013 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 51 www.
com Stock code: DPH Corporate Governance Directors Report: Corporate Governance The Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code establishes the principles of good governance for companies: the following report describes how the Company has applied these principles to its activities.
The Board remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and continually strives to do so.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has complied with the Code throughout the period under review except in respect of the composition of the Audit Committee.
On Bryan Mortons resignation in July 2012, Michael Redmond, Chairman of the Board, was appointed to the Audit Committee in order to maintain the required number of members in line with the Audit Committee Terms of Reference.
Michael Redmond stood down as a member of the Audit Committee on 21 February 2013 upon the appointment of Julian Heslop and Ishbel Macpherson.
Leadership The Board The Board is led by the Chairman Michael Redmond and comprises four Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The biographical details of the Board of Directors are shown on pages 48 and 49.
The Chairman The primary role of the Chairman is to: ensure the effectiveness of the Board in all aspects of its role: facilitate the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors, ensuring that all decisions are subject to constructive debate and supported by sound decision making processes: and lead the Board in the determination of its strategy and the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman has a strong working relationship with Ian Page, the Chief Executive Officer, and works closely with him to ensure that Board decisions and strategy are implemented throughout the Group.
There is a clear division of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
These have been defined in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman, at the time of his appointment, did meet and continues to meet the independence criteria defined within the Code.
As reported in the previous Annual Report, Dechras top ten Shareholders were consulted in August 2012 with regard to the tenure of the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, each having held their respective positions for in excess of nine years.
It was agreed with the Shareholders that it was deemed to be in the best interests of the Company and its stakeholders that the Chairman should remain in position for a further three years in order to oversee the induction and development of the new Non-Executive and Executive Directors to the Board.
The Nomination Committee considers that Michael Redmond continues to lead the Board effectively, maintaining his independence and integrity at all times.
He provides an invaluable contribution and insight to the Board by reason of both his previous pharmaceutical experience and the longevity of his association with the Company.
Therefore as agreed with the Shareholders, the Chairmans tenure will be reviewed prior to the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors Throughout the year the Non-Executive Directors have provided a solid, independent element to the Board ensuring that decisions are constructively challenged and debated.
During the year an independent recruitment consultant, JCA Group, was retained to assist in the recruitment of two new Non-Executive Directors.
At the commencement of the recruitment process an objective role description was defined and agreed by the Nomination Committee detailing the skills and experience required for the Board positions.
As a result, on 1 January 2013 and 1 February 2013, Julian Heslop and Ishbel Macpherson, respectively, were appointed to the Board and also as members of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
It is intended that Julian will be appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee upon Neil Warners retirement at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and further detail of this is provided in the Audit Committee Report on pages 61 to 66.
It is considered that each of the newly appointed Non-Executive Directors brings with them a breadth of experience which will add value to the decision making of the Board and the formulation and progression of the Group strategy.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 52 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Corporate Governance continued Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director is available to Shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director also carries out the annual evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and chairs the Nomination Committee when it is considering the succession of that role.
Neil Warner has held the position of Senior Independent Director since 5 November 2010, having been appointed as a Non-Executive Director with the Company on 2 May 2003.
Following Neils retirement from the Board at the 2013 Annual General Meeting it has been agreed that Ishbel Macpherson will be appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer has day-to-day responsibility for the management of the Group.
He develops the Group strategy and, once approved by the Board, implements this throughout the business.
Ian Page is also the Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford DeLand Asset Management Limited Sanford.
The Board fully considered at the time of his appointment whether this would materially impact on his current time commitment as Chief Executive Officer and whether it could give rise to any conflict.
As Ian Page is not involved in any investment decision made by Sanford it was not considered that any conflict would arise nor would there be any impact on his time commitment.
Further details in relation to the appointment can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 83.
Chief Financial Officer The Chief Financial Officer has day-to-day responsibility for financial planning and reporting for the Group.
She is also responsible for managing the financial risks and works with the Chief Executive Officer on all strategic matters.
As well as assisting in the recruitment of two new Non-Executive Directors during the year, JCA Group was engaged in relation to the appointment of the Chief Financial Officer following the resignation of Simon Evans.
Following a rigorous recruitment process, Anne-Francoise Nesmes was appointed to the Board in April 2013.
Anne-Francoise is a high calibre finance professional who has valuable international, pharmaceutical, manufacturing and commercial experience gained during her extensive tenure with GlaxoSmithKline PLC over a 15 year period.
Company Secretary Zoe Goulding was appointed as Company Secretary on 2 July 2007 and acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
The primary role of the Company Secretary is to advise the Board on matters of procedure and governance, ensuring that all required information is made available to the Board on a timely basis.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Corporate Governance Framework The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company, ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and achieves its strategic objectives.
The Board fulfils this responsibility by monitoring the performance of the Group, inter alia, by: assisting, in a challenging and constructive manner, the Executive Directors in the setting of objectives for Group operating performance, financial goals and strategic progress: evaluating the progress of the achievement of the objectives and plans: and monitoring all significant risks which face the Group.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 53 www.
com Stock code: DPH There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
The schedule of matters covers a number of areas, including the following: Strategy and Management Approval and monitoring of long term objectives and strategy Approval of the Groups operating and capital expenditure budgets Major organisational changes Regular reviews of business performance Financial Reporting Approval of the Annual Report and dividend policy Approval of development expenditure Approval of treasury policy Internal Controls Review and approval of internal controls and risk management policies and processes Corporate Governance Board and Committee composition including succession planning Corporate Governance matters Approval of policies such as Health and Safety and the Business Code of Conduct In addition, the Board also focuses on the financial controls operated by the Executive Directors with a view to ensuring that these are at the requisite levels so as not to hinder day-to-day administration of the business, but to ensure adequate internal control.
Below Board level, operational and financial controls are contained in the delegated authorities document.
This document is reviewed on an annual basis along with the schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
Where necessary these documents are updated in line with best practice with a view to ensuring that the processes remain robust.
Board Meetings The Board is scheduled to meet nine times per year.
During the year two additional meetings were required to discuss the disposal of the Services Segment.
Attendance at the Board and Nomination Committee meetings during the year to 30 June 2013 was as follows details of attendance at the Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings are provided on pages 62 and 68 respectively : Board Nomination Name 11 Meetings 4 Meetings Mike Redmond 11 11 4 4 Julian Heslop appointed 1 January 2013 7 7 1 1 Ishbel Macpherson appointed 1 February 2013 6 6 0 0 Dr Chris Richards 11 11 4 4 Neil Warner 9 11 4 4 Bryan Morton resigned 9 July 2012 0 1 0 0 Ian Page 11 11 n a Simon Evans resigned 18 October 2012 2 2 n a Tony Griffin appointed 1 November 2012 8 8 n a Anne-Francoise Nesmes appointed 22 April 2013 3 3 n a Ed Torr 10 11 n a Note: n a denotes that the Director is not a member of this committee, but may attend by invitation.
Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of appointment.
Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of retirement.
It is understood that there may be situations, either due to prior commitments or circumstances beyond their control, which mean a Director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting.
In this situation the Board pack is still provided allowing the Director to raise any queries or discussion points either through the Chairman or Company Secretary, thereby allowing their views to be fully discussed at the meeting.
Following the meeting any Director who was unable to attend is provided with the opportunity to discuss the meeting with either the Chairman, Company Secretary or any Executive Director.
The Company Secretary ensures that an accurate record of each Board meeting is made which is circulated to the Board as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Should Directors have concerns of any nature which cannot be resolved within the Board meeting, they have the right to ensure their view is recorded in the minutes.
On resignation, should a Non-Executive Director have any concerns, they have a right to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 54 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Corporate Governance continued The Board believes in the necessity for challenge and debate at Board meetings and considers that the existing Board dynamics and processes encourage honest and open debate with the Executive Directors.
The Board believes that the decision making process is inclusive and is not dominated by any individual or group of individuals.
Board Meeting Agenda and Papers The Directors are supplied in a timely manner with all relevant documentation and financial information to assist them in the discharge of their duties.
Prior to all Board meetings an agenda and supporting documentation is circulated to the Board.
Every meeting agenda comprises reports from the following individuals: Chief Executive Officer: Chief Financial Officer: Managing Director and Finance Director of each Business Unit: Group HR Director: and Product Development and Regulatory Affairs Director.
In addition, twice a year the Board receives detailed health, safety and environmental reviews encompassing all operating segments, plus the activities of the Transport Risk and Sustainability Committees.
Three times a year the Board receives a full risk assessment review for discussion, following detailed risk reviews within each of the business units.
Other ad hoc material relating to specific projects, legal, company secretarial and regulatory matters are included as necessary.
The reports ensure that the Board is updated on all major items of strategic planning, business performance, personnel, investments and significant policy issues.
This allows the Board to monitor the progress of the business and provides transparency across all areas within the Group.
Each year an annual strategic agenda is drawn up and approved by the Board.
This enables the Board to focus on and discuss key strategic areas on a regular basis.
Additionally, every six months, a comprehensive review of the Group strategy is carried out.
This agenda provides the Board with an opportunity to speak with the senior managers on a one to one basis and gain a more in-depth understanding of their area of responsibility.
During the year the following business presentations have been made: Date of Meeting Presentation Subject Delivered by August 2012 Group IT Strategy Allen Mellor Group IT Director December 2012 DVP US update Mike Eldred President, DVP US January 2013 Oracle implementation Allen Mellor Group IT Director April 2013 Product Development and lifecycle Susan Longhofer Group Director, Product management review of key development Development and Regulatory Affairs and projects and an outline of exploratory projects Rob Joosten Product Development and Regulatory Affairs May 2013 Manufacturing and Sourcing Mike Annice Managing Director of Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors generally meet before each Board meeting which allows them time to review and discuss any matters arising from the agenda without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chairman also meets regularly with the Chief Executive Officer outside of the scheduled Board meetings.
The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees, in particular the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The terms of reference for each of these Committees are available on the Companys website or on request from the Company Secretary.
The Board also appoints Committees on an ad hoc basis to approve specific projects as deemed necessary.
During the year the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have attended the Board meetings of the businesses which make up the operating segments in relation to the US these meetings are generally held by video conference.
The meetings are chaired by the Chief Executive Officer allowing him and the Chief Financial Officer the opportunity to obtain detailed information on the businesses strategic, operational and financial progress including any issues potentially preventing the achievement of their targets.
Key operational information obtained from these meetings is then reported back to the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer has also chaired a number of product development meetings during the year.
Representatives from the finance, marketing and manufacturing departments also attend these meetings thereby allowing the product pipeline to be comprehensively reviewed.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 55 www.
com Stock code: DPH Following the disposal of the Services Segment a review of the operational Board meetings has taken place and it has been agreed that six meetings a year will be held for DVP EU, DVP US, Manufacturing and Product Development.
Furthermore, four Executive Board meetings have been scheduled.
It is the intention that these meetings will be attended by the four Executive Directors, the Managing Directors of the operating businesses along with the IT and HR Directors.
The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance in respect of legal action against Directors.
Effectiveness Board Balance and Independence The Board recognises and understands the importance of balance and refreshment in terms of its composition.
The following changes have taken place at Board level over the past 12 months: the appointment of Tony Griffin Managing Director of DVP EU as an Executive Director on 1 November 2012: the appointment of Julian Heslop Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2013: the appointment of Ishbel Macpherson Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2013: the appointment of Anne-Francoise Nesmes as Chief Financial Officer on 22 April 2013: the resignation of Bryan Morton Non-Executive Director on 9 July 2012: and the resignation of Simon Evans as Group Finance Director on 18 October 2012.
As previously stated, Neil Warner will retire as a Non-Executive Director at the 2013 Annual General Meeting having held a position on the Board for over ten years.
As agreed with the major Shareholders the Chairmans position will be reviewed prior to the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The Board considers that all the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and free of any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with, or compromise, their ability to exercise independent judgement.
This independence of mind provides them with the ability to challenge decisions and think strategically and is integral to the decision making processes of the Board.
Diversity The Board understands the importance of having a diverse membership and recognises that diversity encompasses not only gender but also background and experience.
However, the Board does not have a formal diversity policy and is generally opposed to the idea of stated quotas for females.
The Board believes that appointments should be made solely on merit, the key criterion being whether or not the appointee can add to or complement the existing range of skills and experience on the Board.
Notably, of the recent Board appointments, two out of the three have been female.
Both of these appointments were made on merit, and not on gender.
Both appointees were by far the strongest candidates for the positions and their skill set and overall experience fitted the objective role description approved by the Board at the outset of the recruitment process.
In terms of female representation across the Group: 22% of Board members 2012: nil : 25.0% 2012: 25.0% of the senior management team: and 42% 2012: 44.8% of the overall workforce are females.
Diversity in the Board and Beyond Board Members Senior Employees Male Female Management Male Female a Staff a Male Female a a Female 22% a a Female 25% Female 42% b b Male 78% b Male 75% b Male 58% b b 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 56 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Corporate Governance continued Conflicts of Interest Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 all Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest with the Company.
The Articles of Association of the Company enable the Directors to authorise any actual or potential conflict of interest which could arise.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision: secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will also be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they deem this to be appropriate.
During the financial year under review no actual or potential conflicts have arisen.
Information and Professional Development Detail in respect of the information provided to the Board prior to each meeting is provided earlier in this report.
In order to ensure that the Board maintains its knowledge and familiarity with the Groups operations it is intended that at least one Board meeting per year is held at one of the Groups operational sites.
During the year a Board meeting was held at Dechra Manufacturing, Skipton, and the main Eurovet facility Bladel in the Netherlands.
The Board had an opportunity to be shown around both of these manufacturing facilities and meet with employees.
Any newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive documentation aimed at providing information in relation to the remit and obligations of the role, current areas under consideration for the Board and the latest broker reports.
New Directors are also offered the opportunity to visit the various business units in order to allow them to meet with the executive teams and to be shown around the operations.
All of the new Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors appointed during the year visited the facilities at both Skipton and Stoke-on-Trent prior to their respective appointments.
Meetings were also arranged with the Product Development and Regulatory Affairs Directors, the HR Director and the Managing Director and Quality Director of Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing.
The Company Secretary and Chairman are aware of the ongoing requirement to review and agree with each Director their training needs.
In order to assist with these training requirements the Company Secretary provides briefings for the Directors, where necessary, that cover a number of legal and regulatory changes and developments relevant to the Directors areas of responsibility.
During the year these briefings included an update on the revised draft Directors Remuneration Report Regulations and the new strategic report proposals.
In addition, the Company Secretary informs the Directors of any external training courses which may be of relevance.
It is currently considered that the mixture of internal briefings and external training courses satisfies the Directors training needs: however, this will be reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Each Director is entitled on request to receive information to enable him or her to make informed judgements in order to adequately discharge their duties.
In addition, all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and senior managers, and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties.
Nomination Committee The Board has an established Nomination Committee to lead the process for Board appointments and to make recommendations to the Board.
During the period the Nomination Committee comprised Michael Redmond Chairman, Julian Heslop appointed 1 January 2013, Ishbel Macpherson appointed 1 February 2013, Dr Chris Richards and Neil Warner.
The Chairman will not chair the Committee meeting if it is dealing with the appointment of his successor.
Details of the work carried out by the Nomination Committee during the financial year have already been detailed in this report.
The Nomination Committee normally meets once a year.
During the financial year under review three additional Nomination Committee meetings were held in order to discuss and recommend the various Board appointments.
The terms of reference set out the Nomination Committees role and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
The terms of reference have been reviewed during the year: a copy is available on the Company website at www.
The terms of reference include the following responsibilities: to oversee the plans for management succession: to recommend appointments to the Board: to evaluate the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors: and to consider the structure, size and composition of the Board generally.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 57 www.
com Stock code: DPH Other significant commitments of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors were disclosed to the Board before appointment, the Board is notified of any subsequent changes.
The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Both the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the service contracts of the Executive Directors will be on display at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Board Evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees.
The 2011 2012 Board evaluation: The evaluation process was reviewed in detail by the Chairman and the Company Secretary and discussed with the Board.
It was agreed that, given the number of changes to the Board during the review period, an internal rather than external evaluation would be the most beneficial to the Company.
A detailed discussion document was then circulated to the Board covering the following areas: i Board composition: ii strategy review process: iii the format of Board meetings and the decision process: iv training and development: v the performance of the Board and the individual Directors: vi Corporate Governance: vii leadership and culture: and viii risk assessment.
One to one meetings were then held by the Chairman with each of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and Company Secretary.
The evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director.
The findings of the internal evaluation were then discussed with the Board in August 2012.
Overall it was noted that no new issues of material significance had been raised during the review, rather input revolved around progress of the previous years action points.
The main action points were as follows: Action Progress Board succession planning discussion and Two new Non-Executive Directors have been appointed during the course implementation of the year.
Furthermore, an additional Executive Director position was created by the appointment of Tony Griffin to the Board Review of Board pack content and Board meeting Following the October 2012 strategy meeting the Board agenda was discussion reviewed in order to increase focus on strategic matters.
This was assisted by an updated programme of strategic matters for review during the year Further development of the Group KPIs This has not progressed to date but a review is now necessary given the recent disposal of the Services Segment Post-acquisition reviews after 12 months This has been tabled into the rolling agenda for the PLC Board Meetings The 2012 2013 Board evaluation A discussion took place at the February 2013 Board meeting as to whether or not an external evaluation should be commenced during the 2012 2013 financial year given the Companys move in June 2012 to the FTSE 250.
It was agreed that given the changes to the Board as detailed above an internal evaluation would again be carried out.
However, an external evaluation will be undertaken during the 2013 2014 financial year.
The results of the 2012 2013 evaluation will be reported in next years Report and Accounts.
Re-election On appointment, Directors are required to seek election at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Julian Heslop, Ishbel Macpherson, Tony Griffin and Anne-Francoise Nesmes, who were all appointed during the financial year, will offer themselves for election.
All of the remaining Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election, excluding Neil Warner.
Each of the Directors standing for re-election has been subject to a formal evaluation.
Each of the Directors continues to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment, not only in respect of their roles and responsibilities, but also in relation to the Group and its stakeholders.
The Board therefore recommends that Shareholders vote in favour of their respective elections and re-elections.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 58 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Corporate Governance continued Accountability Financial Reporting The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects, through the Chairmans Statement and the Directors Report.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in connection with the Financial Statements are explained in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Independent Auditors Report on pages 94, and 96 to 97 respectively.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report and Operating Review on pages 3 to 45.
The principal risks that may affect the Groups future performance are set out on pages 46 and 47.
During the year being reported, trading has continued to be robust with an improvement in profitability being achieved.
Prior to the acquisition of Eurovet, the Group entered into a facilities agreement on 4 April 2012 the Facility Agreement with a syndicate of banks comprising Lloyds TSB Bank plc, Barclays Bank PLC, Svenska Handelsbanken AB PUBL and HSBC Bank plc the Banks under which a facility of 120 million was made available.
The Facility Agreement included: a 55.0 million, 4 year amortising term loan, repayable in eight instalments on 31 March and 30 September each year of 5.0 million per instalment, rising to 7.5 million per instalment from and including 30 September 2015 with a final instalment of 7.5 million on 31 October 2016.
The first repayment was paid on 31 March 2013: and a 65.0 million 4 year revolving credit facility committed until 31 October 2016.
The net proceeds from the disposal of the Services Segment to Patterson Companies, Inc. in August 2013 will be used to reduce the Groups debt through the prepayment and cancellation of the Groups existing 50.0 million term loan facility and the reduction in amounts drawn under the Groups existing 65.0 million revolving credit facility.
This revolving credit facility will be retained on an ongoing basis to fund the development of the business.
The Group also had cash balances of 32.8 million at 30 June 2013.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these annual financial statements.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Directors are responsible for maintaining the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness from a financial, operational and compliance perspective.
The system of internal control aims to safeguard the Companys assets, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements and ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of operations including the assessment and management of risk.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has an established, ongoing and embedded framework of internal financial and operational control for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group.
Every four months the Board carries out a review of relevant risk areas and systems of internal control.
The review is structured by business area and key risk strategy and is based upon a summary of information prepared and reviewed by the business units executive teams on an ongoing basis.
This framework has been in place throughout the year under review, and has continued up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The risk management process was last reviewed in 2009 and it has been agreed that the process will once again undergo a review during 2013 2014.
The Board has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the internal controls for the year ended 30 June 2013.
Further detail in respect of the risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the mitigating action being taken can be found on pages 46 and 47.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 59 www.
com Stock code: DPH The Groups key systems of control include: Management Structure The Group is organised into operating segments within which there are a number of business units.
Each business unit has its own Managing Director and executive team: there are clear reporting lines and delegated authorities in place.
Key functions such as tax, treasury, insurance, legal and personnel are controlled centrally.
Management Accounting Processes The finance function has implemented a detailed management accounting process which is in operation and allows the Board and management transparency in terms of financial and operational performance, measured against key performance indicators set at both business unit and Group level.
Detailed management accounts are prepared on a monthly basis covering all areas of the business: these are reviewed by the relevant business units at their management meetings and by the Board on a monthly basis, thereby allowing any material variances to be discussed and any necessary action taken on a timely basis.
Detailed forecasts are prepared and discussed in detail on a quarterly basis: these are then escalated to the Board for consideration and approval.
The finance function maintain a financial policies manual which covers central and divisional management.
The manual is reviewed at least annually and is also updated whenever reporting standards, legislation or internal commercial reasons dictate.
Any changes to the policies are communicated throughout the Groups finance function.
The finance function schedules two annual internal conferences at which a technical update, tailored specifically to the Groups commercial needs, is presented by the Auditor.
During the 2012 2013 financial year this conference took place in November and April, the former meeting concentrated on the Senior Accounting Officer obligations and the latter provided an opportunity for the Chief Financial Officer to meet her team to discuss future strategy.
Business unit management certify on a quarterly basis that key financial controls have been performed and that significant risks have been identified.
Business Plans Business plans provide a framework from which annual budgets and forecasts are agreed with each business unit, including financial and strategic targets against which business performance is monitored.
The plans are reviewed by executive management, and then by the Board for ultimate approval.
Actual performance during the financial year is monitored monthly against budget, forecast and previous year.
Investment Approval The Group has clear requirements for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board.
Capital expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels determined by the Board.
Development Expenditure The Group has a transparent and established process for evaluating and monitoring the level of development expenditure incurred.
As with all other business units the Product Development and Regulatory team agrees an annual budget which receives approval from the Board: performance against this is monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Product Development and Regulatory team re-evaluates all projects at least twice a year and reports all material decisions and changes to the Board.
When evaluating projects a number of measurement criteria are considered, including the products net present value and return on investment.
Whistle-blowing and Business Ethics Policy The Company has a whistle-blowing policy in place which establishes a confidential channel of communication for employees to bring matters of concern about the running of the business to the attention of senior management.
Upon being notified of such a concern, the policy sets out a defined process which allows a full investigation to take place and, where necessary, corrective action to be taken.
The Audit Committee reviews the whistle-blowing policy on an annual basis.
The Business Ethics Policy is currently undergoing a review and it is intended that an updated policy is rolled out across the Group during 2013 2014.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 60 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee and Auditors Information relating to the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 61 to 66.
This details the Companys compliance with the Codes requirements in respect of audit matters.
Responsibility for monitoring the Groups system of internal control rests with the Board.
It is assisted by the Audit Committee, which reviews the Half-Yearly and Annual Reports provided to Shareholders, the audit process, the systems of internal control and risk management.
The Auditor is engaged to express an opinion of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
They independently and objectively review managements reporting of the Groups consolidated results and financial position.
In addition, they review the systems of internal control and the data contained in the Annual Report and Accounts to the level necessary for expressing their audit opinion.
Remuneration Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report at pages 67 to 83.
This report details the Companys compliance with the Codes requirements with regard to remuneration matters.
Relations with Shareholders Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Relationships with Shareholders receive high priority and a rolling programme of meetings between Institutional Shareholders and Executive Directors are held throughout the year.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer give annual and half-yearly results presentations to Institutional Investors, analysts and media, which are also available via telephone conference.
These meetings are in addition to the Annual General Meeting and seek to foster mutual understanding of the Companys and Shareholders objectives.
Such meetings are conducted in a format to protect price sensitive information that has not already been made generally available to the Companys Shareholders.
Similar guidelines also apply to communications between the Company and other parties such as financial analysts, brokers and media.
The Company also organises site visits on a periodic basis.
Tony Griffin and Anne-Francoise Nesmes separately attended a number of the Institutional Shareholder meetings held in September 2012 and February 2013 respectively, post the announcement of the full and half yearly results.
This provided a number of Dechras major Shareholders with the chance to meet Tony Griffin and Anne-Francoise Nesmes before the commencement of their appointment as Executive Directors.
Feedback is collated by the Companys Brokers after investor presentations.
The feedback is then circulated to the Board for review and consideration.
In addition, the Board is provided with a monthly market summary report which reports on share price and share register movements.
Where material changes in respect of remuneration or governance are proposed the Board seeks to consult with its major Shareholders before implementing such changes.
The annual and half-yearly results presentations are available to private investors via the Companys website.
The Company views the website as an important investor relations tool, and updates the website in line with best practice, ensuring that information relating to the Company and its activities is easily accessible.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting All members of the Board are scheduled to attend the Annual General Meeting and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer Shareholders questions both during the meeting and afterwards.
Notice of the meeting, together with the Annual Report and Accounts, is posted to Shareholders not less than 20 working days prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The information sent to Shareholders includes a summary of the business to be covered at the Annual General Meeting, where a separate resolution is prepared for each substantive matter.
When a vote is taken on a show of hands, the level of proxies received for and against the resolution and any abstentions are disclosed at the meeting: this information will be made available as soon as practicable after the meeting on the Company website at www.
The Notice of Meeting and an announcement relating to the total number of shares in respect of which Shareholders are entitled to exercise voting rights are made available on the Companys website the day after the notice of meeting is posted to Shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting there will be an opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communications between Shareholders and Directors.
