I 2 3 4 Report of Directors CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT An Introduction by Steve Hannam, Chairman From 1 January 2013 until 31 December 2013, the company applied the 2012 edition of the UK THE LEADERSHIP AND Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Board composition ARE PRIMARILY THE CHAIRMANS Mr S J Hannam, Chairman, Mr P W B Page, Chief Executive, Mr S C Webb, Group Finance Director, RESPONSIBILITY.
Ms J A Lodge, Non-Executive Director, Mr P A J Neep, Non-Executive Director, and Mr P N Withers, Non-Executive Director, served as directors WE RECOGNISE THE IMPORTANCE OF, AND ARE throughout 2013.
Mr G J Hoetmer joined the Board COMMITTED TO, HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE as a Non-Executive Director on 30 July 2013.
GOVERNANCE, ALIGNED WITH THE NEEDS OF The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be THE COMPANY AND THE INTERESTS OF ALL OUR independent directors.
This opinion is based primarily on careful consideration of their character STAKEHOLDERS.
MY FELLOW DIRECTORS AND and judgement and their contribution to the work I FULLY APPRECIATE THE IMPORTANCE OF SOUND of the Board and its committees.
None holds any GOVERNANCE IN THE EFFICIENT RUNNING OF external position which would impinge upon his or her independence or objectivity, nor are there THE COMPANY, AND IN PARTICULAR TO THE any relationships or circumstances such as are EFFECTIVENESS AND INDEPENDENCE OF THE envisaged by Provision B.
1.1 of the Code, other than as set out in the following paragraph.
BOARD AND THE MANAGEMENT OF RISKS FACED BY THE GROUP.
Mr P A J Neep has held the position of Senior Independent Director since October 2005.
The Board recognises in terms of Provision B.
2.3 of the THE FOLLOWING REPORT SETS OUT HOW WE Code that the independence of any Non-Executive DO THIS.
IT COVERS HOW THE BOARD AND ITS Director may be compromised if he or she has been in that role for a long period of time.
The Board, COMMITTEES OPERATED IN 2013, AND EXPLAINS with the assistance of the Nomination Committee, THE STEPS WE HAVE TAKEN TO INCREASE has therefore rigorously evaluated Mr P A J Neeps EXPERIENCE AND DIVERSITY AT BOARD LEVEL performance, and the Chairman is satisfied that he continues to be effective and to demonstrate AS WE SEEK TO IMPROVE THE WAY WE RUN commitment to the role.
The Board has therefore THE BUSINESS.
decided to recommend the re-election of Mr P A J Neep at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board views the Senior Independent Directors role generally as a passive one, but acknowledges that there can be occasions where there may be a need for shareholders to convey concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
The companys major shareholders are reminded that the Senior Independent Director is willing to meet with them if they wish.
Mr G J Hoetmer was appointed to the Board on 30 July 2013.
A Dutch national, he started his career with Unilever in 1980, holding a number of positions there until 2005, latterly as Senior Vice President Supply Chain Unilever Foods and he was a member of the Unilever Foods Executive.
He is currently Chief Executive of Corbion, a Dutch-listed bio-based company.
All directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2014 AGM.
As in previous years, brief biographies of Board members, giving details of their experience and other main commitments, can be found on pages 38 and 39, allowing shareholders to make an informed decision on the question of election or re-election.
All the directors have had their performance reviewed recently, as described on page 43 below, and the Chairman is satisfied that each continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
40 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 There is a clear division of authority and responsibility through the separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
This demarcation is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
Directors of the company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The directors believe that it is essential that the group should be led and controlled by an effective board.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it including: the setting of corporate strategy: approval of the annual budget: and major decisions on capital expenditure.
In 2013, the Board broadly divided its time as follows: Division of Board time Strategy and planning 40% Performance review 40% Corporate governance 20% The day to day management of the business is the responsibility of executive management.
Balance and diversity The Chairman and the Board understand the need to ensure that the balance of the Board is appropriate for the requirements of the business, and the benefits of diversity in its broadest sense are clearly understood.
However, for a relatively small Board, it remains difficult to set targets for members of any particular background, and this applies to the issue of women on the Board.
The Boards policy is therefore to actively encourage women to apply to join the Board whenever a vacancy exists, and the report from the Nomination Committee on page 44 sets out how we do this.
Ultimately, however, any appointments must be made on merit, taking account of the specific needs of the business at the relevant times, for the benefit of the company and its stakeholders.
Information flow On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with an induction programme to familiarise themselves with the groups businesses and the risks and strategic challenges facing the group, as well as the economic, competition, legal and regulatory environments in which the group operates.
The directors are supplied with detailed papers covering the groups operating functions in advance of all Board meetings and a secure web-based portal is used to disseminate additional relevant information on a regular basis.
Members of the executive management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board.
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with training provided during the year, ensures that the directors continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the groups businesses, as well as their awareness of industry, risk, legal, regulatory, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil their role effectively on the Board and committees of the Board.
In addition, the Board arranges for its non-executive directors to visit the groups principal locations to discuss operations with local management.
The Board plans to visit at least one of the groups principal locations each year, where they receive a presentation and tour of the facility.
During the course of 2013, the Board visited the groups US operations.
The directors can obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense in performance of their duties as directors, although none has done so in the period under review.
In addition, all directors have access to the service of the Company Secretary, who is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are observed and for advising the Board on Corporate Governance matters.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 41 I 2 3 4 Report of Directors CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Board and committee proceedings The Board acknowledges that it is collectively responsible for the success of the company by providing entrepreneurial leadership, setting the companys strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place and reviewing management performance.
A number of committees carry out detailed independent oversight on behalf of the Board in relation to the audit of the company, health and safety issues, the remuneration of directors and the risks facing the group.
In order to discharge these responsibilities, the Board and its committees meet on a regular basis throughout the year.
In 2013, the Board held 8 meetings.
Full details of the Board and committee attendance are shown in the table below: 1 2 S J Hannam P W B Page G J Hoetmer J A Lodge P A J Neep S C Webb P N Withers Board 8 meetings 8 8 3 8 8 8 8 Audit Committee 7 meetings 7 7 7 Executive Directors Remuneration Committee 3 meetings 3 1 3 3 3 Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee 3 meetings 3 3 Nomination Committee 1 meeting 1 1 1 1 Health and Safety Committee 7 meetings 5 7 7 Risk Committee 4 meetings 4 4 1 Mr G J Hoetmer joined the Board on 30 July 2013 and the Audit and Executive Directors Remuneration Committees on 11 December 2013.
2 Mr P N Withers joined the Nomination Committee on 11 December 2013 Board papers are generally circulated one week before the meetings.
Monthly management accounts in an agreed format are also sent to directors in a timely manner.
The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Health and Safety and Risk Committees, all appropriately resourced, met a total of 25 times during the year.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors met informally during the year, providing an opportunity to review the business without the Executive Directors being present.
Board evaluation In 2012, the Board retained the Zygos Partnership to facilitate the evaluation of its performance.
The process involved extensive interviews with each director and the Company Secretary which were then reviewed with the Chairman.
Formal feedback on the Board Review was then presented to, and discussed by, the Board in December 2012.
The areas specifically covered included the Board structure, the Company Secretariat, number and locations of meetings, Board culture, risk and strategic analysis, all of which were considered in the context of the companys performance and growth since 2007 and the significant opportunities and challenges facing it.
A number of options for developing the strength of the Board were considered, and the Nomination Committee were asked to consider the recruitment of an additional Non-Executive Director.
As a result, Mr G J Hoetmer joined the Board in July 2013, after an external search.
In 2013, the Board reverted to its previous evaluation process based on a detailed questionnaire which is distributed to the directors for their consideration.
Results are collated confidentially by the Company Secretary, and reviewed by the Chairman.
Individual and collective discussions on the Boards performance then followed.
The questionnaire examines the balance of the skills of the directors, the operation of the Board in practice, including governance issues, and the content of Board meetings.
Feedback from the process is used to identify opportunities to improve the performance of the Board and the directors.
42 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 This process also addresses the effectiveness of the Board committees, covering such matters as meeting arrangements, and information provision.
The results of the 2013 process were discussed by the Board and, where areas of improvement were identified, actions were agreed.
A number of actions resulted including the appointment of Mr P N Withers to the Nomination Committee and the appointment of Mr G J Hoetmer to the Audit Committee and the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
A review of the performance of the Chairman was completed by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director.
Relationship with shareholders The company communicates with institutional investors primarily though analysts briefings and meetings with major shareholders, as well as timely Stock Exchange announcements.
The Board, and in particular the Non-Executive Directors, are kept informed of investors views in the main through distribution of analysts and brokers briefings.
The Chairman is willing to meet with shareholders to discuss matters such as strategy and governance and, as mentioned above, the Senior Independent Director is available in the event of shareholder concerns which cannot be addressed through the usual channels.
Broader shareholder communication takes place through the companys website, which contains significant company announcements and other relevant information, and also through the Annual Report and AGM.
All directors attend the AGM, and shareholders have the opportunity to hear presentations on the groups financial and business performance as well as to question any member of the Board on any relevant topic.
Votes at the AGM are conducted by way of a poll to ensure that the votes of shareholders who are unable to attend may be taken into account.
The results are announced to the Stock Exchange.
Each substantial issue is proposed as an individual resolution of the AGM.
The notice is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Directors remuneration Details of the level of remuneration received by the directors in 2013 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 63.
The Board believes that the current levels of remuneration are at the right level to attract and retain the directors needed to run the company successfully, without being excessive.
Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed against those paid for similar positions in comparable companies.
Professional advice from independent advisers is sought each year in this regard by the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
An explanation of the companys incentive schemes, including how these are linked to the companys strategy, is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 63.
The provisions of Schedule A to the Code are applied when incentive schemes are discussed.
The Executive Directors service contracts provide for notice periods of one year.
Due to the technical nature of the business, these contracts contain restrictive covenants which will be rigorously applied and, taking this into account, the Board and the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee believe that the notice periods are reasonable and in the best interests of the company, having regard to prevailing market conditions and current practice among public companies.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration is reviewed from time to time by the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee, taking independent external advice as appropriate.
Mr P A J Neep chaired the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee throughout 2013.
The other members of the Committee were Mr S J Hannam, Mr P N Withers and Ms J A Lodge for the full year.
Mr G J Hoetmer joined on 11 December 2013.
This Committee met three times in 2013.
Throughout 2013, the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee was chaired by Mr P W B Page, with Mr S C Webb as the other member.
The Remuneration Report contains a detailed statement of the remuneration of each director for 2013, including details of the companys pension policy for Executive Directors.
The written remit of the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee is available on the companys website.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 43 I 2 3 4 Report of Directors CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued 4.
Report from the Nomination Committee The members of the Committee during the year were Mr S J Hannam, Ms J A Lodge, and Mr P A J Neep, with Mr P N Withers joining on 11 December 2013.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has written terms of reference which can be found on the companys website.
These include the regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board.
During 2013, the Committee met formally on one occasion.
The question of succession planning for senior management below Board level is primarily the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
In the course of the year under review, one Board appointment was made.
Mr G J Hoetmer was identified after a formal process using the Zygos Partnership as independent consultants.
His extensive background in the international food industry made him an ideal candidate for the role.
The Zygos Partnership also assisted in the Board review process in 2012 as mentioned above.
Following a review of the Davies Report by the Board in the course of 2011, the Committee will continue to facilitate the candidature of women for Board appointments, and recruitment consultants will be instructed to ensure, whenever possible, that a significant proportion of any long list put forward should be women.
Short lists will also be drawn up in a way which forces diversity amongst the final candidates.
Report from the Health and Safety Committee This Committee was formed in 2009, reflecting the Boards commitment to health and safety matters.
The members of the Committee during the year were Mr P N Withers, who chaired the Committee, Mr S J Hannam, Mr P W B Page and Dr M H Cooke, the companys Strategic Development Director.
The Committee convened seven times in 2013 and on four of these occasions met either by video, telephone or in person with representatives of the Safety Committee of one of the groups main manufacturing facilities.
In October 2013, the Committee members visited the facility at Sandy Run, South Carolina, and conducted a plant tour with members of the local Safety Committee.
The safety performance of the group is reviewed at each meeting, and the Committee receives and reviews reports on all serious safety incidents.
The Committee also reviewed and endorsed the safety plans for each of the main sites at the beginning of the year.
Dr M H Cooke retired from the company in December 2013, with the thanks of the Committee for his excellent contribution to the safety effort over the years.
Financial reporting The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
The Annual Report contains a Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37.
Including a Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and Financial Review.
The Board believes that this additional narrative sets the accounts in context and promotes a better understanding of the current status of the business and its outlook.
To ensure consistency of reporting, the group has an established consolidation process as well as formal financial and operational procedures manuals.
Management monitors the publication of new reporting standards and works closely with the external auditors in evaluating the impact of these standards.
44 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 7.
Internal control and risk An ongoing process is in place to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks the group faces, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
A Risk Committee was formed in 2010, comprising the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Board, as listed on pages 38 and 39.
This Committee meets four times a year and is charged with reviewing risk throughout the group.
As part of the process, the Group Risk and Control Manager has responsibility for the application of risk assessment procedures, including an assessment of non-financial risks across the group.
Each group operating company prepares a risk assessment for its business.
This involves each company preparing a report identifying the relevant risks to both current operations and future strategy, the process for managing and mitigating these risks and the means by which management might be assured that the processes are effective.
A similar exercise is also conducted at group level, taking account of any significant risks identified by each of the individual operating companies.
The risk assessment reports are collated and considered by the Risk Committee, and then the Audit Committee, before being reviewed and finalised by the Board.
The Board also chooses a number of key risks for in-depth review by the Risk Committee in the course of the following year.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The principal risks and uncertainties identified as part of the group risk assessment process, and how they are managed or mitigated, are summarised on pages 28 to 31.
The Board of Directors, being ultimately responsible for the groups system of internal control, has established an internal financial control structure which is designed to provide the Board with reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that it can rely on the accuracy and reliability of the financial records.
The structure, which is based on an assessment of material financial risks, can be described under the following headings: Financial reporting There is a budgeting system in place which includes an annual budget approved by the Board.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget.
Revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with two additional Interim Management Statements.
Operating controls Financial and operational policies and procedures are set out in formal procedures manuals.
Business directors and senior financial staff are responsible for ensuring that all relevant staff are familiar with their content and application.
All Board members, Business directors and senior finance staff have been issued with Internal Control Guidelines.
Treasury Formal written treasury procedures are in operation, covering banking arrangements, hedging instruments, investment of cash balances and borrowing procedures.
Individual staff responsibilities and levels of delegated authority in relation to treasury matters are defined.
Internal Audit The company has an internal audit function, which has a reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and also direct access to the Chairman of the Board.
The Group Risk and Control Manager, who is responsible for internal audit, normally attends Audit Committee meetings and makes a formal report to the Committee annually.
Capital investment appraisal The company has clearly defined guidelines for the approval and review of capital expenditure projects, which include annual budgets and designated levels of authority.
Integrity of personnel The company has a Policy on Business Conduct which sets out specific requirements for all staff to meet the companys standards of conduct and integrity in their business dealings.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and considers that the group has an established system of internal control which the directors believe to be appropriate to the business.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 45 I 2 3 4 Report of Directors CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued 8.
Going concern The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37, along with the financial position of the group, its debt levels and borrowing facilities.
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements Key factors to support the going concern basis of accounting include: As at 31 December 2013 the group was operating comfortably within the 61 million revolving bank facilities negotiated in June 2013 and due to expire in September 2016.
In order to fund the planned investment in China, additional debt funding will be sought in the first half of 2014.
Share capital The Takeover Directive disclosures regarding the companys share capital structure are included in the share capital section of the Directors Report on pages 64 to 67 of this report.
Statement on compliance This statement, together with the Remuneration Report set out on pages 50 to 63, describes how, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013, the company has applied the provisions and principles of corporate governance as set out in the Code.
The company has complied with all the Codes provisions throughout the period in question, with one exception.
The companys Remuneration Committee structure does not fully comply with Provision D. 2.2, as the remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee comprising the Executive Directors instead of by a committee of Non-Executive Directors, as proposed by the Code.
The companys two-committee approach, which is more fully described and explained in the Remuneration Report, is designed to ensure that no director is involved in setting his or her own remuneration, thus avoiding any potential conflict of interest, while ensuring that the experience of the Chairman is available to the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
The Board believes that this arrangement is an appropriate and effective use of the available resources and is fully aligned with the spirit of the Code.
Steve Hannam Chairman 18 March 2014 46 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
