Governance Dear Shareholder Corporate 89 On behalf of the board, we are pleased to present the corporate governance report for the year Board of directors and governance ended 30 June 2013. executive committee report The board of directors is responsible for both the stewardship and governance of your 91 company.
As part of this, it sets the companys strategic aims and values and oversees the executive Directors remuneration report management who carry out the operational running of the business.
The board is also charged with reporting to shareholders on the companys performance and, in this area, we feel that we 112 Corporate are already well placed to comply next year with the revised requirements of the UK Corporate governance report Governance Code as defined below to make the annual report fair, balanced and understandable.
122 We continue to believe that our board has the diversity and the mix of skills, experience, Directors report independence and knowledge of the company to enable it to discharge its responsibilities successfully.
In presenting this report, we seek to explain how your company is directed and controlled, by describing the membership and work of the board and its committees, the approach to ensuring board members have an appropriate understanding of the business, and how the board considers its effectiveness.
The report also explains the executive direction and control and our corporate governance structures and procedures.
During the year, the company announced the succession of its chief executive, which was effective on 1 July 2013.
Several other changes to the membership of the executive committee as defined below were made during the year, which were also effective on 1 July 2013 as shown above in the biographies of directors and members of the executive committee.
Changes have also been made to some of the ways of working of the executive committee and these are explained below, in this report.
The principal corporate governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the year ended 30 June 2013 are contained in The UK Corporate Governance Code as updated and published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in May 2010 the Code and the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules, which require companies listed on the Main Market of the LSE to describe, in their annual report, their corporate governance from two points of view: the first dealing generally with their application of the Codes main principles and the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with any of the Codes provisions.
The two descriptions together are designed to give shareholders a picture of governance arrangements in relation to the Code as a criterion of good practice.
Diageo has complied with all relevant provisions set out in the Code throughout the year.
The Code is publicly available under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the FRC, www.
Diageo must also comply with corporate governance rules contained in the FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules as well as certain related provisions in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, as a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Diageo is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of the US SarbanesOxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it applies to foreign issuers, is continually monitored.
While the directors believe that the groups corporate governance policies continue to be robust, changes have been and will continue to be made in light of the rules that are in place at any point in time.
Diageo follows UK corporate governance practice: differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards are summarised below within this report and on the companys website at www.
The way in which the Codes principles of good governance and relevant provisions of SOX and applicable laws and regulations are applied is described within this corporate governance report.
Dr Franz B Humer PD Tunnacliffe Chairman Company Secretary 112 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Activities and duties of the board Board of directors It is the responsibility of the chairman and the company secretary Membership of the board and board committees, other to work closely together in planning the annual programme and directorships and attendance at meetings agendas for meetings.
During the year, five scheduled board The chairmen, senior non-executive director and other members meetings were held, all in the United Kingdom.
In addition, an of the board, audit committee, nomination committee and annual strategy conference with the full executive committee was remuneration committee are as set out above in the biographies held offsite at which the groups strategy was reviewed in depth of directors and members of the executive committee.
and two further board meetings were held, in relation to the The directors biographies also show the significant other acquisition of United Spirits Limited.
commitments of the chairman and other directors and whether Attendance at meetings has been at a high level.
there have been any changes to them during the year.
Directors Nevertheless when directors were unable to attend a meeting, attendance during the year at board meetings, meetings of the they received full information on the matters to be discussed and audit, nomination and remuneration committees and at the took advantage of the opportunity to make their views known to annual general meeting AGM was as set out in the table at the the chairman prior to the meeting.
The board managed overall end of this report.
control of the companys affairs with reference to the formal The board considers that it is beneficial for the executive schedule of matters reserved for the board for decision.
The directors to hold an external directorship to broaden their schedule was last revised in June 2012. experience and normally this would be limited to one company.
The board makes decisions and reviews and approves key The Chief Executive, Ivan Menezes, holds a US non-executive policies and decisions of the company, in particular in relation directorship in Coach, Inc.
The Chief Financial Officer, Deirdre to: group strategy and operating plans: corporate governance: Mahlan holds a UK non-executive directorship in Experian plc.
compliance with laws, regulations and the companys code The former Chief Executive, Paul Walsh who remains on the of business conduct: business development, including major board until the AGM in September 2013, holds UK non-executive investments and disposals: financing and treasury: appointment directorships in Unilever plc and Avanti Communications Group or removal of directors and the company secretary: risk plc and a US non-executive directorship in FedEx Corporation.
management: financial reporting and audit: corporate reputation, There is a clear separation of the roles of the chairman and sustainability and responsibility, ethics and the environment: the chief executive.
The Chairman, Dr Franz B Humer, is and pensions.
responsible for the running of the board and for ensuring all The Act sets out directors general duties concerning directors are fully informed of matters sufficient to make informed conflicts of interest and related matters.
The board has agreed an judgements.
As Chief Executive, Mr Menezes has responsibility approach and adopted guidelines for dealing with conflicts of for implementing the strategy agreed by the board and for interest and responsibility for authorising conflicts of interest is managing the group.
He is supported in this role by the executive included in the schedule of matters reserved for the board.
board confirmed that it was aware of no situations that may or The non-executive directors, all of whom the board has did give rise to conflicts with the interests of the company other determined are independent, are experienced and influential than those that may arise from directors other appointments individuals from a range of industries, backgrounds and as disclosed in their biographies above.
In accordance with the countries.
Their diverse mix of skills and business experience articles, the board authorised the chairman or the company is a major contribution to the proper functioning of the board secretary, as appropriate, to receive notifications of conflicts of and its committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated interest on behalf of the board and to make recommendations and that no individual or group dominates the boards as to whether the relevant matters should be authorised by the decision-making processes.
The company has complied with these procedures during Through the nomination committee, the board ensures the year.
that plans are in place for the succession of the executive and While all directors are equally accountable for the proper non-executive directors.
stewardship of the companys affairs, the non-executive directors A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment have a particular responsibility for ensuring that the business of the non-executive directors is available at www.
com strategies proposed are fully discussed and critically reviewed.
or on request from the company secretary.
This enables the directors to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole, while having regard to, among other matters, the interests of employees, the fostering of business relationships with customers, suppliers and others, and the impact of the companys operations on the communities and environment in which the business operates.
Corporate governance report 113 Governance The non-executive directors also oversee the operational Performance evaluation performance of the whole group.
To do this they have full and During the year, an evaluation of the boards effectiveness, 89 Board of directors and including the effectiveness of the audit committee, the timely access to all relevant information, with updates also executive committee provided on governance and regulatory matters affecting the nomination committee and the remuneration committee 91 company.
In addition, executive committee members and other was undertaken internally by way of a written questionnaire Directors senior executives are invited, as appropriate, to board and strategy followed by the chairman of the board meeting individually remuneration report with all directors.
meetings to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
112 In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for The board questionnaire had a particular emphasis on how Corporate directors to seek both independent advice and the advice and well the board measured against best practice boardroom governance report services of the company secretary who is responsible for advising behaviour and enhancing the effectiveness and added value 122 of the board.
The evaluation of the performance of the board the board, through the chairman, on all governance matters.
Directors report The non-executive directors meet without the chairman present, throughout the year concentrated on framing the future focus of and also meet with the chairman without management present, the board, against a backdrop of how the board perceived it had on a regular basis.
performed: the boardroom dynamics: feedback received in prior evaluation: a breakdown of time allocation: and the companys The non-executive directors fulfil a key role in corporate accountability.
The remits of the audit, the nomination and the strategy.
The aim was to clearly identify areas to enable the board remuneration committees of the board are set out below and to positively affirm that it was playing an effective role in membership of these committees is as set out above in the supporting the success of Diageo.
The questionnaires for the Board of directors and executive committee section of this committees focused on the performance of the respective annual report.
The company secretary acts as secretary to all of committees throughout the year: whether the agendas these committees.
The terms of reference of the committees appropriately covered the remits of the committees: how the are available on the companys website at www.
com performance of the respective committees could be enhanced: en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
and areas of focus for the forthcoming year.
A report was prepared for the board on its effectiveness and Induction, training and business engagement that of its committees.
The report concluded that the board and There is a formal induction programme for new directors, which its committees continued to operate effectively, meeting the was followed during this year in respect of Ho KwonPing.
He met requirements and spirit of the Code.
Processes were seen to have with executive committee members and other senior executives improved to allow a focus and time spent on the most important individually and received orientation training from the relevant matters for the company, including the development of strategy, senior executive in relation to the group and its business.
This and the climate in the boardroom continued to create the included a visit to the Supply operations in Scotland, to the optimum conditions for good decision making and sound customer collaboration centre in the United Kingdom and guidance.
The importance of ensuring appropriate succession to meeting with local management in the Asia Pacific business.
the board to maintain boardroom dynamics and the appropriate Following the initial induction for non-executive directors, balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience had resulted appropriate business engagements continue to be arranged, with in the appointment, with effect from 1 October 2012, of Ho the chairman and non-executive directors also taking advantage KwonPing.
Recognising the changes in the composition of top of business visits overseas to meet with local management.
management of the group and the further development of the companys strategy and activity on the acquisition agenda, the All directors were also provided with the opportunity, and encouraged, to attend regular training to ensure they were kept board decided that of key importance would be: the monitoring up to date on relevant legal developments or changes and best of progress of the transition of the management changes: an practice and changing commercial and other risks.
Typical enhanced focus on the execution of strategy: and a close review of the performance of acquisitions.
training experience for directors included attendance at seminars, forums, conferences and working groups and, during the year Areas identified for the board and committees to maintain ended 30 June 2013, also included internally led risk-based the appropriate governance for and development of the business training on digital marketing and social media.
Training for have been integrated into the evolving annual agendas of the board and its committees.
directors is kept under review during the year and forms part of the chairmans individual meetings held with each director, with The performance of each director was evaluated by the feedback sought from directors on areas and topics that they chairman based on self-analysis and input from the other want to be covered.
A report on the individual performance evaluation process was given to the nomination committee.
Following the performance evaluation of individual directors, the chairman has confirmed that the non-executive directors standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The senior non-executive director led a performance evaluation of the chairman.
Feedback from directors was discussed in a meeting with the executive and non-executive directors and then privately with the chairman.
It is the boards intention to continue to review annually its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
In respect of the evaluation process in 2014, it is expected that an externally facilitated evaluation will be carried out the last externally facilitated performance evaluation having been done in 2011.
114 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Audit committee the companys current choice of external auditor.
Following Role of the audit committee areview of KPMGs performance and independence in 2013, including compliance with rules on non-audit services, the audit The audit committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing: the integrity of the financial statements, including a review committee was satisfied with the auditors effectiveness and of the significant financial reporting judgements contained independence and has recommended to the board that KPMG in them: be reappointed as the companys external auditor for the year ending 30 June 2014.
The committee will continue to review the the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management and of control over financial reporting: performance of the external auditors on an annual basis, and the effectiveness of the global audit and risk function, including consider their independence and objectivity taking into account the programme of work undertaken by that function: all appropriate guidelines.
The audit committee assessed the ongoing effectiveness the groups policies and practices concerning business conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing: of the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings the groups overall approach to securing compliance with laws, and a questionnaire-based internal review with finance and regulations and company policies in areas of risk: and global audit and risk staff and other senior executives.
In reviewing the independence of the external auditor, the audit committee the companys relationship with the external auditor, including its independence and managements response to any major considered a number of factors.
These include: the standing, external audit recommendations.
experience and tenure of the external audit director: the nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: and confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act, the board has withrelevant UK and US independence standards.
determined that Philip Scott is independent and may be regarded The group has a policy on auditor independence and on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, which is as an audit committee financial expert.
The chairman, the chief financial officer, the group controller, reviewed annually, most recently in July 2013.
Under this policy the head of global audit and risk, the global risk and compliance the provision of any non-audit service must be approved by the director, the group chief accountant and the external auditor are audit committee, unless the proposed service is both expected to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one of a number normally invited to attend meetings.
The audit committee met privately with the external auditor of service categories which the audit committee has preand with the head of global audit and risk as appropriate.
These pre-approved service categories may be summarised as follows: accounting advice, employee benefit plan audits, and audit Work of the audit committee During the year, the audit committee formally reviewed the or other attestation services, not otherwise prohibited: annual reports and associated preliminary year-end results due diligence and other support in respect of acquisitions, announcement, focusing on key areas of judgement and disposals, training and other business initiatives: and certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax complexity, critical accounting policies, provisioning and any changes required in these areas or policies.
In addition, the planning and related implementation advice in relation to audit committee reviewed the interim results announcement, acquisitions, disposals and other reorganisations.
which included the interim financial statements and the Fees paid to the auditor for audit, audit related and other services companys interim management statements.
The audit committee also reviewed the work of the filings assurance are analysed in note 3 c to the consolidated financial statements.
committee described below and was updated on litigation The main non-audit related services provided by the auditor risks by the groups general counsel.
during the year were in respect of due diligence work for potential acquisitions and tax advice.
The auditor was considered to be best The audit committee received detailed presentations from certain senior executives on the management of key risk and placed to provide these services and was the provider that offered control issues in their respective business areas, reviewed the best value.
The nature and level of all services provided by theeffectiveness and findings from internal control and risk the external auditor is a factor taken into account by the audit committee when it reviews annually the independence of the management processes described below and reviewed the work of the compliance and ethics programme and the external auditor.
work of the audit and risk committee, described below.
The audit committee has noted the changes to the Code The audit committee had available to it the resources of introduced by the FRC in September 2012 and, in particular, the new requirement contained in the Guidance on Audit the global audit and risk function, the activities of which are described below.
Committees to put the external audit contract out to tender in During the year, the audit committee reviewed the external future at least every 10 years.
The FRC has suggested possible audit strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its transitional arrangements, under which an external audit tender process would fit the cycle of audit partner rotation.
The audit review of the interim results and its audit of the consolidated financial statements.
was last tendered in 1999, and since then there have been four The audit committee reviews annually the appointment of different lead audit partners in accordance with KPMGs own the auditor and, on the audit committees recommendation, the guidance on independence, most recently for the year ended 30 June 2013.
Having previously conducted a full tender exercise board agreed in July 2013 to recommend to shareholders at the AGM in 2013, the re-appointment of the external auditor for a and considered retendering in subsequent years, the committee period of one year.
The current overall tenure of the external will continue to give consideration to the timing of the next formal auditor dates from 1997.
Any decision to open the external tender in light of the 2012 Code requirements noted above and any further changes in the regulatory framework.
In any event, we auditor to tender is taken on the recommendation of the audit committee, based on the results of the effectiveness review do not anticipate that this will be later than the date of the rotation described below.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict of the current lead audit partner.
Corporate governance report 115 Governance Nomination committee Remuneration committee Role of the nomination committee Role of the remuneration committee 89 Board of directors and The role of the remuneration committee and details of how the The nomination committee is responsible for keeping under executive committee review the composition of the board and succession to it, and company applies the principles of the Code in respect of directors 91 succession planning for senior management positions.
It makes remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report.
Directors recommendations to the board concerning appointments to The chairman and the chief executive may, by invitation, remuneration report attend remuneration committee meetings, except when their theboard, whether of executive or non-executive directors, 112 having regard to the balance and structure of the board and the own remuneration is discussed.
No director is involved in Corporate required blend of skills, experience, independence and diversity.
determining his or her own remuneration.
governance report The nomination committee also makes recommendations to 122 the board concerning the re-appointment of any non-executive Directors report Executive direction and control director at the conclusion of his or her specified term and the Executive committee re-election of any director by shareholders under the retirement The executive committee, appointed and chaired by the chief provisions of the companys articles of association.
No director executive, consists of the individuals responsible for the key is involved in determining his or her own re-appointment or components of the business: the North America, Western Europe, re-election.
AEET Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey, Latin America and Any new directors are appointed by the board and, in Caribbean and Asia Pacific markets, global supply and global accordance with the companys articles of association, they must functions.
The members of the committee and their biographies are be elected at the next AGM to continue in office.
All existing set out above in the Board of directors and executive committee directors retire by rotation every year, as required by the Code.
section of this annual report.
During the year, Ivan Menezes was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 1 July 2013.
Activities of the nomination committee The executive committee met, fully, five times during the The principal activities of the nomination committee during the year, and spent most of its time discussing strategy, including year were: the review of individual performance: a review of the individual market and brand and category strategies, executive committee structure, membership and succession management succession and talent and other people matters, planning for it and senior leadership positions: the consideration and financial, brand and operational performance.
Meetings were of potential non-executive directors and the succession to the held in the United States, the United Kingdom three meetings role of chief executive.
In addition, scheduled interim update In respect of the appointment of Ho KwonPing to the board meetings were held by teleconference throughout the year.
with effect from 1 October 2012, the recruitment process included Responsibility and authority within the financial limits set by the development of a candidate profile and the engagement the board were delegated by the chief executive to individual of a professional search agency specialising in the recruitment members of the executive committee who were accountable of high calibre non-executive directors.
Reports on potential to him for the performance of their business units.
appointees were provided to the committee, which, after To support the executive direction, executive working carefulconsideration, made a recommendation to the board.
groups were in operation to which were delegated particular In respect of the appointment of Ivan Menezes as Chief tasks, generally with specific time spans and success criteria.
Executive, the committee made a recommendation to the board, A focus on the ways of working of the executive committee believing that the appointment was appropriate for the future and performance management was undertaken for the executive leadership of the business.
No change was made to the Diageo supports diversity within its board of directors, responsibility and authority delegated by the chief executive including gender diversity.
Currently there are four female to individual members or the executive committee as directors, out of a total of eleven board members.
that all four bring a wealth of international business experience The executive committee agendas will focus specifically and are an asset to the company and the board.
on delivery of the companys performance ambition and how Without seeking to set a specific goal for female to achieve the performance imperatives.
Time will be allocated representation on the board, it remains our aspiration to maintain throughout the year for specific focus on each of these a high level of diversity, including gender diversity, within the imperatives and performance metrics have been developed to boardroom, appropriate to and reflecting the global nature measure progress.
While time will be built in for other important of the company and the strategic imperatives the board has business issues as they arise, a further designated focus will be on agreed upon.
For similar reasons, Diageo has set itself a goal to increase Additionally monthly performance delivery calls will be held the number of women in leadership positions in the company.
with the managing directors of the key markets and members of Currently, five of the fifteen members of the executive committee the executive committee.
are women compared to one of fourteen shown in last years To support the market visits made by the regional annual report, and 28% 2012 26% of leadership positions presidents in the ordinary course of their business, a small across the business are filled by women.
The aim of the board group led by the chief executive will also make regular market is to continue to ensure that the company has the right balance visits focused on the execution of strategy and designed to ofskills, diversity, in all forms, and experience.
assist in continuing the development of strategy and in the This approach has led Diageo to be well represented by annual target planning process.
women on the board and the executive committee and having This revised approach and focus will reduce the amount of fully considered the succession to leadership positions over the overall meeting time and need for the continuation of a number ensuing years, the board is confident it will continue to be able of the established executive working groups.
to report progress on the gender diversity agenda.
Committees intended to have an ongoing remit are outlined below.
116 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Audit and risk committee Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for: overseeing within specified time periods.
As of the date of the evaluation, the chief executive and the chief financial officer concluded the approach to securing effective internal control and risk management in the group: reviewing the adequacy of the that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and groups sources of assurance over the management of key risks: procedures were effective to ensure that information required reviewing managements self-assessment process over internal to be disclosed in the reports that the company files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to controls: reviewing the effectiveness of the groups compliance and ethics programme: and reporting periodically on the above the management, including the companys chief executive and to the audit committee or to the board.
In addition, the audit chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions and risk committee is responsible for promoting the culture and regarding disclosure.
processes that support effective compliance with the groups codes of conduct, global policies and business guidelines Additional information throughout the business and supports the audit committee, Internal control and risk management board and executive committee in satisfying its corporate Diageos aim is to manage risk and to control its business and governance responsibilities relating to internal control and risk financial activities cost-effectively and in a manner that enables it management within the group.
to: exploit profitable business opportunities in a disciplined way: avoid or reduce risks that can cause loss, reputational damage or Corporate citizenship committee business failure: support operational effectiveness: and enhance Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for making resilience to external events.
To achieve this, an ongoing process decisions or, where appropriate, recommendations to the has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing board or executive committee concerning policies, issues and risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies with the measurement and reporting for the following impacts across requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full financial Diageos value chain: alcohol in society: water: broader year and up to the date the financial statements were approved environmental sustainability: community: our people and and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting governance and ethics.
Progress in these areas is reported Council in October 2005, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for periodically to the board and publicly through a separate Directors on the Combined Code, also known as the Turnbull Sustainability & Responsibility Report, selected aspects of which guidance as amended by the Flint review.
are subject to external assurance.
This report and the groups The board acknowledges that it is responsible for the social, ethical and environmental policies are published on the companys systems of internal control and risk management Diageo website.
and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The board confirms that, During the year, two executive working groups one on through the activities of the audit committee described above, alcohol in society, chaired by the corporate relations director, it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys systems of and one on environmental performance, chaired by the internal control and risk management described below.
president, global supply and procurement assisted the All business units and the executive committee are required committee with decisions on specific issues.
to maintain a process to ensure key risks are identified, evaluated and managed appropriately.
This process is also applied to major Finance committee business decisions or initiatives, such as systems implementations, Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the new product development, business combination activity or chief executive, this committee is responsible for making significant business strategy implementation.
Additional risk recommendations to the board on funding strategy, capital management activity is focused directly towards operational risks structure and management of financial risks and the policies and within the business, including health and safety, product quality control procedures including financial issues relating to treasury and environmental risk management.
and taxation required to implement the companys financial Business unit risk assessments, and the activities planned strategy and financial risk management policies.
In certain specific to manage those risks, are reviewed by relevant executives, for circumstances, the board has delegated authority to the finance example at periodic business reviews.
The oversight of primary committee to make decisions in these areas.
Treasury activity is level risks, as detailed in the executive committee risk assessment, managed centrally within tightly defined dealing authorities is allocated as appropriate between the board, board committees and procedures recommended by the finance committee and the executive committee.
The executive committee risk and approved by the board.
assessment, and selected key risk assessments, are reviewed by the audit and risk committee and by the audit committee.
Filings assurance committee In addition, business units are required to self-assess the Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief effectiveness of the design of their internal control framework.
executive, this committee is responsible for implementing and Relevant executives review the results of these self-assessments monitoring the processes which are designed to ensure that the and summary reporting is provided to the audit and risk company complies with relevant UK, US and other regulatory committee and audit committee.
Risk management and internal reporting and filing provisions, including those imposed by SOX control processes encompass activity to mitigate financial, or derived from it.
As at the end of the period covered by this operational, compliance and reputational risk.
Specific processes report, the filings assurance committee, with the participation are also in place to ensure management maintain adequate of the chief executive and chief financial officer, carried out an internal control over financial reporting, as separately evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of reported below.
These are defined as those controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Corporate governance report 117 Governance A network of risk management committees is in place across the comprise the compliance programme are available on the group, which has overall accountability for supporting the audit companys website at www.
com en-row ourbusiness 89 Board of directors and aboutus corporategovernance.
and risk committee in its corporate governance responsibilities executive committee byproactively and effectively identifying and managing risk and Compliance and ethics programme guidelines specify 91 monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls.
the manner in which any potential violations of these codes Directors Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken, should be dealt with, including line manager reporting and an remuneration report independent SpeakUp employee help line.
The latter is operated where necessary, to remedy any deficiencies identified through 112 the groups internal control and risk management processes.
independently and all reports are sent, in confidence, to the Corporate The global risk and compliance and global audit and risk global risk and compliance director and head of corporate governance report functions give the audit committee, board and executive security for review, and where appropriate, investigation and 122 escalation to the audit committee as required.
There is an annual committee visibility and understanding of the groups key risks Directors report and risk management capability and provide assurance over certification requirement for all management level employees the quality of the groups internal control and management of to confirm compliance with the code of business conduct and key risks in line with a plan agreed by the audit committee.
to identify areas of possible non-compliance to the global risk and compliance director.
During the year this requirement was These risk management processes and systems of internal control, together with the filings assurance processes, are extended to the greater part of the non-management population.
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to To reinforce our stand against bribery or corruption in any form and achieve the groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised to create greater simplicity in our guidance in this area, Diageo that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, launched a new global anti-corruption policy during the year.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year, the global compliance and ethics team During the year, in line with the revised principles of the was integrated with the global governance and control team to create a new combined team, global risk and compliance, which is Code, the board considered the nature and extent of the risks it was willing to take to achieve its strategic goals and reviewed responsible for risk management, internal control and compliance the existing internal statement of risk appetite, which describes and ethics across the group.
This integration recognises the existing risk behaviours and identifies a set of high level risk connectivity between these pillars of governance and has been carried out to further improve the effectiveness of these statements underpinning them.
The statement of risk appetite serves to complement Diageos risk policy and was considered activities by enhancing the existing connections, eliminating any and recommended to the board by both the audit and risk duplication and improving the understanding of the risk across committee and the audit committee.
The new structure is in line with industry practice and has been endorsed by the board.
The company has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to the companys financial Both the audit and risk committee and the audit committee reporting process and the groups process for preparation of review the operation of the compliance and ethics programme.
These systems are described above and Relations with shareholders under the headings Filings assurance committee, Audit and risk committee and Managements report on internal control over The company values its dialogue with both institutional financial reporting.
Diageos filings assurance committee and and private investors.
The boards primary contact with audit and risk committee are each responsible for overseeing institutional shareholders is through the chief executive and chief financial officer.
elements of these internal control and risk management systems.
Furthermore, a review of the consolidated financial statements is The chief executive and chief financial officer are supported completed by management to ensure that the financial position by the investor relations department, who are in regular contact and results of the group are appropriately reflected therein.
with institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts.
Coverage of the company by sell-side analysts is circulated to the Compliance and ethics programme board.
The board also ensures that all directors develop an Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and understanding of the views of major institutional shareholders in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business through an independent survey of shareholder opinion.
In addition, major shareholders are invited to raise any company activities are subject.
The board has a comprehensive training and education programme for both employees and the network of matters of interest to them at meetings with the chairman and control, compliance and ethics teams, whose role it is to be the key the chairman of the remuneration committee.
The chairman point of contact for compliance within each market and function.
reports on any meeting to the board.
Investor seminars and analyst presentations, including those The code of business conduct is also supported by a set of global policies.
During the year these policies were reviewed and following the announcement of interim results and preliminary revised where necessary to ensure they remained relevant.
year end results, are webcast and other presentations made to The Diageo marketing code together with Diageos institutional investors are available on the companys website.
For the year ended 30 June 2013, Diageo produced an digital code of practice remain the principles that Diageo follows in relation to marketing and promotional activities of its brands annual report, which is available to all shareholders on its website, and products.
or in paper form by election or on request.
As an alternative to In addition, in accordance with the requirements of SOX receiving a paper notification through the post, shareholders may elect to receive email notification that the documents are and related SEC rules, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics covering its chief executive, chief financial officer, regional available to be accessed on the companys website.
Shareholders presidents and other identifiable persons in the group, including can also choose to receive email notification when new company those performing senior accounting and controller functions.
No information is published on www.
The website also provides private shareholders with the facility to check their amendments to, or waivers in respect of, the code of ethics were made during the year.
The full texts of the code of ethics, code of shareholdings online and to send any questions they may have business conduct, marketing code and other Diageo policies that to the company.
118 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Private shareholders are invited to write to the chairman or any The group has significant financial resources, strong cash other director and express their views on any issues of concern generation from operations and good access to debt markets.
Consequently, the directors believe that the group is well placed atany time and the AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to put their questions in person.
to manage its business risks despite the current uncertain The chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration economic environment.
committees are normally available at the AGM to take any relevant The directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have reasonable expectation that the group has questions and all other directors attend, unless illness or another pressing commitment precludes them from doing so.
At general adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the to all shareholders and is published on www.
The going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and does not bundle resolutions together Managements report on internal control over inappropriately.
Non-binding resolutions on the receipt of financial reporting the reports and accounts and the approval of the directors Management, under the supervision of the chief executive and chief financial officer, is responsible for establishing and remuneration report are put to shareholders at the AGM.
maintaining adequate control over the groups financial reporting.
Charitable and political donations Diageos internal control over financial reporting includes policies During the year, total charitable donations made by the group and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions were 32.1 million 2012 28.7 million.
UK group companies made donations of 14.7 million 2012 13.5 million to and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurance that charitable organisations including 1.1 million 2012 1.1 million transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation to the Diageo Foundation, 8.3 million 2012 8.1 million to of financial statements in accordance with International Financial the Thalidomide Trust and 1.7 million to the Thalidomide Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and IFRS Foundation Ltd in Australia 2012 1.5 million.
In the rest of as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : the world, group companies made charitable donations provide reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are of 17.4 million 2012 15.2 million.
made only in accordance with authorisation of management and The group has not given any money for political purposes the directors of the company: and provide reasonable assurance in the United Kingdom and made no donations to EU political regarding prevention or timely detection of any unauthorised organisations and incurred no EU political expenditure during the acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material year.
The group made contributions to non-EU political parties effect on the consolidated financial statements.
totalling 0.5 million during the year 2012 0.4 million.
These Management has assessed the effectiveness of Diageos were all made, consistent with applicable laws, to federal and internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules state candidates and committees in North America, where it is 13 a -13 f and 15 d -15 f under the Exchange Act based on the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued common practice to make political contributions.
No particular political persuasion was supported and contributions were made bythe Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway with the aim of promoting a better understanding of the group Commission COSO.
Based on this assessment, management and its views on commercial matters, as well as a generally concluded that, as at 30 June 2013, internal control over financial reporting was effective.
Any internal control framework, no matter how well Supplier payment policies and performance designed, has inherent limitations, including the possibility of Given the international nature of the groups operations, there is human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls and procedures and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, no group standard in respect of payments to suppliers.
The group applies a standard term of 60 days in respect of payments to the projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are majority of suppliers.
Where this standard term does not yet apply, subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and of changes in conditions or because the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
conditions for their business transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, so that suppliers are aware of the terms During the period covered by this report, there were no of payment and the relevant terms are included in contracts changes in internal control over financial reporting that have where appropriate.
Creditor days for Diageo plc have not been materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect theeffectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
calculated, as the company had no material trade creditors at 30 June 2013.
The majority of the companys invoices for goods KPMG Audit Plc, an independent registered public and services are settled by subsidiaries acting on its behalf.
accounting firm, who also audit the groups consolidated financial statements, has audited the effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial reporting, and has issued an unqualified Going concern The groups business activities together with significant risk report thereon, which will be included in the companys Form factors are set out above in the Business description section of 20-F filed with the SEC.
The liquidity position, capital resources and risk Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and management processes covering exposure to currency, interest rate, credit, liquidity and commodity price risk are described in the financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Corporate governance report 119 Governance Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent Responsibility statement company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Each of the directors, whose names are set out above in the Board 89 Board of directors and of directors and executive committee section of this annual law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in executive committee accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and applicable report, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: 91 law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial the consolidated financial statements contained in the annual Directors statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and report for the year ended 30 June 2013, which have been remuneration report prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The 112 directors have taken responsibility to prepare the group financial adopted for use in the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, Corporate statements also in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and governance report Thedirectors have also presented certain additional information the management report represented by the directors report 122 contained in the annual report for the year ended 30 June 2013 required by the SEC for the purposes of the companys Form 20-F. Directors report The group financial statements are required by law and includes a fair review of the development and performance of IFRS to present fairly the financial position and the performance the business and the position of the group, together with a of the group: the Act provides in relation to such financial description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the group faces.
statements that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The responsibility statement was approved by the board of The parent company financial statements are required directors on 30 July 2013. by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
New York Stock Exchange corporate governance rules In preparing each of the group and parent company Under applicable SEC rules and the NYSEs corporate governance financial statements, the directors are required to: rules for listed companies, Diageo must disclose any significant select suitable accounting policies and then apply ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from them consistently: those followed by US companies under NYSE listing standards.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Diageo believes the following to be the significant areas in and prudent: which there are differences between its corporate governance for the group financial statements, state whether they have practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use companies.
This information is also provided on the companys in the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB: website at www.
for the parent company financial statements, state whether Basis of regulation: UK listed companies are required to include applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, in their annual report a narrative statement of i how they have subject to any material departures disclosed and explained applied the principles of the Code and ii whether or not they in the parent company financial statements: and have complied with the best practice provisions of the Code.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis NYSE listed companies must adopt and disclose their corporate unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the governance guidelines.
Diageo complied throughout the year parent company will continue in business.
with the best practice provisions of the Code.
Director independence: the Code requires at least half the board excluding the chairman to be independent nonThe directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent executive directors, as determined by affirmatively concluding companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at that a director is independent of management and free from any time the financial position of the parent company and enable any relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
NYSE rules require a majority of them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with regard to group consolidated independent directors, according to the NYSEs own brightline financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They have tests and an affirmative determination by the board that the general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open director has no material relationship with the listed company.
Diageos board has determined that, in its judgement and to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
without taking into account the NYSE brightline tests, all of Under applicable UK and US law and regulations, the the non-executive directors excluding the chairman are directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, independent.
As such, currently seven of Diageos eleven directors are independent.
a directors remuneration report and a corporate governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
Chairman and chief executive: the Code requires these roles Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the to be separate.
There is no corresponding requirement for preparation and dissemination of financial statements may US companies.
Diageo has a separate chairman and chief executive.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
120 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Non-executive director meetings: NYSE rules require nonrequirements of the Code, Diageo discloses in its annual management directors to meet regularly without report the results and means of evaluation of the board, itscommittees and the directors, and it provides extensive management and independent directors to meet separately at least once a year.
The Code requires non-executive directors information regarding directors compensation in the directors to meet without the chairman present at least annually to remuneration report.
During the year, Code of ethics: NYSE rules require a code of business conduct and ethics to be adopted for directors, officers and employees Diageos chairman and non-executive directors met six times as a group without executive directors being present, and and disclosure of any waivers for executive directors or officers.
the independent directors met once without the chairman.
Diageo has adopted a code of business conduct for all Board committees: Diageo has a number of board committees directors, officers and employees, as well as a code of ethics for senior officers in accordance with the requirements of SOX.
that are similar in purpose and constitution to those required by NYSE rules.
Diageos audit, remuneration and nomination Currently, no waivers have been granted to directors or committees consist entirely of independent non-executive executive officers.
directors save that the chairman of the nomination committee, Compliance certification: NYSE rules require chief executives to certify to the NYSE their awareness of any NYSE corporate Dr Humer, is not independent.
Under NYSE standards, companies are required to have a nominating corporate governance violations.
Diageo is exempt from this as a foreign governance committee, which develops and recommends private issuer but is required to notify the NYSE if any executive a set of corporate governance principles and is composed officer becomes aware of any non-compliance with NYSE entirely of independent directors.
The terms of reference for corporate governance standards.
No such notification was Diageos nomination committee, which comply with the Code, necessary during the period covered by this report.
do not contain such a requirement.
In accordance with the Directors attendance record at the AGM, board meetings and board committee meetings, for the year ended 30 June 2013 was as set out in the table below.
For board and board committee meetings, attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out ofthe number that each director was eligible to attend.
Annual General Audit Nomination Remuneration Meeting Board committee committee committee 2012 maximum 7 maximum 4 maximum 3 maximum 5 Dr Franz B Humer 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 Paul Walsh 7 7 2 4 3 3 5 5 Ivan Menezes 7 7 n a 1 3 2 5 Deirdre Mahlan 7 7 4 4 n a 1 5 Lord Davies 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 Peggy Bruzelius 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 Laurence Danon 7 7 3 4 3 3 5 5 Betsy Holden 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 Ho KwonPing 6 6 3 3 2 2 3 4 Philip Scott 7 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 Todd Stitzer 6 7 4 4 3 3 5 5 Attended by invitation.
Attended by invitation, for part only.
