Chief Financial Officer Diageo plc in April 2009.
Resorts & Hotels Public in October 2007.
He is a Board of directors and and before that Head of She is Chairman of Company Limited, Thai Non-Executive Director of Tax and Treasury.
She Lancelot Asset Wah Food Products the Royal Bank of Scotland company secretary joined the company in Management in Sweden Public Company Limited Group plc.
During the 2001, having held various and a Non-Executive and the Singapore year he stepped down as senior finance positions Director of Akzo Nobel Management University.
President of the Institute in Joseph E. Seagram & NV in the Netherlands He is a member of the and Faculty of Actuaries.
Sons, Inc. since 1992 and and Axfood AB, Lundin International Council He was previously Chief having formerly been Petroleum AB and and East Asia Council of Financial Officer of a senior manager with Skandia Liv AB, all of INSEAD, member of the Aviva plc.
She Global Advisory Board of was appointed as a was formerly Managing Moelis & Company and a Dr Franz B Humer Paul S Walsh Non-Executive Director Director of ABB Financial Governor of the London Chairman, NonAdvisor to the of Experian plc on Services AB, headed the Business School.
Formerly, 3 Executive Director Chairman and the 1 September 2012 and asset management arm he served as Chairman of Swiss Austrian 67 Chief Executive, is also a Member of the of Skandinaviska Enskilda MediaCorp Pte.
Ltd and 2 Executive Director Appointed Chairman Main Committee of the Banken AB and a Nonwas a Non-Executive H Todd Stitzer British 58 of Diageo plc in July 100 Group of Finance Executive Director of Director of Singapore Non-Executive 2008, having been a Appointed Advisor to the Directors.
During the Airlines Limited, Standard 1,3, 4 Director Non-Executive Director Chairman and the Chief year she stepped down Chartered PLC and American 61 since April 2005.
He is Executive of Diageo plc as Non-Executive Singapore Power Limited.
Appointed a Nonalso Chairman of from 1 July 2013, having Director of Syngenta AG.
Executive Director of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd previously been Chief Diageo plc in June 2004. in Switzerland, Chairman Executive since He is Chairman of Signet of INSEADs Board of September 2000.
He has Jewelers Limited and a Directors and a served in a number of Lord Davies Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director management roles since of Abersoch of Massachusetts Mutual of CitiGroup Inc.
He was joining GrandMets Senior Non-Executive Betsy D Holden Life Insurance Company.
formerly Chief Operating brewing division in 1982, 1,3, 4 Director Laurence M Danon Non-Executive He is also a member Director of Glaxo including Chief Executive 1,3, 4 British 60 Non-Executive Director of the Advisory Board Holdings plc and has Officer of The Pillsbury 1,3, 4 Director American 57 Appointed a Nonof Hamlin Capital held a number of other Company.
He was French 57 Executive Director of Appointed a NonManagement, LLC, non-executive appointed to the Diageo plc in September Appointed a NonExecutive Director of a New York based directorships.
GrandMet board in 2010 and Senior Executive Director of Diageo plc in September investment advisory firm, October 1995 and to Non-Executive Director Diageo plc in January 2009.
She is a Senior a member of the Advisory the Diageo plc board in and Chairman of the 2006.
She is Co-President Advisor to McKinsey & Committee of Virgin December 1997.
He is a Remuneration of the Executive Board Company and is a Group Holdings Limited.
Non-Executive Director Committee in October of Leonardo & Co and a Non-Executive Director of He was previously Chief of Avanti Communication 2011.
Lord Davies is a Non-Executive Director Catamaran Corporation Executive of Cadbury plc.
Group plc, Unilever PLC Partner of Corsair Capital, of Groupe BPCE and TF1, and Western Union He will retire from the and FedEx Corporation in Ivan Menezes Chairman of Chime both in France.
Formerly Company, both of which Diageo board at the the United States.
He was Chief Executive, Communications PLC, she served with the are in the United States.
September 2013 Annual 2 appointed a Business Executive Director Non-Executive French Ministry of She is a member General Meeting.
Ambassador on the UK American British 54 Chairman of Pinebridge Industry and Energy, of the Board of Trustees Governments Business Appointed Chief Investments Limited held a number of senior at Duke University.
She Ambassador Network on Executive of Diageo plc and Chair of the Global management posts is also a member of the 9 August 2012 and is also on 1 July 2013, having Advisory Board of Moelis with Total Fina Elf and North American Advisory a Member of the Council been a Director since & Company.
He is also was Chairman and Board for Schneider of the Scotch Whisky July 2012.
He was Chief a Trustee of the Royal Chief Executive Officer Electric and a member of Association.
During the Operating Officer from Academy of Arts and of France Printemps.
the Executive Committee year he stepped down Paul D Tunnacliffe March 2012 and was Chair of the Council, She was also Chairman at the Kellogg School of as lead Non-Executive Company Secretary previously President, University of Wales of the Executive Board of Management Global and Deputy Chair of the British 51 North America since Bangor.
Previously he was Edmond fide Rothschild Advisory Board.
During Board of the Department Appointed Company January 2004, Chairman, a Non-Executive Director Corporate Finance and the year her tenure ended of Energy and Climate Secretary of Diageo plc Diageo Asia Pacific since of Bharti Airtel Limited a Non-Executive Director as a Non-Executive Change and as a Member in January 2008.
He was October 2008 and and Minister for Trade, of Experian Group Director of Tribune of the UK Governments formerly Company Chairman, Diageo Latin Investment and Small Limited, Plastic Omnium Company.
Formerly she Business Advisory Group.
America and Caribbean Business for the UK SA and Rhodia SA.
was President, Global He will retire from the since July 2011.
Prior to Government between Marketing and Category Diageo board at the this he held various senior January 2009 and May Development and September 2013 Annual management positions 2010.
Prior to this role, Co-Chief Executive General Meeting.
with Guinness and then Lord Davies was Officer of Kraft Foods, Inc. Diageo and worked Chairman of Standard across a variety of sales, Chartered PLC.
marketing and strategy Ho KwonPing roles with Nestl in Asia, Non-Executive Booz Allen Hamilton Inc 1,3, 4 Director in the United States and Singaporean 60 Deirdre Mahlan Whirlpool in Europe.
He Philip G Scott Chief Financial Officer, Appointed a Nonis also a Non-Executive 2 Non-Executive Executive Director Executive Director of Key to committees Director of Coach Inc. 1, 3,4 Peggy B Bruzelius Director American 51 Diageo plc in October 1 in the United States.
He is Executive 2 Appointed Chief E xecutive comprising 1,3, 4 Director Chairman and Founder Appointed a NonFinancial Officer and senior management Swedish 63 of Banyan Tree Holdings Executive Director of 3 aDirector of Diageo plc Nomination Appointed a NonLimited and is also Diageo plc and Chairman 4 inOctober 2010, prior to Remuneration Executive Director of Chairman of Laguna of the Audit Committee which she was Deputy Chairman of committee Board of directors and executive committee 89
