Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information D Diig gn niit ty y p pllc c 2 59 3 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 013 13 Nomination Committee report I am pleased to report that the full Board continues to strongly support the spirit of the Davies Report and we achieved our goal of 20 per cent of our Board being comprised of women in 2012.
Dear Shareholder, The Committee, and by extension the full Board, continue to On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the support the spirit of Lord Davies Report Women on Boards.
In 2011 we set a goal of 20 per cent of Board positions to be filled by women by 2015.
This objective was achieved in 2012.
Throughout 2013 the Nomination Committee theCommittee We continue to remain mindful of the overall need to recruit the consisted of me as Chairman, Alan McWalter Senior very best candidates regardless of gender and will continue to Independent Director, Jane Ashcroft, Ishbel Macpherson and encourage similar diversity in senior management positions Martin Pexton each of whom are independent Non-Executive and throughout the workforce.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
I am also pleased to confirm that the Group will continue to publish the details on corporate diversity suggested in The principal duties of the Committee are as follows to: Recommendation 2 of the Davies Report, support the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in Recommendation 3 Keep under review the structure, size and composition of and report on our compliance Recommendation 4 and the Board which includes ensuring that it has the necessary appointment process Recommendation 5 in our Annual Report.
skills, knowledge and experience: During the period, the Board completed an externally facilitated Regularly consider succession planning for the Directors evaluation.
The results of this are discussed on page 46. and senior managers: Be responsible for identifying and nominating for approval Finally, the Companys Articles provide that all Directors retire by the full Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and by rotation with one third being subject to re-election each when they arise: year.
However we continue to adopt the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code such that all Directors offer Keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both themselves for re-election annually.
executive and non-executive: Review annually the time required from the Non-Executive This Nomination Committee report was reviewed and Directors: and approved by the Board on 5 March 2014. Review annually performance of the Committee and evaluation of the Directors standing for re-election at the AGM.
Peter Hindley The terms of reference are available on the Groups corporate Chairman of the Nomination Committee website at www.
5 March 2014 The Committee met twice in 2013.
At these meetings the principal duties of the Committee were formally considered and no issues or concerns were identified.
The members of the Committees attendance record is set out on page 47.
I report on the Committees proceedings at the next full Board meeting and the minutes of those meetings are made available to all members of the Board.
There were no changes to the composition of the Board in 2013 as two new Non-Executive Directors, Jane Ashcroft and Martin Pexton were appointed in 2012 to replace Non-Executive Directors, James Newman and Bill Forrester, who retired.
