Dignity plc 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Board of Directors n Peter Hindley Mike McCollum NonExecutive Chairman Chief Executive The role of our experienced Appointed to the Board: 2004 Appointed to the Board: 2004 Board is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of Background and experience: Background and experience: Peter has extensive experience of the Mike joined Dignitys former parent, strong, sustainable financial industry having been appointed Chief SCI, in 1995 from KPMG Corporate performance and long-term Executive of Plantsbrook Group plc Finance in London.
Following the acquisition Director he was part of the shareholder value.
of Plantsbrook Group plc and Great management team that guided the Southern Group plc by SCI in 1994, Group through the leveraged buy-out he was appointed CEO of SCI UK.
He was He subsequently led a management appointed Chief Executive in 2009. buy out of the Group from SCI in He has a law degree from Birmingham 2002.
The Company was then floated University, is a solicitor and also on the Stock Exchange in 2004.
Peter holds an MBA from Warwick became NonExecutive Chairman in University.
Before entering the funeral service industry, Peter spent External appointments: 25 years in retailing, holding senior Non-Executive Director of positions in Debenhams, Burtons CVS Group plc.
Peter was appointed Chairman of the Steering Committee of the French funerals group OGF, SA in January 2014.
Steve Whittern Andrew Davies Richard Portman Finance Director Operations Director Corporate Services Director Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2004 Appointed to the Board: 2006 Background and experience: Background and experience: Background and experience: Steve joined the Group in 1999 from Andrew joined his family owned Richard joined SCI from HSBC KPMG.
He was appointed Finance business in 1979 and worked as Chief Accountant in 1999.
Director at the beginning of 2009, as a funeral director and embalmer Following the IPO, Richard was having spent the previous two years until the business was sold to Great appointed as Company Secretary as Financial Controller, being Southern Group in 1993.
He then and became Corporate Services responsible for the Group's finance held various management positions Director in 2006.
Richard is an FCA, function.
Steve led the further debt within Great Southern Group and holds a geography degree from issue and Return of Value in 2010 following the acquisition by SCI Birmingham University, is a Fellow and 2013, and the debt and equity in 1994, held senior operational of the Chartered Management funding for the Yew Acquisition.
Steve positions within SCI UK.
He became Institute and is a Member of the is an FCA and holds a mathematics Operations Director in 2001 and was Investor Relations Society.
a member of the management buy out team in 2002.
External appointments: External appointments: None.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information D Diig gn niit ty y p pllc c 2 49 5 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 013 13 a n r a n r Alan McWalter Ishbel Macpherson Board Committee Key Senior Independent Director NonExecutive Director a Member of the Audit Committee n Member of the Nomination Committee Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2009 r Member of the Remuneration Committee Background and experience: Background and experience: Alan is a NonExecutive Chairman Ishbel is a NonExecutive Director of of Churchill China plc, Constantine Galliford Try plc, Senior Independent Group plc, Kornicis Group Limited, NonExecutive Director of Dechra a NonExecutive Director of Haygarth Pharmaceuticals plc, Senior Group Limited and Senior Independent Independent NonExecutive Director Director of SDL PLC.
Prior to these and Chairman of the Audit Committee roles Alan was Group Marketing of Bonmarche Holdings plc and Director of Marks and Spencer plc Chairman of Speedy Hire plc.
and before that held senior positions Prior to those roles she held senior with Kingfisher plc and Thomson positions with Barclays fide Zoete Consumer Electronics.
Wedd, Hoare Govett and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
a n r a n r Jane Ashcroft CBE Martin Pexton NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Appointed to the Board: 2012 Appointed to the Board: 2012 Background and experience: Background and experience: Jane is Chief Executive of Anchor, a Martin was previously Managing leading provider of services to older Director of LMS Capital plc and people and has held a number of prior to that an Executive Director senior positions since joining them of London Merchant Securities plc in 1999.
She is also NonExecutive and Personnel Director of the law Chair of Care England and was firm Allen & Overy.
He has also in the previously a NonExecutive Director past held a number of nonexecutive of Stroud & Swindon Building positions including roles with Society.
A graduate of Stirling Minerva plc and Inflexion plc as well University, she is a Fellow of the as a number with private companies.
Institute of Chartered Secretaries He has an MBA from the London & Administrators, a Member of the Business School.
Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, a Trustee of Silver Line See Audit Committee report: p. 50 to p. 52 and was created a CBE in the 2014 See Nomination Committee report: p. 53 New Years honours list.
See Remuneration report: p. 54 to p. 67
