Dignity plc 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Audit Committee report During 2013, the Committee continued to focus on its compliance role by ensuring effective controls and reviews are in place.
Dear Shareholder, Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the function: review the internal audit plan: all internal audit Audit Committee report for 2013. reports: and review and monitor managements responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal audit Membership and Process function: and The following Directors served on the Audit Committee Monitor and review the arrangements by which employees the Committee during 2013: me as Chairman, can, in confidence, raise concerns about any possible Alan McWalter Senior Independent Director, Jane improprieties in financial and other matters such as Ashcroft and Martin Pexton each of whom are independent compliance with the Bribery Act.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups corporate The Board is satisfied that I, as Chairman of the Committee, website at www.
have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
I report the Activities in 2013 Committees deliberations at the next Board meeting and the The key activities of the Committee during the period were: minutes of each meeting are made available to all members of the Board.
It reviewed the financial statements in the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts and the 2013 Interim Report.
As part of this The Committee met three times during 2013: in March prior review the Committee received reports from the external to the release of the Preliminary Announcement for 2012: auditors on their audit of that Annual Report and their review prior to the release of the Interim Announcement for 2013 of the interim results.
It also reviewed the Preliminary and in July: and again in December 2013.
The attendance records Interim Announcements made to the London Stock Exchange: of the members is shown on page 47.
The external auditors, At all three meetings it reviewed reports made by Internal  LLP PwC, the Chairman, the Chief Audit which included the review of progress against the plan Executive, the Finance Director and the Operations Director for the period, the results of principal audits and other have attended meetings by invitation.
significant findings, adequacy of managements responses and the timeliness of resolution of actions arising: Role The Committee works with the full Board to fulfil its oversight Review and agreement of the Internal and External Audit responsibilities.
Its primary functions are to: Plan for 2014: A six month review and formal adoption of the Risk Register.
Monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other This is part of a formal ongoing process of identifying, information provided to shareholders to ensure they represent evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the a clear and accurate assessment of the Groups position, Group.
The principal risks facing the Group are considered performance, strategy and prospects: on pages 32 and 33 of the Annual Report: Consider the financial statements and recommend to the Review the policy for non audit fees and review non audit work Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken provided by the external auditors: as a whole, is fair, balanced, and understandable: Formally review the going concern assumptions adopted in Review significant financial reporting issues and judgements the preparation of the 2012 and 2013 accounts: and contained in the financial statements: Review the performance of the external auditors.
Review the systems of accounting, internal control and risk management: The primary area of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2013 Annual Report related to the acquisition Monitor and review the significant risks identified by the of the Yew business.
The Yew Acquisition was a significant Group as well as the mitigation of those risks: transaction for the Group requiring judgements on fair values.
Maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups external The Committee considered how management had identified auditors and review the effectiveness and objectivity of the and fair valued the assets and liabilities acquired, including external audit process: intangible assets.
Fair values were supported wherever possible by independent valuations for example in respect of the properties acquired.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information D Diig gn niit ty y p pllc c 2 59 1 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 013 13 Other areas that have been discussed and considered by the The Audit Committees role Committee in relation to the 2013 Annual Report are: The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on Pensions We examined the assumptions used in the external audit.
This policy assigns responsibility for monitoring actuarial valuation for the defined benefit pension scheme objectivity, independence and compliance with ethical and which include the discount rate, the inflation rate and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee with day mortality.
We considered the consistency of the basis of to day responsibility assigned to the Finance Director, Steve calculation of the assumptions used with 2012, and agreed Whittern.
The Committee also retains responsibility for the with the judgements reached by management.
appointment and removal of the external auditors, who are currently PwC.
Provision for doubtful trade receivables We examined the risks relating to the trade receivables ledger and the adequacy The Audit Committee, on an annual basis, formally considers of provisions made against them.
Management presented the performance and independence of the external auditors.
their assessment of the risks, the mitigating actions taken The Committee was satisfied with both their performance and and the amounts provided.
We agreed with the judgements independence in 2013.
The Committee is confident that the reached by management.
objectivity and independence of the external auditors is not compromised by reason of their non audit work or any other Capital raising and return of value to shareholders The factors and has adopted more stringent controls to ensure Committee considered the appropriateness of the accounting that this independence will not be compromised in the future.
treatment adopted for the capital raising and return of A formal statement of independence from PwC has been value to shareholders in the year, including that relating received in respect of 2013. to professional fees.
Policy on non audit fees Annual goodwill and intangible asset impairment review With effect from 1 January 2014, the Group has adopted a We considered the judgements made in relation to the valuation more rigorous and comprehensive policy on the use of the methodology adopted by management and the model inputs external auditors for non audit work.
This is because the Group used, which include the approved business plan, long-term wishes to adopt best practice regarding the level of non audit growth rates and weighted average cost of capital.
We also fees and is also mindful of the feedback it received after the reviewed and approved the sensitivities used by management 2012 Annual Report was published and the voting at the 2013 which were consistent with 2012, as required by IAS 36.
AGM on the reappointment of PwC.
The Committee discussed the annual external audit plan in The policy states that non audit fees are limited to no more advance of the year end with the external auditors, which than 50 per cent of the annual audit fee unless there are addressed the planned audit approach to these key accounting exceptional circumstances, which are defined as: areas.
The Committee discussed the audit findings relating to The work necessitates the use of the auditor for key accounting matters at the conclusion of the audit.
regulatory reasons: and Their use represents a material time cost benefit to the The Committee holds a private session with the Lead Partner Group in conducting a transaction.
from our external auditor without management present at least twice a year.
In addition, I, as Chairman of the Audit This policy also precludes the use of the external auditors for Committee, met with the Lead Partner three times through the certain types of work.
All such work will be fully analysed in year to provide the opportunity for open communication and the Annual Report between tax compliance and advisory, non the free flow of any concerns relating both to the openness, statutory acquisition related services and statutory services.
transparency and general engagement of management with If non audit fees to be incurred with the external auditor are to the audit process as well as to understand PwCs assessment be in excess of 20 per cent of the audit fee, Audit Committee of key judgements as they arise.
approval will be required prior to the work being commenced and further disclosure of the works and the reasons for it being performed by the external auditors will be included in the following Annual Report.
The Audit Committee do not envisage that non audit fees payable to the external auditors will exceed 50 per cent in the future, other than in exceptional circumstances.
Dignity plc 52 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Audit Committee report continued As this policy was not effective until 1 January 2014, work The Group does not expect to conclude the tender process associated with the acquisition of Yew Holdings Limited and until after the AGM.
Consequently, given the obligation to retain the further issue of Secured Notes, was conducted by PwC, an auditor at all times, the AGM will include a resolution to as described below: reappoint PwC as external auditors.
Once the replacement is identified, PwC will resign and the Directors will use their powers to fill a casual vacancy.
Shareholders will be notified m of the replacement at the appropriate time.
Acquisition of Yew Holdings Limited This included tax, structuring and pensions advice 0.2 There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
However, under the terms of the Further issue of Secured Notes Secured Notes, Dignity 2002 Limited and certain of its This included tax accounting, pensions subsidiaries are only permitted to engage PwC, KPMG LLP, and structuring advice 0.8 Deloitte LLP or Ernst & Young LLP or their successor firms Tax advice relating to other acquisitions 0.1 as external auditors.
Other including certificates required to be produced Internal Audit by the auditors under the Groups loan documentation The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit team, which reports and the review of the Interim Report 0.1 to the Chief Executive and the Audit Committee.
It coordinates Total 1.2 the completion of self-assessment reports by operational management that assists in highlighting areas of control weakness or exposure.
Internal audit reviews are completed PwC completed this work due to their detailed knowledge on such areas together with selected areas of the head office and understanding of the business.
In the case of the Interim function and any area where a Director or the Audit Committee Report review and specific certificates, PwC was best placed requests a review.
During 2013 as in 2012, there were to complete this work as current auditors.
quarterly meetings between the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors formally to review and discuss Internal Audit partner rotation and tender of the external audit Audits work programme and findings.
In addition, regular Consistent with the Auditing Practices Board, PwC audit meetings between Internal Audit and the external auditors, partners serve for a maximum of five years on listed clients.
PwC, were held during the year to discuss and plan audit Consequently, this Annual Report represents the last year that work and to ensure a complementary approach.
The Head Matthew Mullins will be Dignitys audit partner.
He will be of Internal Audit provides reports to the Audit Committee at replaced in 2014. every meeting and met on a one to one basis with me, as the Chairman of the Audit Committee on three occasions The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with in the period.
the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
This conclusion was reached following a review Whistleblowing of the effectiveness of external audit as perceived by senior A formal process, established via the Committee, exists financial personnel and the Board.
The approach was consistent by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise with last year, involving a number of questions covering areas concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or such as the robustness of the audit process, the quality of other matters.
This ensures arrangements are in place for the delivery and the quality of people and service.
Scores continued proportionate and independent investigation of such matters to show a strong overall performance by PwC.
In addition, and appropriate follow-up action.
Whistleblowing reports are we also noted the results of the Audit Quality Review Teams formally reviewed on an annual basis by the Committee or part of the Financial Reporting Council assessment of the more frequently should the need arise.
effectiveness of PwC relative to its peers as well as PwCs own transparency report.
This Audit Committee report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 5 March 2014.
The Audit Committee has also kept under review the independence of PwC and has been satisfied at all times that any threats arising to their independence have been subject to appropriate safeguards.
The ratio of non audit to audit services Ishbel Macpherson has, however, been relatively high.
The Group has therefore Chairman of the Audit Committee decided to tender the role of external auditor with a view to making an appointment in time for the appointee to perform 5 March 2014 the review of the Groups 2014 interim results.
PwC will not take part in this tender, leaving them available to continue to provide the non audit services from which the Group has benefitted over recent years.
