Dignity plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors statement on corporate governance How the Board Functions The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors that meets regularly throughout the year.
Informal meetings are held between individual Directors as required.
The Board has adopted a formal Schedule of Matters Reserved to it.
The structure of the Board, together with explanations of responsibilities is shown on page 43.
The management of the Group on a day to day basis is delegated, via the Executive Directors, to an experienced senior and middle management team whose size and structure is commensurate with the complexity of the Groups activities.
Managers have the necessary skills and knowledge relevant to their areas of responsibility.
The remainder of the responsibilities vest with the Board however, certain capital expenditures and acquisition projects are delegated under the formally adopted Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board and the Expenditure Authorisation Policy.
All Directors are provided with the necessary papers in advance of the meetings to permit them to make informed decisions at those meetings.
The Board also considers employee issues and key appointments, including the role of Company Secretary.
The Board comprises eight Directors and the NonExecutive Chairman.
There are the same number of independent NonExecutive Directors and Executive Directors which the Board consider to be an appropriate and effective combination.
The Board also considers that four Executive Directors are sufficient to manage a Company of this size and organisational structure.
The four independent NonExecutive Directors who served for the period were: Jane Ashcroft, Ishbel Macpherson, Alan McWalter and Martin Pexton.
Biographical details for the NonExecutive Directors appear on pages 44 and 45.
Their role is to challenge constructively the management of the Group and help develop proposals on strategy.
The NonExecutive Directors are chosen for the their diversity of skills and experience.
Each NonExecutive Director is appointed for a fixed term of two years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
This term may then be renewed by mutual consent up to a maximum of nine years in accordance with the Code.
Appointments beyond six years are also subject to rigorous review prior to approval.
The NonExecutive appointment letters are available from the Company Secretary.
Alan McWalter is the Senior Independent Director of the Group.
His role is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and act as an intermediary for other Directors if needed and to be available to shareholders if necessary.
The Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors are required to, and have, formally confirmed to the Board that, mindful of their other commitments they have, and will have, sufficient time to devote to their responsibilities as Directors of the Company.
Jane Ashcroft, Ishbel Macpherson, Alan McWalter, and Martin Pexton are independent of management, as defined by the Code.
All Directors are able to take independent professional advice on the furtherance of their duties if necessary at the Groups expense.
They also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also the Corporate Services Director and, where it is considered appropriate and necessary, training is made available to Directors.
All Directors receive annual training and updates on the duties and responsibilities of being a Director of a listed company.
This covers legal, accounting and tax matters as required.
In addition any newly appointed director receives appropriate induction training.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of any legal action against its Directors.
The level of cover is currently 70 million.
The Directors have, during the period, formally reminded themselves of their duties as Directors under the Companies Act 2006 Section 171-177.
These duties include the need to avoid conflicts of interest Section 175.
No such conflicts of interest exist.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Board Appraisal In accordance with the requirements of the Code, and as mentioned in the 2012 Annual Report, an external evaluation of the Board and its Committees was completed during the period by Independent Audit Ltd.
This is a specialist company, entirely independent of the Group.
This was the first time an external evaluation was completed and, in accordance with the requirements of the Code, this will be completed on at least a three yearly basis going forward.
The evaluation included the circulation of a questionnaire to each Director to stimulate thinking prior to an interview with the external assessor.
The performance of individual Directors was considered as part of this process.
The results of the evaluation were then collated, discussed with the Chairman, a detailed report sent to all Directors followed by a presentation by Independent Audit Ltd to the full Board at their meeting in September 2013.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and its Committees operate very effectively and there were no significant areas of concern.
An action plan has been developed to consider and address the development points identified, which mainly relate to minor administrative matters.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information D Diig gn niit ty y p pllc c 2 49 7 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 013 13 Board and Committee Attendance Those attending and the frequency of Board and Committee meetings held during the year was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination i Main Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 8 3 4 2 Jane Ashcroft 8 3 4 2 ii Andrew Davies 8 2 ii ii Peter Hindley 8 3 4 2 ii ii ii Mike McCollum 8 3 1 1 Alan McWalter 8 3 4 2 Ishbel Macpherson 8 3 4 2 Martin Pexton 8 3 4 2 iii iii iii Richard Portman 8 3 4 2 ii Steve Whittern 8 3 i Only full Board meetings, of which there are usually six per annum, have been included in the attendance analysis together with two further meetings which were convened to deal with the acquisition of Yew Holdings Limited and the issue of further Secured Notes and the Return of Value to shareholders.
13 further meetings were held with a quorum of Directors to approve announcements, documents or the issue of shares under the LTIP and SAYE schemes.
ii In attendance by invitation of the respective Committee.
iii Richard Portman attended certain Committee meetings in his capacity as Company Secretary.
The Board believes that six full meetings per annum spread broadly equally across the year is the appropriate number required to exercise effective governance and control.
Further meetings, as occurred in 2013, are arranged if required.
When Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to make their views known to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
A process exists whereby such views will be included in the minutes of the meeting if necessary.
Three meetings between the Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors, without the Executive Directors being present were held during 2013.
These are usually scheduled to occur before each full Board meeting.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary, Richard Portman, is responsible for the preparation and distribution of all agendas, minutes and related Board and Committee papers.
As Corporate Services Director, he attends the Board meetings in his capacity as a Director of the Company but also acts as Secretary to those meetings.
He attends the Committee meetings in his capacity as Company Secretary and also as Secretary of those Committees when requested to do so by the Chairman of that Committee.
He is also responsible for ensuring all Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The Board is happy that the role of Company Secretary is undertaken by the Corporate Services Director as, whilst it might be considered more appropriate to have the roles separate, the Board believes it is the most cost effective and sensible way of filling the role particularly given the skills and knowledge of the Corporate Services Director.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board recognises it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A formal on going process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in place for the period and in place up to the date the Governance Report was signed and approved for the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
This process was in place at the date of approval of the Annual Report and is in accordance with the Code.
Internal controls are formally reviewed on an on going basis.
Internal Audit completes a programme of work each year that provides assurance that the internal controls have been tested are working effectively and also propose improvements where appropriate and necessary.
Coupled with this, the bi-annual review of the Risk Register provides a further formal review mechanism for considering and reviewing internal controls.
All such work is reported to and monitored by the Audit Committee who recommends approval to the full Board and is discussed in the Audit Committee Report on pages 50 to 52.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, as part of an on going process, has formally reviewed during the year and continues to keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee reviews risk management annually and receives reports from executive management regarding weaknesses in internal control, any losses arising out of weaknesses in internal control and progress in implementing revised procedures to improve and enhance internal control.
There have been no reports of system weaknesses that have resulted or would have resulted in a material misstatement or loss.
Dignity plc 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors statement on corporate governance continued The key procedures, which operated throughout the period, are as follows: Financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive system of internal budgeting and forecasting.
The Groups monthly actual results analysed by operating division are reported to the Board and significant variances to budget are investigated with revised forecasts prepared as necessary.
Operational management receives comprehensive management accounts covering their areas of responsibility, which forms the basis for the consolidated accounts: Financial controls The Executive Directors have defined appropriate and necessary financial controls and procedures to be employed by operational management.
Key controls over major business risks include reviews against budgets and forecasts, review against key performance indicators and exception reporting: Quality and integrity of personnel One of the Groups core values is integrity.
This is regarded as vital to the maintenance of the Groups system of internal financial control.
The Directors have put in place an organisational structure appropriate to the size and complexity of the Group with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority where the Board considers it necessary and appropriate: Internal audit The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit team, which reports to the Audit Committee and the Chief Executive.
It coordinates the completion of self-assessment reports by operational management that assists in highlighting areas of control weakness or exposure.
Internal audit reviews are completed on such areas, together with selected areas of the head office function and any area where a Director of the Audit Committee requests a review.
During 2013 as in 2012, there were quarterly meetings between the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors formally to review and discuss Internal Audits work programme and findings.
In addition, regular meetings between Internal Audit and the external auditors,  LLP, were held during the year to discuss and plan audit work and to ensure a complementary approach.
The Head of Internal Audit provides reports to the Audit Committee at every meeting: Procedures The Group has established and documented processes and procedures covering most parts of its operations, both client facing and in support departments.
These provide clear guidance on the correct or most appropriate course of action in various circumstances.
Procedures are supplemented by training where needs have been identified.
Both Internal Audit and a comprehensive management structure monitor the adherence to such processes and procedures: and Risk assessment Management has responsibility for the identification and evaluation of significant risks that might arise in their area of responsibility, together with the design of suitable internal controls.
This was in place throughout the accounting period and at the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Executive Directors and the wider management team regularly assess the risks.
A Risk Register is maintained, which is formally presented to and reviewed by the Audit Committee twice a year.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed on pages 32 and 33 of the Annual Report.
These procedures are designed to, amongst other things, help to provide assurance around the process of preparing consolidated financial statements and the financial reporting system.
An explanation of how the Group creates and preserves value and the strategy for delivering its objectives is included in the Operating review on pages 22 to 27.
Relationship with Shareholders The Group encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private shareholders and responds promptly to any queries received.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts to discuss information made public by the Group.
Where appropriate or if requested, such meetings could include either or both the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and the NonExecutive Directors are also available to meet separately with shareholders if necessary or requested to discuss any issues that they may have.
The Chairman is also available to discuss governance and strategy matters with the major shareholders.
The Corporate Services Director, in his additional role as Company Secretary, generally deals with queries from private shareholders.
The Board is as interested in their concerns as it is of institutional and corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to attend and put questions to the Board at the AGM on 5 June 2014.
At least 20 days notice will be given ahead of that meeting.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will receive an oral response whenever possible, otherwise a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the AGM.
Questions raised at any other time will normally receive a written response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have the opportunity to meet informally with all the Directors after the meeting has concluded.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information D Diig gn niit ty y p pllc c 2 49 9 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 013 13 The Directors consider that this Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model, risks and strategy.
Pages 4 to 33 provide an assessment of the Groups affairs.
The Annual Report and Accounts is made available to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Registered shareholders receive a Notice of Meeting and Form of Proxy, the latter document allowing a shareholder to vote in favour, or against or indicate an abstention on each separate resolution tabled at the AGM.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged are also announced to the London Stock Exchange LSE and placed on the Groups investor website, www.
co. uk, as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
The Interim Report is no longer published as a paper document but is available on the Groups investor website upon which users can also access the latest financial and corporate news.
All information reported to the market via regulatory information services also appears as soon as practicable on that website.
The Group has and will arrange visits to its funeral locations and crematoria, if requested by a shareholder, where it will not disrupt services to our clients.
Substantial shareholdings The Group has been notified of the following interests of three per cent or more of the issued share capital of the Company: As at 1 March 2014 As at 27 December 2013 Number of Percentage Number of Percentage Ordinary of issued Ordinary of issued Holder Shares share capital Shares share capital BAM & Oppenheimer Funds 5,420,088 10.16% 5,420,088 10.16% Montanaro Group 2,757,955 5.17% 2,757,955 5.17% Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited 2,671,533 5.00% 2,867,543 5.38% Kames Capital 2,219,243 4.16% 2,219,243 4.16% Tiger Global Management LLC 2,110,643 3.96% 2,110,643 3.96% By order of the Board Richard Portman Company Secretary 5 March 2014
