Governance 49 Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Rennocks, the Members of Committee: Chairman of the Company.
The Committee would be chaired Attendance by the Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning John Rennocks Chairman 3 3 the chairmanship of the Company.
The Committee comprises MarieLouise Clayton Appointed on 29 July 2013 1 1 the nonExecutive Directors.
Ian Grice Retired on 30 September 2013 2 2 John Matthews Retired on 30 September 2013 2 2 The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the John Nicholas Appointed on 29 July 2013 1 1 Committee.
Charles Packshaw Appointed on 29 July 2013 1 1 Board development The Committees primary focus for 2013 was the continued Key Duties development of the Board with the appointment of independent nonExecutive Directors for succession Full terms of reference are available on the Companys and Board balance.
The current development phase of the Board began in 2012 Review the composition and structure of the Board with the appointment of MarieLouise Clayton as a non and the Committees.
With John Matthews having completed ten years service and Ian Grice having Identify and nominate candidates to fill Board indicated his wish to retire from the Board, two new vacancies, after evaluating the existing balance of skills, independent nonExecutive Directors were appointed during knowledge and diversity on the Board and preparing a the year to maintain Board balance and structure.
description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Advisors The Committee appointed Norman Broadbent LLP, an Review the succession planning for the Board and external search agency in 2012, to assist with the identification senior executives and in doing so take account of of suitable candidates as nonExecutive Directors.
Norman experience, knowledge, skills and diversity.
Broadbent LLP has no other connection with the Company.
Review the Group Conflicts of Interest policy and Bruce Thompson, the Group Chief Executive Officer provides register and ensure there are no material conflicts advice to the Committee to help it make informed decisions.
Diversity The Boards policy on diversity is set on page 43.
Nomination Committee Agenda Appointment process 2013 As part of the appointments process, the Committee determined the selection criteria for each of the new Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience independent nonExecutive Directors.
The Committee on the Board and its diversity, including gender and worked with Norman Broadbent LLP who drew up a list of prepared a description of the role and capabilities for candidates from a range of industries and backgrounds for candidates for appointment as a nonExecutive Director.
initial appraisal by the Committee.
From this, a shortlist of suitable candidates that met the search and selection criteria, Retained Norman Broadbent to search for and was prepared and these candidates were interviewed by interview candidates.
members of the Nomination Committee.
Made recommendations to the Board for appointment Following these interviews, the Nomination Committee of nonExecutive Directors, after a rigorous interview recommended to the Board the appointments of John process of shortlisted candidates.
Nicholas and of Charles Packshaw as nonExecutive Directors.
Refreshed Board Committees in light of new Appointment terms appointments of nonExecutive Directors.
All three nonExecutive Directors have been appointed for an initial period of three years, subject to election by shareholders Reviewed Terms of Reference of the Committee.
at the first Annual General Meeting.
Thereafter, and subject to their individual and separate reelection, the appointments will be for a term of three years unless terminated earlier by, and at the discretion of, either party, upon three months notice.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
