Governance 45 Audit Committee Report Members of Committee: Attendance MarieLouise Clayton appointed on 13 November 6 6 2012 and as Chairman on 21 March 2013 Ian Grice retired on 30 September 2013 5 5 John Matthews retired as Chairman on 4 5 21 March 2013 and as member on 30 September 2013 John Nicholas appointed on 29 July 2013 3 3 Charles Packshaw appointed on 29 July 2013 3 3 John Rennocks resigned on 13 November 2012 Key Duties MarieLouise Clayton Full terms of reference are available on the Companys Chairman of the Audit Committee website.
Monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities Dear Shareholder relating to external financial reporting and similar I was delighted to be appointed Chairman of the Audit announcements, including Half Year and Annual Committee in March 2013 and would like to thank my financial statements, Interim Management Statements predecessor, John Matthews who has guided the Committee and trading updates.
In June 2013, John Nicholas and Charles Packshaw, both of whom have substantial experience of Reviews key accounting and auditing issues.
corporate financial reporting, joined the Committee and I look forward to their support and contribution to the Committees Reviews Groups internal control systems and risk oversight in the coming years.
In my first year as Chairman, I have devoted a large amount Recommends appointment and or reappointment of of time to gain a thorough understanding of the financial the external auditor and approves their terms of reporting processes in the Group and to reviewing the overall engagement.
control environment related to the Groups strategic, operational and financial activities.
As part of this exercise Reviews and monitors independence of the external I have been assisted particularly by the Group Finance Director auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
and Internal Auditor, but I have also met with local management in the larger business units to ensure Monitors policy on external auditor supplying I understand the way in which the Groups processes nonaudit services.
and controls are applied by the Groups businesses.
Monitors fraud reports and operation of the Companys I have also met separately with the Companys auditors during whistleblowing policy.
which meetings I have sought their views on the strength and depth of financial reporting and internal control processes Reviews effectiveness of the internal audit function and operating over the Groups activities.
I welcome Ed Hanson as makes recommendations to the Board.
the lead engagement audit partner this year and wish to thank his predecessor, Ian Waller who had reported on the Groups financial statements for the past five years.
I hope you will find this Report helpful in understanding the work of the Committee.
Set out over the following pages is my Report on the activities of the Committee during the year: the Committees agenda MarieLouise Clayton continues to grow each year and this year we have given 18 November 2013 further insight into the work of the Committee by expanding the Committees Report to explain how the Committee has dealt with the areas of financial reporting that require particularly careful review and judgement.
None of these areas have proved critical in preparing the Groups financial statements this year.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Diploma PLC 46 Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee The Committee is chaired by MarieLouise Clayton and Audit Committee Agenda 2013 comprises independent nonExecutive Directors.
The Chairman and John Nicholas are both qualified accountants, Reviews and agrees the scope of work to be undertaken who have recent and relevant financial experience.
by the external auditor and agrees the terms of engagement and fees to be paid for the external audit.
John Rennocks, the Chairman of the Company, resigned from the Audit Committee on 13 November 2012 in accordance Reviews the Annual Report & Accounts and receives with good governance practice, but continues to attend reports from the Group Finance Director and the meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
external auditor on the key accounting issues and areas of significant judgement.
Reviews the processes The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the necessary to ensure that the Board is able to confirm Committee.
The Executive Directors also attend Committee that the Annual Report & Accounts are fair, balanced meetings and the Internal Audit Manager also attended two and understandable.
The Committee met with the external auditor during the year, without the Executive Directors Reviews a report from the Group Finance Director on being present.
the controls in place to mitigate fraud risk.
Engagement of the external auditor Reviews the Interim Management Statements and The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the Trading Updates at meetings held in January, March, Groups and Companys financial statements.
The audit July and September.
includes the review and test of the systems of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to Invites the Internal Audit Manager to attend meetings in the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the September and January to review the results of the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
internal audit work for the current year and agree the scope and focus of internal audit work to be carried out Deloitte LLP has been the Companys auditor since their in the following year.
Deloitte LLP provides the Committee with relevant reports, reviews and advice throughout the year, Reviews the Half Year Announcement and receives as set out in their terms of engagement.
reports from the Group Finance Director and the external auditor on the key accounting issues and areas In accordance with UK regulations, the Companys auditor of significant judgement.
adheres to a rotation policy based on best practice and a new Group lead engagement partner was appointed this year in Assesses the effectiveness of the external audit at the place of the previous lead engagement partner who had meeting in May.
completed a term of five years in that role.
Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal During the year the performance of the auditor was formally control and risk management procedures and makes assessed by the Committee in conjunction with the senior recommendations to the Board on areas for management team.
In making this assessment the Committee improvement.
focussed on the robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery of audit services and the quality of the auditors staff.
The Reviews the effectiveness and independence of Committee is satisfied that the audit continues to be effective the external auditor, the audit plan process, and and provides an appropriate independent challenge of the recommends the reappointment of the Groups Groups senior management.
The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte continues to provide Reviews the Groups policy on nonaudit services an effective audit and considers that the cost and disruption which may be provided by the auditor and the Groups that would be caused to the Groups businesses by an audit policy on whistleblowing.
tender process, outweighs any benefit to shareholders from a more frequent change in the Companys auditor.
However the Reviews the Audit Committee Terms of Reference.
Committee remains supportive of the Codes requirement that the audit should be put out to tender at least once in every tenyears.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance 47 Financial reporting and significant judgements Risk management and internal control As part of their monitoring of the integrity of the financial The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness statements, the Committee reviews whether suitable accounting of the Groups system of internal control.
The system of policies have been adopted, whether management has made internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate appropriate estimates and judgements and also seeks support the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only from the external auditors to assess them.
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The main issues reviewed in the year ended 30 September 2013 are set out below: The Board has established a clear organisational structure Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets: with defined authority levels.
The daytoday running of the The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill Groups business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the and the assumptions underlying the impairment review.
The Executive Directors visit each operating unit judgements in relation to goodwill impairment largely relate on a regular basis and meet with both operational and finance to the assumptions underlying the calculations of the value in management and staff.
use of the business being tested for impairment, primarily the achievability of long term business plans and macroeconomic Key financial and operational measures are reported on a assumptions underlying the valuation process.
This area is a weekly and or monthly basis and are measured against both prime source of audit focus and accordingly the external budget and half year reforecasts which have been approved auditor provided detailed reporting to the Committee.
and reviewed by the Board.
On an annual basis, each business Valuation of inventory: unit is required to prepare a risk assessment process on the key The Committee reviewed the Report of the Group Finance strategic, operational, financial and accounting risks to identify, Director that set out the gross balances by businesses, evaluate and manage the significant risks to the Groups together with any related provision against the carrying value.
They include common definitions of risk and ensure, The Committee reviewed the bases used to value and confirm as far as practicable, that the policies and procedures existence of inventory held across the Group: they also established by the Board are appropriate to manage the considered the appropriateness of provisions held against the perceived risks to the Group.
These assessments are carrying value of inventory, having regard to the age and supplemented by a detailed evaluation of the key financial volumes of inventory, relative to expected usage.
These controls of the business units which are critically reviewed matters were also discussed with the Group Finance Director by the Groups Internal Audit Manager.
The Committee will and the auditor.
annually review the results of these assessments and the Recoverability of accounts receivable: key strategic and operating risks of the Group identified by The Committee reviewed the Report of the Group Finance management.
During the year, the risk assessment process Director that set out the gross balances by businesses, revealed no significant risks of which the Board was not together with any related provision against the carrying value.
The Committee reviewed the report of work done by the external auditor on trade receivables to confirm both existence The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to and recoverability: they also considered the appropriateness have the most significant impact on the Groups long term of provisions held against the carrying value of accounts performance are set out on pages 32 to 35. receivables having regard to the age and creditworthiness of the customer.
These matters were also discussed with the The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Group Finance Director and the auditor.
risk management and internal control systems.
Taking into account the processes that have been designed and The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set implemented for 2013, the Board, with the advice of the out above had been fully and adequately addressed by the Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the risk Executive Directors, appropriately tested and reviewed by the management and internal control systems for the period from external auditor and that the disclosures made in the Annual 1 October 2012 to the date of this Report and is satisfied that Report & Accounts were appropriate.
the Group has in place effective risk management and internal control systems.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Diploma PLC 48 Audit Committee Report continued Internal audit Taxation services are generally not provided by the auditor: The Groups finance department includes a separate internal a separate firm is retained to provide tax advice, including any audit function.
This is managed by a qualified internal auditor assistance with tax compliance matters generally.
However who is based in Toronto, Canada.
On larger audit during the year the tax department of Deloitte LLP provided engagements the Internal Audit Manager is assisted by a advice to the Company in connection with the application member of the Group finance team at Diploma PLC.
of new legislation relating to Controlled Foreign Companies.
This advice has resulted in a small assignment which will be A full programme of internal audit visits has been completed concluded in the 2014 financial year.
The Committee remains during the year.
The scope of work carried out by internal audit satisfied that this assignment, which largely arose from generally focuses on the internal financial controls and risk Deloittes detailed knowledge of the Groups tax affairs, is management procedures operating within each business.
In sufficiently ringfenced so as not to conflict with the duties January, the Internal Audit Manager presents his audit plan for of the auditor.
the year to the Committee for their approval.
Written reports are prepared on the results of each visit which sets out weaknesses In other circumstances, proposed assignments are put out identified during the work, together with recommendations to to tender and decisions to award work taken on the basis of improve the control environment.
These reports are reviewed demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
and discussed with the Executive Directors.
The Committee assures itself of the auditors independence At the conclusion of the financial year, the Internal Audit by receiving regular reports which provides details of any Manager reports to the Committee on the results of the assignments and related fees carried out by the auditor in audit work carried out in the year.
The Committee reviews addition to their normal audit work, and these are reviewed managements response to matters raised, including the time against the above guidelines.
taken to resolve such matters.
There were no significant weaknesses identified in the audits undertaken during the Details of the external auditors total fees, including nonaudit current year, but a number of recommendations were made to fees of 71,000 paid to Deloitte LLP during the year are set out improve internal review processes and procedures operating in note 27 to the financial statement.
over supplier masterfile data and credit card terminals.
AntiBribery and Whistleblowing The Committee continues to keep under review the need Diploma has a group wide antiBribery and Corruption policy for a more independent internal audit function in the Group.
to comply with the Bribery Act 2010 and it periodically reviews The Committee remains satisfied that the Groups system its procedures to ensure continued effective compliance in its of internal control is appropriate for a group of the size and businesses around the world.
nature of Diploma PLC and the Committees current view is that a separate formal independent internal audit function During the year, the Committee formally reviewed and is not appropriate to a group of Diplomas size.
updated the Groups Whistleblowing Policy, which provides the framework to encourage and give employees confidence Nonaudit fees to blow the whistle and report irregularities.
Employees are The Committee has an established a set of guidelines covering encouraged to raise concerns with designated individuals, the type of nonaudit work that can be assigned to the external including the Executive Directors, the Group Company auditor.
These guidelines were reviewed and updated during the Secretary or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
All such year and relate to advisory services where the auditors detailed reports will be investigated and reported to the Committee, knowledge of the Groups affairs means that they may be best together with details of corrective action taken.
The Groups placed to carry out such work.
This extends to, but is not Whistleblowing Policy is monitored by the Committee.
restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, regulatory reports, and on occasions, work in connection with disposals.
The external auditor may only provide such services where these do not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
Work in connection with acquisitions, including due diligence reviews, is generally not provided by the auditor, but is placed with other firms.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
