Diploma PLC 40 Corporate Governance Members of Board: Attendance Chairman John Rennocks 7 7 Independent nonExecutive Directors MarieLouise Clayton appointed 13 November 2012 7 7 Ian Grice retired 30 September 2013 6 6 John Matthews retired 30 September 2013 6 6 John Nicholas appointed 1 June 2013 3 3 Charles Packshaw appointed 1 June 2013 3 3 Executive Directors Iain Henderson 7 7 Nigel Lingwood 7 7 Bruce Thompson 7 7 Compliance with the Code John Rennocks Chairman Diploma PLC is required to state whether it has complied with the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in Dear Shareholder September 2012.
Set out on pages 41 to 65 is an I am pleased to present Diplomas report on Corporate explanation of how the Company has complied with the Governance on behalf of our Board.
We have developed and Main Principles of the Code.
expanded this report this year which I hope gives a clear and meaningful explanation of how the Board and its Committees The Board confirms that throughout the financial year, the discharge their governance duties and apply the principles of Company applied all of the Principles set out in sections good governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance A to E of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the Code Code.
The Board also confirms that it complies with all of the Provisions of the Code as at the The Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards of date of this Report.
However, as a result of the timing of corporate governance and that values and behaviours are appointments to the Board, there were two short periods consistent across the Group.
As I indicated in my earlier during the year where the Company did not comply with Reports to shareholders, in October 2011 on joining the FTSE three Provisions.
The explanations relating to these 250, I set clear objectives for the Board to develop its policies exceptions are set out on page 44. and processes to ensure that the Board would be able to meet the more stringent governance standards commensurate with The Companys auditor Deloitte LLP, are required to a Company that is now firmly established in the FTSE 250 review whether the above statement reflects the constituent group.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for their review by The appointment of John Nicholas and Charles Packshaw in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if June as independent nonExecutive Directors, following the it does not reflect such compliance.
appointment of MarieLouise Clayton earlier in the financial year, has allowed the Board to refresh its Committees and Following the developments over the past two years I am provides a firm foundation for continued oversight and pleased to report that at the date of this Report, the Company scrutiny of the Companys activities.
These appointments is able to comply fully with all of the principles and provisions follow the decision of John Matthews and Ian Grice to step enshrined in the Code.
down from the Board at 30 September 2013.
Finally, I would like to encourage all shareholders to find the We have also made solid improvements in the Board processes time to attend our AGM on 15 January 2014.
It provides an over the past two years and further developments in policies excellent opportunity to meet the Executive Directors and the and review processes are planned for the coming financial year, independent nonExecutive Directors on the Board whose including an external evaluation of the performance of the Committees reports are set out in the following pages of this Board.
Towards the end of next year we will also carry out a Report on Governance.
further formal review of the Groups strategy, following that carried out in October 2012.
This will be the first opportunity for John Rennocks the new members of the Board to contribute to the Groups 18 November 2013 future strategic direction, having had an opportunity to gain a thorough understanding of the Groups operations.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance 41 Framework of Corporate Governance The Board The Diploma PLC Board is accountable to the Companys Audit Committee shareholders for standards of governance across the Chaired by MarieLouise Clayton Groups businesses.
Certain strategic decisionmaking Number of meetings in the year: 6 powers and authorities of the Company are reserved as matters for the Board.
The principal matters reserved for Role of the Committee the Board are set out below.
Daytoday operational The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing decisions are managed by the Chief Executive Officer.
and monitoring the Companys financial statements, accounting processes, audit internal and external, Setting the overall strategic direction and oversight of internal control matters and also monitors issues the management of Diploma PLC.
relating to fraud and whistleblowing.
Nomination Committee Approval of the Group and Company financial Chaired by John Rennocks statements.
Number of meetings in the year: 3 Maintaining sound systems of internal controls and risk Role of the Committee management.
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Approval of major corporate transactions and Committees.
It identifies and nominates suitable commitments.
candidates to be appointed to the Board subject to Board approval and considers succession generally.
Succession planning and appointments to the Board and senior management remuneration.
Remuneration Committee Review of the Groups overall corporate governance Chaired by John Nicholas arrangements and reviewing the performance of the Number of meetings in the year: 7 Board and its Committees annually.
Role of the Committee Approval of the delegation of authority between the The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and the the framework and policy for the remuneration of the terms of reference of all Committees of the Board.
Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the nonExecutive Directors is determined by the Where appropriate, matters are delegated to a Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Committee Committeewhich will consider them in accordance with takes into account the business strategy of the Group its terms of reference.
Details of each Committees terms and how remuneration policy should reflect and support of reference are available on the Diploma PLC website at that strategy.
com Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Diploma PLC 42 Corporate Governance continued Leadership Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury policies, Board composition internal control, risk management and the appointment or The Board comprises a Chairman, three Executive Directors and removal of the Group Company Secretary.
The nonExecutive The Company has purchased insurance to cover its Directors Directors are appointed for specified terms and the details of and Officers against the costs of defending themselves in legal their respective appointments are set out in the Remuneration proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect Committee Report on page 57.
The biographical details of the of any damages resulting from those proceedings.
Board members are set out on pages 38 and 39.
The Company also indemnifies its Directors and Officers to During the year, the Board completed an exercise begun last the extent permitted by law.
Neither the insurance nor the year to refresh the composition of nonExecutive Directors on indemnity provides cover where the Director or Officer has the Board.
MarieLouise Clayton was appointed as an acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
independent nonExecutive Director on 13 November 2012 and on 1 June 2013, John Nicholas and Charles Packshaw To ensure that nonExecutive Directors can constructively joined the Board as independent nonExecutive Directors.
challenge and support proposals on strategy, the Board has Following these appointments, John Matthews, a long serving adopted a process of reviewing and approving the agreed director who had completed ten years of service and Ian Grice, strategy for the Company on a two three yearly basis.
In who had been a member of the Board for six years, retired October 2012, the Board undertook a strategy development from the Board.
Both John Matthews and Ian Grice served review at the Groups business in Swindon, UK.
The next throughout the year to enable smooth handovers of their strategy meeting is likely to be held later in 2014.
Committee chairmanship roles and retired as planned on 30 September 2013.
Meetings of the Board The Board has six scheduled meetings each year and meets The role of Senior Independent Director became vacant on more frequently as required.
It met on seven occasions during the retirement of John Matthews and on 15 November 2013 the year under review and attendance at these meetings is set John Nicholas was appointed Senior Independent Director.
Activities of the Board Each Director is required to attend all meetings of the Board or The Companys governance framework is set out on page 41 Committees of which they are a member.
In addition senior together with a summary of the formal terms of reference.
The management from across the Group and advisers attend core activities of the Board and its Committees are planned on some of the meetings for the discussion of specific items in an annual basis and this framework forms the basic structure greater depth.
within which the Board operates.
This exposure to the members of senior management from across the businesses helps enhance the Boards The Boards terms of reference also sets out the separate and understanding of the business, the implementation of strategy distinct roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
and the changing dynamics of the markets in which the business operates.
The Chairman is responsible for the overall leadership of the Board and the governance of the Board and ensures that the Effectiveness Directors have an understanding of the views of the Independent nonExecutive Directors Companys major shareholders.
The Chairman sets the The nonExecutive Directors are determined by the Board to Boards agenda and ensures that there is a healthy culture of be independent in character and judgement and there are no challenge and debate at Board and Committee meetings.
relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors judgement.
The Chairman, John The Board appoints the Chief Executive and monitors his Rennocks was considered independent by the Board both at performance in leading the Company and providing operational the time of his appointment as Director on 12 July 2002 and and performance management in delivering the agreed as Chairman on 7 January 2004.
In accordance with the strategy.
The Chief Executive is responsible for developing, for Code, the ongoing test of independence for the Chairman the Boards approval, appropriate values and standards to guide is not appropriate.
all activities undertaken by the Company and for maintaining good relationships and communications with investors.
All nonExecutive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments at appointment.
The ability of individual The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a matter Directors to allocate sufficient time to the discharge of their reserved for the Board, save that it delegates to the Chief responsibilities is considered as part of the Directors annual Executive the responsibility for such activities to a specified evaluation process, overseen by the Chairman.
Any issues level of authority.
Similarly, there are authority levels covering concerning the Chairmans time commitment are dealt with capital expenditure which can be exercised by the Chief by the Nomination Committee, chaired for this purpose by the Executive.
Beyond these levels of authority, projects are Senior Independent Director.
referred to the Board for approval.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance 43 Each nonExecutive Director is required to inform the Board of The Group Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board any changes to their other appointments.
on matters concerning governance and regulatory issues and ensures compliance with Board procedures.
All Directors have During the year the Chairman has also held meetings with the access to his advice and a procedure also exists for Directors nonExecutive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The The appointment of nonExecutive Directors are subject appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary to formal, rigorous and transparent procedures which are and his remuneration are matters for the Board as a whole.
described more fully in the Report from the Nomination Committee which is set out on page 49.
Board evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of effectiveness Diversity using specifically designed evaluation forms and under the The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains direction of the Chairman.
This exercise encompasses an talented people to deliver outstanding performance and evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, as further enhance the success of the Group.
In that culture, well as of the Committees and individuals.
Feedback on Board diversity across a range of criteria is valued, primarily in relation performance is presented by the Chairman to a meeting of to skills, knowledge and experience and also in other criteria the Board and actions and objectives are agreed for the such as gender and ethnicity.
The Board has considered following year.
setting objectives in relation to diversity, but does not believe that such objectives are appropriate at this juncture, given The Board intends to introduce periodic externally facilitated the relatively small Board.
The Board will however keep this evaluations of the Board, commencing with the 2014 evaluation.
matter under review, particularly in light of Board succession and development.
Reelection All Directors to the Board are subject to election by the Information and professional development shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following An induction programme is agreed for all new Directors aimed their appointment by the Board and in accordance with the at ensuring that they are able to develop an understanding and Code, all Directors will also stand for reelection annually at awareness of the Groups core processes, its people and the Annual General Meeting.
The nonExecutive Directors awareness of the businesses is further developed through periodic visits to the Conflicts of interest principal business locations and presentations to the Board by Directors are subject to a statutory duty under the Act to avoid senior management of the businesses.
a situation where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly could conflict, with the Following the new appointments to the Board this year, a Companys interests.
The Act allows directors of public comprehensive induction programme was set up which companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where included a visit by each of the new nonExecutive Directors to appropriate, where the Articles of Association contain a the major business units in each of the Groups Sectors where provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the Articles to they had an opportunity to meet with senior management in contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of these businesses.
Further meetings were held individually interest to avoid a breach of duty.
At the 2009 AGM, revised between each of the nonExecutive Directors and the Articles that contained such provisions were adopted.
Executive Directors and with the principal advisors to the Company.
Procedures adopted to deal with conflicts of interest continue to operate effectively and the Boards authorisation powers are The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive and being exercised properly in accordance with the Companys the Group Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring Articles of Association.
that Directors are supplied with information in a timely manner that is in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
In the normal course of business, the Chief Executive gives an oral report to the Board at each meeting and information is provided and reported through formal Board reports that include information on operational matters and strategic developments.
There are also reports on the performance of Group operations, financial performance relative to the budget, business development and investor relations.
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and where appropriate, briefings as necessary are provided on various elements of corporate governance and other regulatory issues.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Diploma PLC 44 Corporate Governance continued Accountability 20 working days prior to the meeting.
The Company proposes The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue &Accounts present a fair, balanced and understandable and for each resolution proxy appointment forms provide assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
shareholders with the option to vote in advance of the AGM.
The Board is also responsible for determining the nature and All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving Companys Annual General Meeting when the Chairman its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk and Chief Executive Officer give a statement on the Groups management and internal control systems.
They also review performance during the year, together with a statement on the effectiveness of these systems through the work of the current trading conditions.
The Chairman of the Board and Audit Committee as reported on in the Report of the Audit of the Remuneration and Audit Committees will normally be Committee on pages 45 to 48. available to answer questions at the meeting.
The key risks which the Board has focused on this year are set The Board has resolved, in line with emerging best practice, out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on page 32 to conduct a poll on each resolution proposed at the Annual to 35.
The Board is committed to providing shareholders with General Meeting.
The results of the Annual General Meeting a clear assessment of the Companys financial position and resolutions, including details of votes cast, are published on prospects.
This is achieved through this Annual Report & the Companys website.
Accounts, the Annual Review and through other periodic financial statements and announcements.
Code noncompliance The Company complied with the Principles of the Code Relations with shareholders throughout the year, but for very short periods of time, did not The Company has a welldeveloped investor relations comply with the following Provisions of the Code during the programme managed by the Chief Executive and Group year under review.
In each case this was attributable to the Finance Director.
Through this programme the Company timing of appointments: maintains regular contact with major shareholders to A.
4.1 There was no Senior Independent Director communicate clearly the Groups objectives and monitors appointed for the period from 30 September 2013 when movements in significant shareholdings.
John Matthews retired, until the appointment of John Nicholas on 15 November 2013.
The candidates for Senior During the past two years, these communications have been Independent Director were recently appointed as non enhanced by the introduction of Investor Days, both in the UK Executive Directors to the Board and this, together with the and in Canada which were well attended.
In addition Investor need to follow a fair and structured appointment process, Roadshows are now held each year in the US as well as in the meant that the appointment was delayed until early in the UK and formal investor presentations are made twice a year to new financial year.
groups of private client fund managers.
1.2 At least half the Board did not comprise independent nonExecutive Directors from 1 October Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer 2012 until the appointment of MarieLouise Clayton as and Group Finance Director through presentations made an independent nonExecutive Director on 13 November twice a year on the operating and financial performance of 2012.
The Board narrowly missed the end of the transition the Group and its longer term strategy.
The Chief Executive period permitted by the Code for smaller companies, under Officer and Group Finance Director generally deal with which the Company was previously allowed to have at least questions from individual shareholders.
All financial and two independent nonExecutive Directors.
trading announcements are published immediately on the C. 3.1 The Audit Committee did not comprise at least Companys website, including copies of the presentations three independent nonExecutive Directors for the period made to analysts and key shareholders.
1 October 2012 until the appointment of MarieLouise Clayton to the Committee on 13 November 2012.
The The nonExecutive Directors are given regular updates as to Board narrowly missed the end of the transition period the views of institutional shareholders and an independent permitted by the Code for smaller companies, under insight is sought through research carried out twice a year which the Audit Committee was previously allowed to by the Companys advisors, focused on both investors have at least two independent nonexecutive directors and analysts.
with the Company Chairman being a member of the Audit Committee.
Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of key issues and the opportunity for shareholders to meet the As set out above in this Report, the Company was in full Chairman or Senior Independent Director, separately from compliance with all of the Principles and Provisions of the the Executive Directors, is available on request.
Code at the date of this Report.
Electronic communications to shareholders include the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is sent at least Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
