Directors Report Corporate Governance Statutory Information The directors present their report and audited financial Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of statements for the year ended 30 April 2013.
Association, the Companies Act and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the The Business Review, which provides a comprehensive Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise review of the development, performance and future all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the prospects of the Groups operations for the year ended management of the business of the Company or not.
The 30 April 2013, includes the following: matters reserved for the Board are detailed in a specific schedule, which is reviewed annually and details are provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
Business Overview, including principal activities: Strategic Summary: Directors responsibilities Performance Review, including the Corporate The directors responsibilities for the financial statements Responsibility Report: and contained within this Annual Report and the directors confirmations required under Disclosure and Transparency Corporate Governance.
These sections are incorporated by reference and are deemed to form part of this report.
Employees and employee share schemes A commentary on the Groups role as an employer is included in the Corporate Responsibility Report and details Changes in composition of the Group of employee involvement through share participation are On 10 August 2012 the Company announced that it had contained in the Remuneration Report.
acquired a further 22% stake in PIXmania S. A. S. bringing its shareholding to 99%.
Details of the Groups employee share plans and long-term incentive plans are contained in the Remuneration Report Directors and note 25 to the Financial Statements.
The names, biographies and dates of appointment of the Board of directors are provided on pages 27 and 28.
Share capital The Companys only class of share is ordinary shares.
In line with best practice and the UK Corporate The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, Governance Code the Code, all directors will retire and together with any shares issued during the period, is set out offer themselves for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
The in note 23 to the Financial Statements.
The voting rights of Remuneration Report in sections II f and III provides all Dixons Retail plc shares are identical, with each share details of applicable service agreements for executive carrying the right to one vote.
Dixons Retail plc holds no directors and terms of appointment for non-executive shares in Treasury and did not make any market purchases directors.
The Board is satisfied that each director of its own shares during the period under review.
is qualified for reappointment by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
Restrictions on transfer of securities of the Company During the year, no director had any material interest in There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding any contract of significance to the Groups business.
Their nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by interests, including those of any connected persons, in the the general provisions of the Articles of Association and shares of the Company are outlined in sections IV, IX prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any and X of the Remuneration Report.
agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on With regard to the appointment and replacement of voting rights.
directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Act and related No person has any special rights of control over the legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by Companys share capital and all issued shares are special resolution of the shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association Change of control significant agreements and to the extent permitted by law, the Company may The Company does not have any significant agreements indemnify its directors out of its own funds to cover which contain change of control clauses other than for its liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Further details are disclosed in note 17 to the holds Directors and Officers Liability Insurance cover for Financial Statements.
any claim brought against directors or officers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions.
The insurance In addition, provisions under the rules of the Companys provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud share incentive schemes may cause options and awards or dishonesty.
granted under these schemes to vest and become exercisable in the event of a change of control.
Dixons Retail plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Corporate Governance Statutory Information continued Major shareholders Going concern As at 19 June 2013, the Company has been notified in In considering the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the directors have considered accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the the Companys objectives and strategy, the risks and voting rights of the Company: uncertainties to achieving the objectives and the review of business performance, all of which are set out in the Direct Indirect No.
of shares % Business Overview, Strategic Summary and Performance Review sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The UBS Global Direct and Groups liquidity and funding arrangements are described in Asset Management Indirect 400,763,593 11.10 notes 17 and 22 f to the Financial Statements as well as in the Schroders Plc Indirect 334,607,256 9.23 funding section of the Performance Review and the directors Standard Life Direct and consider that the Group has significant covenant and liquidity Investments Ltd Indirect 289,695,534 7.98 headroom in its borrowing facilities for the foreseeable future.
Majedie Asset Accordingly, after reviewing the Companys expenditure Management Ltd Indirect 198,905,419 5.50 commitments, current financial projections and expected Invesco Limited Indirect 178,859,553 4.94 future cash flows, together with the available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing facilities, the directors have Capital Research & Management Company Indirect 175,071,032 4.85 considered that adequate resources exist for the Company to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Letko, Brosseau & Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern Associates Inc.
Indirect 143,756,201 3.98 basis in preparing the financial statements.
Represents shareholdings on the date on which the notification of interest was made to the Company.
Post balance sheet events Particulars of any important events affecting the Group Issue of shares since 30 April 2013 are described in note 32 to the In accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, Financial Statements.
Shareholders can authorise the directors to allot shares in the Company up to one third of the issued share capital of Corporate governance compliance the Company.
Accordingly, at the 2012 AGM, shareholders The statement on compliance with the Financial Reporting approved a resolution to give the directors authority to allot Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 30,091,896. the reporting period is contained on page 32 of this report.
The directors have no present intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to obligations under employee Audit information share schemes.
This resolution remains valid until the So far as each person who is a director at the date of conclusion of this years AGM when a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority.
approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditor Related party transactions in connection with their report, of which the auditor is Details of related party transactions undertaken during the unaware.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each year are contained in note 31 to the Financial Statements.
director has taken all the steps that he she is obliged to take as a director in order to make himself herself aware Political and charitable donations of any relevant audit information and to establish that the The Group engages in various charitable activities as set auditor is aware of that information.
This information is out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 26. given and should be interpreted in accordance with the During the period under review, the Group made donations provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. of 308,000 2011 12 657,000 to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
Auditor Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to be At the 2012 AGM, the shareholders of the Company reappointed as auditor of the Company.
Upon the adopted a resolution authorising the Board to incur recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to political expenditure up to an aggregate amount not reappoint them as auditor and to authorise the directors exceeding 25,000 during 2012 13.
Notwithstanding to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the this, the Company made no political donations during the forthcoming AGM.
The Company has no present intention to make contributions to political parties Annual General Meeting but while the legislation is drafted with a wide definition of The AGM will be held on 5 September 2013 at Holiday political donations, it feels that it is in the best interests of Inn London Bloomsbury, Coram Street, Russell Square, shareholders that the directors are authorised to engage London, WC1N 1HT at 11.30am.
The Notice of Meeting, with people in the political arena on issues that are together with full details of the business to be conducted, important to the Company.
A resolution will therefore be are included as a separate document.
presented to the 2013 AGM to renew this authority.
Payment of suppliers It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with its Helen Grantham suppliers on a case by case basis prior to commencing Company Secretary trade with them.
Payments are made in accordance with 20 June 2013 these terms provided the supplier has complied with relevant contractual obligations.
Trade creditors as at 30 April 2013 represent 52 days of annual purchases made during the period 28 April 2012 54 days.
Dixons Retail plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
