Directors Report Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Chairmans Overview The significance of our role has been cemented by the Audit Committee publication of Guidance on Audit Committees by the Financial Main Objective: To assist the Board in fulfilling its Reporting Council FRC in September 2012.
I have worked corporate governance obligations relating to the Groups to ensure that we are compliant with this guidance.
financial reporting practices: internal control and risk management framework, and its internal and external This report sets out the key activities undertaken during the audit processes.
past financial year, including significant matters considered in relation to the financial statements, as well as ensuring Chairman: Jock Lennox, appointed Chairman 9 May 2012 the independence and effectiveness of the external Number of meetings: 4 auditors.
The Committee has reviewed risk management processes and supported the development of assurance Member Attendance and financial controls frameworks.
Current directors The assurance framework is a structured model to capture Jock Lennox 4 of 4 assurance activity across the Group.
This has helped guide Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 4 of 4 internal audit and control work this year, and will continue to Tim How 4 of 4 do so in future years as the model is refined.
We have also 1 Andrea Gisle Joosen 0 of 0 undertaken structured assessments of the Groups core Dharmash Mistry 4 of 4 financial controls to give a clear understanding of control effectiveness across finance functions.
Both initiatives Former directors provide clear focus for effective and efficient risk and 2 Andrew Lynch 1 of 1 control activities, at Group and business unit level, thereby 3 improving the control environment.
Rita Clifton 3 of 3 We have also refreshed our risk management approach this 1 Appointed 1 March 2013. year with the objective of embedding the processes within 2 Resigned 9 May 2012.
3 Resigned 6 September 2012. the day to day operations of each business unit and ensuring the executive directors challenge and then take ownership of the agreed risks and the actions to mitigate them.
As Committee membership and attendance part of this process, each business unit identifies key risks The Committee comprises exclusively non-executive to their businesses and these are then supplemented with directors in compliance with the Code.
The members are broader Group risks identified by the executive directors to set out in the table above along with their attendance for create the Group Risk Radar.
The risks are prioritised by the the year under review.
The biographical details of the executive directors and their assessment is then presented current members are set out on pages 27 and 28. to the Board.
These risks are debated, agreed and mitigating action validated.
Monitoring these agreed risks, along with The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Committee, identifying any emerging risks, takes place on an ongoing a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of basis at all levels of the business and progress on mitigating Scotland, meets the requirement for recent and relevant actions are tracked via their allocated owner.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends The implementation of these processes has led to a clearer all meetings.
understanding of the key risks facing the business and greater clarity on the risk appetite of the business unit The Committees deliberations are reported by its Chairman management.
In addition, it will enable closer oversight by to the following Board meeting and the minutes of each the Committee of the mitigation of key risks through the meeting are circulated to all members of the Board.
tracking of key risk indicators.
Over the coming year, the main areas of focus will be: Role The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight improving the financial control environment in PIXmania, responsibilities by acting independently from the by supporting local management in the development and executive directors in order to ensure that the interests of enhancement of processes and controls: shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial building on the framework developed to drive new policies reporting and internal control.
and obtain assurance through internal audit that the framework is functioning effectively: There is an annual schedule of items for each meeting to ensure the Committee fully covers its terms of reference, embedding our enhanced enterprise risk management including standing agenda items as follows: policies and activities through ongoing work with business unit management and tighter integration between update on corporate governance, risk management and management monitoring activities and risk management finance developments: procedures: and review accounting and control findings from the external undertaking an independent review of the effectiveness of audit and the status and progress on recommendations Internal Audit in line with good practice guidance.
arising from these: review progress against the Internal Audit plan and revised plans: Jock Lennox Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 June 2013 Dixons Retail plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued review Internal Audit reports and findings and status and progress of key internal financial control projects progress on action plans arising from Internal Audit reports: in PIXmania, including those relating to certain sales processes: review risk management papers: the lessons learnt from any incidents of fraud detected review and approval of audit fees: within the Group: review of fees paid to our auditor for non-audit services: the proposed financial control framework and its review tax matters: and subsequent assessment by Internal Audit: conduct special investigations and perform other activities the status of PCI Payment Card Industry Standard as appropriate.
compliance across all markets: and the proposed enhanced approach to risk management and These are supplemented by key matters arising through the outcome of the risk work with the respective business the course of the year.
The Committees terms of reference units and Group.
are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
A copy of the terms of reference, approved Compliance on 5 September 2012, is available on the Groups Monitoring compliance activity in relation to the terms of the corporate website.
Groups financing: and Attendance at meetings reports on the Anti-Bribery policy and procedures and The Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, compliance therewith.
Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Accountant and Head of Tax, Director of Internal Internal Audit Audit and Risk, Deputy Company Secretary and external The effectiveness of Internal Audit and the adequacy of its auditors were invited by the Chairman of the Committee to resources: and attend meetings during the year.
Other members of senior significant issues arising from Internal Audit reports.
management were also invited during the year if the subject under discussion fell within their remit.
External Audit Significant issues and areas of judgement arising from Each time the Committee convenes, it meets with external reports from the external auditor which in addition to those auditors without the presence of management in order to matters referred to above under Financial Reporting and allow private discussion of any matters that the auditors Internal Control and Risk Management, included revenue wish to raise without management or the Company Secretary being present.
Occasionally a private discussion recognition relating to customer support agreements, is also held between the members of the Committee, the defined benefit pension assumptions, taxation, nonexternal auditors and the Director of Internal Audit and Risk underlying items and an assessment of the quality of without management present.
earnings reported: the effectiveness of the external auditors through a survey In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the of key stakeholders and consideration of their responses: services of the Group Finance Director and the Company Secretary and General Counsel, as well as access to the annual audit fee, which is set out in note 3 to the external professional advice.
Financial Statements, with due regard to the balance between audit and non-audit fees and the policy for approval of non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditor: and Key matters considered During the period, the Committee reviewed the following: fees paid to the auditor for non-audit services.
Financial Reporting Other Matters The carrying value of certain assets in the Group, in The Audit Committees performance and terms particular goodwill and acquired intangible assets: of reference: the classification of items between underlying the Company's whistleblowing policy and its and non-underlying: implementation across the international jurisdictions of the Group: and tax matters: and the expenses of all Board members.
the integrity and sufficiency of information disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts in order to ensure that Policy on the use of the external auditor for sufficient information has been included for an adequate non-audit services understanding for shareholders and other stakeholders The Audit Committee has approved a policy for the use about the performance, business model and strategy of of our external auditor for non-audit purposes.
allows the auditor to perform other services for specific reasons such as where: Internal Control and Risk Management Progress against the improvement plan in place for it is a statutory or contractual requirement: or PIXmania following the identification in prior years of historical under-estimated purchase accruals.
Progress significant historical knowledge may place the auditor in against this plan was being closely monitored by Group the best position to perform such non-audit work.
The Committee received regular updates throughout the period under review: Dixons Retail plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued The auditor is specifically not permitted to undertake the following services: bookkeeping or similar services related to the preparation of financial statements: internal audit: and any other assignment which would place the auditor in a position of conflict with its duties as external auditor.
To ensure this policy is applied appropriately, the Committee monitors quarterly all fees paid to the external auditor.
All fees paid to the auditor in respect of non-audit work above 50,000 require pre-approval of the Audit Committee Chairman.
These are then reported back to the Committee as part of the Committee agenda.
During 2012 13 the auditor has performed non-audit work which has been almost entirely in relation to statutory or contractually mandated areas.
For example, providing an interim review report on the Groups Interim Statement, reporting work in capacity as auditor in relation to the Guaranteed Notes 2017 which were issued during the year and providing auditor opinions on tax returns where local legislation requires this.
The Committee is satisfied that the policy is conducive to retaining auditor independence and objectivity and is satisfied with the operation of the policy during the year.
The level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is set out in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
External Auditor Deloitte LLP have been the auditor of the Company for a number of years and the current lead partner has acted for the Company for four years.
The Audit Committee acknowledges the new requirements, which apply to the Group for the first time in 2013 14, whereby FTSE 350 companies should put out to tender the external audit every ten years.
The Committee is considering the most appropriate point to invite tenders for its audit, taking into account the FRCs transitional provisions and also the provisional findings of the Competition Commission in respect of the statutory audit services for large companies market inquiry.
The Committee, having considered the results of the annual performance review, the policies and procedures applied by the Group and the internal policies and representations of Deloitte LLP, remains satisfied with the auditors objectivity and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution for their reappointment be proposed at the AGM.
Dixons Retail plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
