Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report approval of major capital expenditure, material acquisitions The Board confirms that during the year ended 30 April and divestments and material contracts: and 2013, and as at the date of this Annual Report and appointment and remuneration of the external auditor on Accounts, the Company has been in compliance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This report, together with the Statutory Information, the Audit Helen Grantham, Company Secretary and General Committee Report, the Nominations Committee Report, Counsel, acts as Secretary to the Board and its and the Remuneration Report, provides details of how the committees.
She is also responsible for ensuring that Company has applied the principles and complied with the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the provisions of the Code during the year.
Board on legal and corporate governance matters.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the The Board Company Secretary and may also take independent At 30 April 2013, the Board of Directors was made up of professional advice at the expense of the Company in nine members, comprising the Chairman, three executive furtherance of their duties.
The appointment and removal of directors and five non-executive directors.
There have been the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for no changes to the Board since this date.
reconfirmed that all the non-executive directors continue to be considered as independent and each brings their Board attendance own senior level of experience.
Andrea Gisle Joosen was The Board held a separate strategy day in addition to considered to be independent in character and judgement meeting on seven occasions during the year under review, upon joining the Board.
Upon appointment, the Chairman all of which were scheduled Board meetings.
was also deemed to be independent.
Member Attendance The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive is formally defined, set out in Current directors writing and reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
John Allan 7 of 7 The Chairman is responsible for the overall operation, Sebastian James 7 of 7 leadership and governance of the Board.
The Group Chief Katie Bickerstaffe 7 of 7 Executive is responsible for the executive management Humphrey Singer 7 of 7 of the Groups business and for implementing the Groups 1 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 6 of 7 strategic and commercial objectives.
2 Andrea Gisle Joosen 1 of 1 Andrew Lynch performed the role of Senior Independent Tim How 7 of 7 Director until his resignation from the Board on 9 May Jock Lennox 7 of 7 2012, at which point Tim How took over the role.
As such, Dharmash Mistry 7 of 7 Tim How now supports the Chairman and is available for approach or representation from shareholders who feel Former directors they are unable to raise issues with the Chairman directly.
3 Rita Clifton 4 of 4 The Senior Independent Director also discusses, on an 4 Andrew Lynch 1 of 1 individual basis, the performance of the Chairman with each director and provides feedback on these discussions 1 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen was unable to attend one Board meeting due a to the Chairman.
The role of the Senior Independent prior commitment.
Director is clearly defined, set out in writing and reviewed 2 Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2013. regularly by the Board.
3 Resigned from the Board on 6 September 2012.
4 Resigned from the Board on 9 May 2012.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This schedule was reviewed during the year and includes, but is not limited to: Committees of the Board The Board has three main committees: Audit, Nominations approval of Group strategy and the annual budget: and Remuneration.
Individual reports on the work of these Committees and their membership and attendance are set overseeing the Groups operations and review of out separately in this Annual Report and Accounts.
its performance: changes relating to the Companys share capital or Dixons Retail is dependent on its senior management to corporate structure: operate its business and execute its strategies.
The Group has a decentralised management structure with many communications with shareholders including approval high-level management decisions delegated to divisional of the Interim Statement, Annual Report and Accounts or country management.
These regional managers report including the review of critical accounting policies and back to the Board and the Managing Directors of the judgements and assessment of going concern and other Groups major operating businesses present a business major public announcements: review to the Board on an annual basis.
maintenance and monitoring the Groups system of internal control and risk management: Dixons Retail plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board information and development of Board papers and ensuring that Board meetings The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors were as effective as possible and to obtain any further are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and views or guidance.
A summary of these discussions was that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
circulated initially to the Chairman and then to the Board The quality and supply of information provided to the Board and actions discussed at a Board meeting.
The Chairman is reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
This also arranged individual meetings with each Board year the Company has introduced the use of electronic board member to discuss their performance and the Senior papers, enabling the fast dissemination of quality information Independent Director led an evaluation of the performance in a safe and secure manner.
It has also developed of the Chairman.
guidelines on the form and content of board papers to In addition to the above process, each committee ensure that the information presented to the Board is clear, performed a self evaluation of its performance on the informative and concise.
The directors have the opportunity basis of a detailed questionnaire relating to the areas of to request further information if they feel it necessary.
responsibility for that particular committee and provided It is Board policy that wherever possible, a formal agenda feedback to the Board.
No major areas for action and written reports be issued to the directors on the were identified.
Wednesday of the week prior to the Board meeting, allowing time for detailed review before the meeting.
Authorisation of conflicts of interest Formal minutes of Board and Committee meetings are The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise prepared by the Company Secretary and approved by the and manage conflicts of interest which have operated Board Committees at the next meeting.
Potential conflicts are approved by the Board or by two independent directors where an The Chairman holds regular meetings with the authorisation is needed quickly then reported to the main non-executive directors without the executive directors Board at its next meeting for ratification.
A register of being present to discuss, amongst other matters, corporate directors conflicts is maintained and is reviewed by the strategy, business performance and the performance of the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
There is frequent contact between directors outside formal meetings to progress the Groups business Internal control and to promote open communication and team working.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, The Board holds meetings at a variety of the Groups whilst senior management is responsible and accountable business locations to help all Board members gain a for internal control and effective risk management at an deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides operational level.
senior management from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the The Board confirms that the Group has established and directors on more informal occasions.
All Board directors maintained a process for identifying, evaluating and are encouraged to attend external seminars relevant to managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this the retail industry and corporate governance matters in has been in place throughout the year ended 30 April 2013, order to refresh and update their knowledge and skills.
The up to the date of approval of the financial statements, and Chairman discusses any professional development needs that this process accords with the Turnbull guidance and with each director as part of the performance evaluation and the Code.
This process is designed to manage rather than actions are agreed following these discussions.
The Board eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives also receives bi-monthly updates on legal matters affecting and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, the Group and wider corporate governance best practice.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
New directors appointed to the Board receive a tailored Certain of the Boards responsibilities have been induction programme together with guidance and training delegated to the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the as appropriate to their level of previous experience.
Each effectiveness of the system of internal control including director is given the opportunity to meet with the members material financial, operational and compliance controls of senior management and store colleagues, and to visit and risk management for the year under review.
The Audit the Groups sites both in the UK and overseas in order Committee has ensured that any required remedial action to familiarise themselves with the Groups businesses, has or is being taken.
This has included regular reporting operations, systems and the markets in which they operate.
from PIXmania management together with attendance New directors are also encouraged to meet with the at the Audit Committee on the progress of key internal Groups auditors and other advisors.
financial control projects, including those relating to certain sales processes and resolving historical issues arising Board evaluation from weaknesses in controls over supplier receivables.
In 2011 12, in accordance with the Code, the Board Other areas of focus have included participation of undertook its first externally facilitated performance internal audit in key control projects in certain business evaluation which was conducted by Independent Board units, increased structure and resource applied by Group Evaluation, who had no other connection to the Company.
Finance and Internal Audit in carrying out formal business Given this recent and valuable external effectiveness review, unit balance sheet reviews, and development of financial the 2012 13 review was conducted internally involving: control frameworks, against which all business units are being assessed.
A meeting between the Company Secretary and Board Directors to review progress with the actions following the 2011 12 review largely focusing on the improvement Dixons Retail plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The system of internal control and the process for been established for business management across the managing risk include the following elements: Group to review key business risks twice per annum, to be followed by Board reviews.
Group Board Directors and discussion and approval by the Board of the Groups business management teams will be interviewed by the risk management team in alternate years, to refresh and strategic direction, plans and objectives, and the risks to develop the Radars.
achieving them: the Board and management committees meet regularly to There are clear processes for monitoring the system of monitor progress against the targets set out in the Groups internal control and reporting any significant corrective budget and strategic five year plan: control weaknesses, together with corrective action.
These include reports to the Audit Committee from assurance the defined levels of authority established by the providers, periodic certification from business units, reviews Board ensure that significant decisions are taken at an by Group and regional management, whistleblowing appropriate level, supported by a group wide delegation of facilities and independent assurance from both internal and authority process: external audit.
The latter of these are described in more each business function has established procedures and detail below.
controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the Groups assets: Internal audit policies, procedures and governance structures to The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business operations and has a group-wide mandate.
Its ensure capital investment is appropriately approved and work is driven by a risk-based methodology ensuring that subsequently monitored: the controls to mitigate the Groups key risks are audited policies, controls and procedures have been established on a regular basis.
Third parties may be engaged to over the security of data held on, and functionality provided support audit work as appropriate.
Its plans are approved by, the Groups business systems, including disaster by the Audit Committee, which also receives reports on its recovery arrangements: findings and progress of related actions at each meeting.
The department also works with the businesses to promote business continuity plan: and further develop effective risk management within their the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to operations.
The Director of Internal Audit and Risk attends enable them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of all Audit Committee meetings.
the roles assigned to them to minimise operational risk: the Group has implemented appropriate strategies to External auditor deal with each significant risk that has been identified.
The external auditor provides further independent These strategies include insurance, treasury policies observations of certain elements of the internal financial and operational framework, and common standards of controls as part of their audit of the financial statements.
internal control: Their findings are presented to the Audit Committee with updates on progress against the recommendations being all employees in subsidiaries within the Group have made throughout the year.
the opportunity to make confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing to a hotline run and Whistleblowing policy monitored by a third party: The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a policies and procedures covering financial reporting: confidential helpline operated by a third party.
This can be used to report, anonymously if so wished, on matters local management at each business unit and in those of concern to employees.
This can range from unethical functions of the Group requiring greater overview have behaviour, such as fraud, to practices that might endanger responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant the health of customers and colleagues.
risks to their business areas together with design of mitigating controls: and Bribery Act the Company Code of Ethics.
The Bribery Act came into force on 1 July 2011.
As a result, the Group reviewed and enhanced its policies and The Groups approach to managing risk has been reviewed procedures to help prevent individuals associated with and improved.
Risk and Opportunity Radars Radars have the Group from committing acts of bribery.
These policies been established for each business in the Group to identify, and procedures include training for individuals to ensure assess and monitor key risks, and the most significant of awareness of acts that might be construed as contravening these have been consolidated into a Group level Radar for the new regulations.
The Groups Anti-Bribery Policy is Board review.
Each risk is being monitored by an executive included on the Investors section of the corporate website.
owner and will be included on business unit leadership team agendas on a regular basis.
A more formal cycle has Dixons Retail plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Relations with shareholders The Company supports the initiatives set out in the Code and the Stewardship Code and actively encourages engagement with major institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
Effective two-way communication with institutional investors, brokers and analysts is established through regular presentations and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Investor Relations & Corporate Affairs Director.
The Chairman holds occasional meetings with major shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest including corporate strategy and governance.
Where appropriate, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee communicates with major shareholders to canvass opinion when deciding remuneration policy.
The Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors are also available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
Any issues of importance arising from these meetings are reported to the Board at the next meeting.
The Board also receives a regular investor relations report at each of its scheduled meetings, in addition to a detailed annual review of the perception of the Company amongst stakeholders.
The Company is committed to communication with all of its members, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders.
The Company reports formally to shareholders when its full year and half year results are published.
These results are posted on the investor section of the Companys corporate website.
Regular trading updates are also posted on the corporate website in addition to other external announcements and press releases made by the Company.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, formal notification of the Companys AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
The directors, including the respective chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, are available for questions formally during the AGM and informally afterwards, although unfortunately Dharmash Mistry was unable to attend the 2012 AGM due to family commitments.
The AGM of the Company is due to take place on 5 September 2013 at the Holiday Inn London - Bloomsbury, Coram Street, London WC1N 1HT.
Further details of the AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
John Allan Chairman 20 June 2013 Dixons Retail plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
