Directors Report Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Report Chairmans Overview Committee membership and attendance The Nominations Committee reports directly to the Board of The members of the Nominations Committee are shown the Company and is made up of a majority of non-executive in the table opposite along with their attendance for the directors as required by the UK Corporate Governance year under review.
At least half of the Board of Directors Code the Code.
are independent non-executive directors as required by the Code.
The Committee has dealt with two main priorities during the year under review: The biographical details of the members of the Committee are set out on pages 27 and 28.
The Company Secretary the departure of Rita Clifton and her replacement: and and General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committees deliberations are reported by its chairman to the following Board meeting and the minutes of each More information on how the Committee has addressed meeting are circulated to all members of the Board.
these issues are shown later in this report.
Role The principal duties of the Committee are to: John Allan Chairman of the Nominations Committee review the structure, size and composition of the 20 June 2013 Board and its committees and to recommend changes as necessary: review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the Nominations Committee continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively: Main Objective: To monitor the size and composition be responsible for the succession planning for Board of the Board and its Committees and ensure a formal, members and, in so doing, other senior management of rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment the organisation: of new directors and to plan for succession.
identify, evaluate and nominate candidates to fill vacancies on the Board: and Chairman: John Allan Number of Meetings: 4 make recommendations to the Board regarding the continuation in office of a director upon the expiry of any Member Attendance specified terms of appointment.
Current directors The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed John Allan 4 of 4 annually and are available on the Groups website.
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 3 of 4 Tim How 4 of 4 1 Key matters considered Andrea Gisle Joosen 1 of 1 During the year, the principal matters considered by the Jock Lennox 4 of 4 Committee were as follows: Dharmash Mistry 4 of 4 the recruitment of a new non-executive director to succeed Former directors 2 Rita Clifton and the subsequent appointment of Andrea Rita Clifton 2 of 2 Gisle Joosen: 3 Andrew Lynch 0 of 0 consideration of the succession planning process: 1 Appointed 1 March 2013. an evaluation of the size, composition and structure of the 2 Resigned 6 September 2012.
Board and its committees: and 3 Resigned 9 May 2012. a review of the Committees performance and terms of reference.
The Nominations Committee keeps itself up to date on best practice through a combination of private research and briefings by internal and external advisors on key developments relevant to the Company.
Board review The Board has been refreshed over the past few years as a number of long serving directors have stepped down.
On 9 May 2012, Andrew Lynch retired from the Board and was replaced by Jock Lennox as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Rita Clifton retired from the Board on 6 September 2012.
Dixons Retail plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Report continued Board tenure Diversity The chart below shows Board tenure in years: The Board recognises the importance of diversity, including, but not restricted to, gender diversity on the Board and in its senior management team and the important role that diversity plays in achieving the right mix of skills, Board Tenure years knowledge and experience in order to help the organisation 0 reach its potential.
11% 3 The Board continues to believe that individuals should 33% be appointed on merit.
We are committed to increasing boardroom and senior management diversity as suitable 1 candidates present themselves.
The Board has two 45% 2 directors 22% who are not from the UK believing that 11% international diversity is important in an international business.
Currently 22% two out of nine of the Companys Board are female as are 29% of the Groups senior management team.
Further information on this and the Companys monitoring of staff diversity is contained in the Appointments to the Board Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors which it followed in relation to the appointment of Andrea Gisle Re-election Joosen.
Appointments are made on merit, against objective All directors will seek election or re-election at the 2013 criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity and AGM.
Each of the directors are being unanimously the leadership needs of the Company.
recommended by the other members of the Board due to the directors individual experience and knowledge The Inzito partnership, an independent firm specialising and wider management and industry experience, in non-executive recruitment, assisted with the search.
continued effectiveness and commitment to their role.
The Potentially suitable candidates were selected against independent non-executive directors were re-affirmed by key requirements identified by the Board which included the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
a marketing background and knowledge of the Nordic consumer electronics sector.
A formal and objective The executive directors service contracts and nonprocess then took place resulting in Andrea Gisle Joosen executive directors letters of appointment are available for being recommended to the Board for appointment.
inspection by prior arrangement, during normal business hours, at the Companys registered office.
They will also be available for inspection at the venue, prior to the AGM, Terms of Reference details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee were reviewed during the year and re-approved.
Succession planning Succession planning was mentioned in the 2012 externally facilitated Board effectiveness review as an area for improvement and this is an area which the Committee will continue to focus on in 2013 14.
Dixons Retail plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
