40 Corporate governance For the year ended 31 October 2013 Chairmans introduction We are committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and we have established policies and procedures which are designed to facilitate good governance in a practical and workable way.
The reports on the following pages explain our governance arrangements in detail and describe how we have applied the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
We have expanded the information provided in our Audit Committee report to take account of the new Code requirements.
Considerable time and effort has also been spent during the year in the review of our remuneration policies and in ensuring that the Remuneration report provides the required level of disclosure.
We believe that succession planning is an important contributor to the long-term success of the business and our Nomination Committee carefully reviews succession plans.
Following this years review, new Peter Byrom arrangements have been put in place to ensure that senior managers Chairman have the opportunity to meet with and present to the Board.
This has the dual benefit of providing valuable experience to the individual managers and allowing the Board to assess their potential.
Peter Byrom Chairman Corporate governance compliance statement The Company fully supports the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2012 the Code.
Except as stated in the section on dialogue with shareholders, the Company has, throughout the year, been in compliance with the Code Provisions and has applied the principles set out in the Code.
An explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out in this report and in the reports of the Committees.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 41 Corporate governance Board Membership Key responsibilities w Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and w determining strategy threeExecutive Directors w setting controls and values w monitoring performance Executive Management Committee Audit Committee Membership Key responsibilities Membership Key responsibilities w three Executive Directors w implementing strategy set w three Non-Executive w the integrity of financial and six senior executives by Board Directors reporting w supervising operational w auditor arrangements performance w internal controls and risk management For more detailed information on the Audit Committee, please see page 45 Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Membership Key responsibilities Membership Key responsibilities w one Executive Director w monitoring risk w three Non-Executive w policy for remuneration of and six senior executives management policy and Directors Executive Directors process w implementation of w identifying significant risks remuneration policy For more detailed information on the Remuneration Committee, please see page 50 Nomination Committee Membership Key responsibilities w Chairman, three Nonw composition of the Board Executive Directors, w succession planning Group Managing Director w evaluation of Board effectiveness For more detailed information on the Nomination Committee, please see page 49 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 42 Corporate governance For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued Board overview Independence of Non-Executive Directors The aim of the Board is to promote the long-term success of the The Board has reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Company.
It is responsible for creating a framework of strategy Directors and concluded that they are independent.
The review took and controls within which the Group operates.
The Board takes into account the results of the performance evaluation together with account of the impact of its decisions not only on shareholders but the factors listed in the Code.
The only one of these terms relevant to also on a wider group of interested parties including employees the Group is the length of service of Phil Ruffles who has been on the and local communities.
The Board is responsible for monitoring Board since 2002.
Despite this length of service the Board has the implementation of strategy by the management team.
determined that no connection or relationship has arisen which affect Mr Ruffles independence.
A number of key items are specifically reserved for the Boards approval.
For example, budgets, major acquisitions and significant new The Board believes that to be judged independent each Director: product programmes.
Other matters are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
There are terms of w should be free from any relationship or connection which could reference for each of these Committees which specify their affect his ability to discharge his responsibilities impartially: and responsibilities which are available on the Companys website.
w should have demonstrated a scrupulously independent approach by conducting himself impartially in all matters relating to the Group Board membership and by challenging the views of management and other Board Information about the Directors is given on pages 38 and 39. members in a robust and constructive manner.
Attendance Time commitment The Non-Executive Directors are expected to spend approximately All Directors attended each Board meeting 20 days per year on Group business.
This includes attendance at Board and Committee meetings, preparation for the meetings and the The Chairman provision of the advice and assistance to the Group outside of the The role of the Chairman is to provide leadership to the Board and to Board and Committee meetings.
ensure that the Board and its Committees operate effectively.
He sets the agenda for Board meeting and chairs the meetings to facilitate Board meetings open and constructive debate.
There are regular scheduled Board and Committee meetings throughout the year and ad hoc meetings may be held as necessary.
This year The Managing Director there were nine Board meetings including a two-day strategy meeting.
The Managing Director is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business and for the development of strategy for approval by Some of the topics covered at the strategy meeting the Board.
w Sales effectiveness and growth programmes There is a formal document agreed by the Board setting out the w Digital printing division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Managing Director.
There is an annual work plan which lists the recurring items to be dealt with at each scheduled Board and Committee meeting.
Senior Independent Director The role of the Senior Independent Director is to act as a sounding Board papers board to the Chairman and to provide an additional point of contact The Directors receive detailed Board papers in advance of each for shareholders.
He acts as an intermediary for other Directors and is scheduled meeting.
These include routine reports on the performance responsible for the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
of the business and on any matters for Board decision.
Standard formats have been developed for the reports to make it easy to track Non-Executive Directors progress against targets and identify key facts.
In addition to written The Non-Executive Directors have a wide range of senior level, reports, presentations are also given to the Board.
Details of their background are given on page 39.
Their role is to provide an independent element to the Board and to constructively challenge management.
Topics of some of the presentations given to the Board during the year w TEN Media w Product management initiatives A detailed agenda is prepared for each meeting to make sure there is sufficient time allocated to deal with all issues.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors generally meet the evening before the Board meeting to discuss significant agenda items.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 43 Corporate governance Conflicts of interest Financial control The Company has adopted and followed a procedure under which The key internal financial controls that were in operation during the Directors must declare actual or potential conflicts of interest as they year were: arise.
The Board reviews potential conflict of interest situations arising from other posts held by Directors on an annual basis.
Financial reporting All operating units complete business plans and budgets for the year.
During the year authorisation has been given for potential conflicts Each month, the unit produces written reports in a defined format on arising as a consequence of other positions held by some Directors.
its performance against these plans and provides updated business No actual conflicts of interest arising in respect of specific forecasts.
The reports and forecasts are reviewed by the Executive arrangement or transaction have been declared to the Board.
Directors and significant issues are reported to the Board.
In determining whether to authorise conflicts of interest, only those Accounting policies and procedures Directors who have no interest in the matter may make the decision The Group has written accounting policies and procedures.
Local and they must act in good faith in the manner most likely to promote management are required to provide written confirmation of the Companys success.
compliance with the policies and procedures.
There is a formal internal audit process which seeks to verify that policies and procedures have Dialogue with shareholders been correctly applied and to confirm that there is an effective The Company actively seeks to enter into a dialogue with institutional process of management and control within the business.
Internal audits shareholders and holds regular meetings with them.
In order to are carried out by suitably qualified and experienced staff who have assist Non-Executive Directors to develop an understanding of the no current connection with the operation being audited.
Further views of major shareholders, reports are made of meetings with such information about the internal audit programme for the year is given in shareholders.
Sir Mark Wrightson, the Senior Independent Director the Audit Committee report on pages 45 to 48. has not attended meetings with a range of major shareholders as suggested by Code provision E. 1.1.
The Board considers that Security of the Groups computer systems Sir Mark has a good understanding of the issues and concerns The Group relies on financial and management information of major shareholders and such attendance was unnecessary.
processed by, and stored on, computer systems.
Controls and procedures have been established to endeavour to protect the Over the last 18 months the investor relations section of the security and integrity of data held on the system, with standby corporate website has been enhanced to ensure key information is arrangements in the event of failure of a major systems.
Tests are readily available for investors and potential investors.
The Executive conducted on an annual basis to assess the security of the systems.
Directors have undertaken an extended round of meetings with This year there has been a particular focus on cyber security investors both in the UK and abroad.
and a presentation was made to the full Board on this issue.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity for Treasury communication with private shareholders.
All the Directors The treasury function operates under guidelines approved attend the meeting and are available to answer questions.
by the Board and regular reports are made to the Board on Time is set aside after the formal business of the AGM for treasury activities.
shareholders to talk informally with the Directors.
Capital investment The Group has defined procedures for the review and control of AGM 2013 capital expenditure.
Expenditure requires different levels of approval according to the amount.
Significant expenditure requires full Board 2013 AGM held on 15 March 2013 at Dominos offices in Bar Hill, approval and all approval requests are presented in a defined format Cambridge to ensure that full justification is provided.
All resolutions passed High level of voting up to 85 per cent of the issued share capital All Directors were re-elected to the Board with at least 97 per cent of the votes cast in favour Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 44 Corporate governance For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued Operational controls The sub-committee reports to the executive management committee All Group business are required to operate in accordance with which in turn reports to the Board.
A formal risk management review detailed standards and procedures which cover all material aspects of of each subsidiary is conducted as part of the internal audit their operations.
Compliance with these standards is subject to programme.
Monthly reports to the Executive Directors submitted by assessment by internal and external review.
subsidiaries and business units cover risk control issues relevant to the particular subsidiary or business unit.
Information about significant risks There have been no significant control failures during the year.
faced by the Group and the risk management measures adopted is given in the Strategic Review on pages 22 to 25.
Compliance There is a Group policy on standards of conduct and business ethics Internal control and compliance statement and a separate anti-bribery policy.
Both documents are available on The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the the website.
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
They have established a system that is designed to provide reasonable There is a schedule of delegated authority designed to ensure that but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or all material transactions are considered at the appropriate level loss and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to within the Group and are subject to review by the head office legal achieve business objectives.
There is a continuing process for department.
All subsidiaries have access to local lawyers and the identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the head office legal department.
Group that has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The process is regularly Risk management reviewed by the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull There is a risk management sub-committee chaired by Andrew guidance.
Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control Herbert, the Group Finance Director which meets at least quarterly.
further into the operations of the business and to deal with any The role of the sub-committee is to: issues that come to the Boards attention.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
w promote effective identification and management of risk throughout the Group: w maintain a risk register identifying significant risks, risk control measures and responsibility for control measures: w review and confirm that all significant risks have been identified and suitable control measures adopted: w monitor implementation of risk control measures for all significant risks: and w ensure all subsidiaries operate an effective risk management process.
The risk management sub-committee receives presentation on topics selected by it.
Some of the topics considered by the sub-committee during the year w Cyber security w Intellectual Property w Quality systems A senior manager is given responsibility for devising and implementing control measures for each significant risk.
The manager is required to provide a quarterly report to the sub-committee on the status of implementation of control measures to manage that risk.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
