49 Corporate governance Nomination Committee report Succession planning Membership There is a detailed succession plan which is reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
In the plan all senior posts are graded Peter Byrom Chairman, Sir Mark Wrightson, Chris Brinsmead, according to the impact and likelihood of the post-holder leaving the Sir David Brown and Nigel Bond.
Where possible, suitable successors are identified together with the training and experience required by the successor to take Key responsibilities over the post.
w Board composition When no immediate successor is identified the plan includes details of w Succession planning for the Board and senior executive team interim arrangements and staff development schemes.
w Board and Committee evaluation The Company has a graduate recruitment programme and a development programme for high flyers to ensure there is a pool of The full terms of reference are available on the website talent available to meet the leadership needs of the Company over the www.
Board and Committee evaluation Attendance In 2012, an external facilitator, Independent Audit Limited, was used All Committee members attended each meeting.
to assist in the evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation identified two particular issues for further consideration: Board Composition The Committee keeps the membership of the Board under w the nature of the strategic review process review to ensure that it has the required combination of skills, knowledge and experience.
The Board fully appreciates the in response to this point the Board modified the approach taken benefits of diversity and is committed to equal opportunities for at its strategy review meeting to include more detailed all.
A copy of Dominos equal opportunities policy is available consideration of certain aspects of the business and the on the website www.
com macroeconomic environment in which it operates.
w the mechanism for capturing messages and opinions from inside In selecting candidates for Board appointments the Committee the business would assess the then current composition of the Board and take in response to this point revised arrangements were put in place this into account in devising the requirement specification for the for employee consultation meetings and regular employee recruitment.
Selection for Board appointments will be made on merit engagement surveys.
against this specification and not by reference to a prescribed quota.
This year the Nomination Committee carried out the evaluation of Last year the Committees terms of reference were amended to the Board and its Committees without external assistance.
The specifically require the Committee to consider diversity, including evaluation was based on a questionnaire covering a variety of matters gender, in evaluating the composition of the Board and in identifying and specifically tailored to the Company.
suitable candidates for Board appointments.
The appraisal process raised a concern about the opportunities for The posts of Group Operations Director, Group Technical executives below Board level to interact with the Board.
In response a Director, and Group Human Resources Director are held by programme of Board presentations by senior managers has been put women.
These are not main Board appointments but form in place.
part of the next tier of management below the Board.
The holders of these posts sit on the Executive Management The Chairman appraised the individual performance of the Directors Committee and comprise one third of its membership.
and the Non-Executive Directors met under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director to appraise the performance of There is an established procedure for the appointment of a new theChairman.
This requires that a detailed job specification is drawn up and a recruitment consultancy engaged to identify suitable Meetings candidates.
Candidates are assessed against the specification The Committee met once during the year.
and selected candidates are interviewed by members of the Nomination Committee, other Directors and senior managers.
The final appointment decision is made by the full Board.
Following appointment, a tailored induction programme will be put in place to ensure the new Director rapidly gains the necessary knowledge to discharge his or her duties.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
