45 Corporate governance Audit Committee report Chairmans introduction I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report describing our work during the past year.
We have considered the provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC Guidance on audit committees and modified our terms of reference to take account of them.
We have also expanded our report to provide more detail on the significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements and on how these issues were addressed.
We place considerable emphasis on ensuring that the audit is thoroughly planned and that the key areas of focus are identified.
We have scheduled an additional Committee meeting in September each year to ensure plenty of time is available to review the audit plan.
In order to save costs we have deferred our plans to have our environmental impact disclosures externally verified.
We remain committed to reducing any adverse impact which our operations have on the environment and in measuring and reporting on the Sir Mark Wrightson level of impact.
The report on pages 31 to 37 provides more detail.
Chairman of Audit Committee Stuart Henderson, the Deloitte engagement partner, will stand down in 2014 under the normal rotation arrangements.
The FRC recommends that this is a suitable point to put the audit out to tender so we will embark on the tendering process next year in order that the successful firm is in a position to conduct the audit in 2015.
Sir Mark Wrightson Audit Committee Chairman Membership Sir Mark Wrightson Chairman and member with financial experience, Chris Brinsmead and Sir David Brown.
Key responsibilities w the integrity of the financial statements w audit arrangements w review of internal controls and risk management The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on Dominos website www.
com Attendance All Committee members attended each meeting.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 46 Audit Committee report continued Audit planning The Committee considered the following significant issues: The Committee oversees the plans for the audit to ensure it is comprehensive, risk based and cost effective.
Issue Assessment Valuation of Management identified an impairment As in previous years, Deloitte drafted an initial audit plan in investment in TEN of 27.1 million as at 30 April 2013 conjunction with executive management and presented it for review Media to reduce the carrying value to 3.2 by the Committee.
The plan described the proposed scope of the million.
Although the impairment cannot work and the approach to be taken.
It also proposed the materiality be reversed, an updated valuation levels to be used based on forecast profit.
was required at the year-end.
The Committee dealt with this issue by In order to focus the audit work on the right areas the auditor reviewing information presented by identified particular risk issues based on its knowledge of the business executive management regarding TEN and operating environment, discussions with management and the half Media in conjunction with the report of year review.
As at 31 October 2013, the investment has been written down to nil.
In the past consideration of the audit plan has taken place at the meeting of the Audit Committee held in June.
Following an appraisal of the process it was decided to hold an additional Carrying value of The carrying value is based on judgements Audit Committee meeting in September to give more time goodwill and other about the achievability of business for preparation of the plan.
Devising the plan later in the intangibles plans.
The Committee addressed this year also facilitates the identification of significant risk issues.
matter by reviewing the assumptions The fee for the audit is also agreed at this meeting.
Key business plans are subject to Board approval.
Review of financial statements and audit findings This is also an area of focus for the The Committee reviewed the full and half year financial statements auditor and the Committee receives and the report of the auditors on these statements.
The Deloitte detailed reports from the auditor.
partner responsible for the Domino audit attends the Audit Committee meetings to present the reports and answer questions Valuation of The valuation of contingent consideration from Committee members.
Senior Deloitte staff who have had contingent requires assumptions to be made about day-to-day involvement in the conduct of the audit also attend.
consideration in the future profitability of the acquired respect of acquired businesses.
The Committee reviews these businesses assumptions.
This is also an area of focus for the auditor and the Committee receives detailed reports from the auditor.
Revenue recognition Management judgement has to be applied in some cases to determine the point at which revenue on a sale is recognised.
This is an area of focus for the audit and Deloitte carry out detailed testing and provided a detailed report on this issue to the Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the annual report and accounts to ensure that they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee considers whether the report and accounts contains sufficient information to enable shareholders to make this assessment.
It also considers whether the information is presented in a comprehensible and balanced manner and that sufficient prominence is given to critical issues.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 47 Corporate governance Assessment of auditor None of this work was carried out on a contingency fee basis.
The Committee is required to assess the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the external auditor and the The Committee considered the nature of the potential threat to objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process.
This assessment was independence posed by the provision of non-audit services and the carried out during the year on the basis of the Committees own safeguards applied.
It concluded that the non-audit work undertaken appraisal of the performance of the auditor and the views of the senior by the auditor did not impair independence.
management team as well as consideration of materials provided by the auditor.
The criteria used for this assessment remained unchanged Service Potential Safeguards applied from last year and were as follows: provided threat to independence w delivery of a thorough and efficient global audit in compliance with Tax Self-review Separate reviews by agreed plan and timescales: computation threat the audit partner and w provision of accurate, robust and perceptive advice on key for subsidiary tax audit partner have accounting and audit judgements, technical issues and best practice: entities been performed.
The w a high level of professionalism and technical expertise consistently teams performing the demonstrated by all audit staff: and computation and the w maintenance of continuity within the core audit team: and audit work were separate and independent w strict adherence to independence policies and other regulatory requirements.
Due diligence Self-interest Specific approval for this work for the threat work was obtained from Independence of auditor acquisition of the Audit Committee.
The The Committee monitors arrangements to ensure that the partner in Graph-Tech latest guidance indicates charge of the audit is changed every five years and that the relationship completed in that the level of fees between the auditor and management does not affect the auditors June 2012. charged would not be independence.
considered inappropriate by an informed third party.
The Committee is responsible for devising and maintaining a policy for the engagement of the auditor to provide non-audit services.
In order to seek to minimise any potential impairment of the During the year, the Committee introduced a formal policy requiring auditors independence, the Companys policy is that, except for tax that the recruitment of staff from the auditor to senior management compliance and acquisition due diligence work, the auditor will not positions within the Group would be subject to the prior approval of be engaged to provide non-audit services without the consent of the the Committee.
Recruitment of staff from the auditor to junior Committee.
The Committee considers that it is cost effective to use positions would be notified to the Committee.
the auditors for tax and due diligence work because of its expertise in these areas coupled with in-depth knowledge of the business.
Internal audit The Group has an established internal audit process where During the year Deloitte has provided the following non-audit trained finance staff, unconnected with the entity being audited, services: carry out internal audit according to defined procedures and an annual programme.
w audit related assurance services w taxation compliance services The Committee reviewed the internal audit programme for the year and received reports on progress.
The reports included a list of the w taxation advisory services outstanding points raised by the audits.
Summaries of internal audit w other services minor reports were circulated to all Committee members and full reports were available on request.
As a result of resource constraints, a Fees payable to Deloitte 000 reduced number of audits have been undertaken during the year and all audits completed have been self-audits.
These involved the Audit of the Companys annual accounts completion of a detailed self-audit questionnaire and a review by Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 400 telephone with the assigned auditors to follow-up on any issues Audit-related assurance services requiring clarification.
The Committee is reviewing the internal audit Taxation compliance services 300 Other taxation advisory services programme for the current year to ensure that available resources 200 Other services are deployed effectively.
100 The Group Financial Controller, who heads the internal audit function, has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Committee.
Under a Total Total non-audit fees audit fees change to the Committee terms of reference introduced last year the Group Financial Controller is required to meet with the Committee at least once a year without the Executive Directors being present.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 48 Audit Committee report continued Risk management review Meeting date Standing agenda Items The Committee reviewed the scope and effectiveness of systems to identify and address financial and non-financial risk.
The review December w Review full year preliminary statement and was based on the report of the Risk Management sub-committee draft announcement before consideration by which identified the key risks, risk control measures and the the Board.
implementation status of risk control measures.
The report was w Review financial controls, audit report and presented to the committee by the Finance Director who also chairs management response.
The report on pages 22 to w Review letter of representation before 25 provides further information on the risk management process.
Whistleblowing policy w Review statement on internal control and The Committee is responsible for monitoring the Group risk management for report and accounts whistleblowing policy.
Last year a dedicated e-mail address prior to approval by the Board.
was introduced to enable staff anywhere in the Group to w Review annual report and advise Board raise issues directly with head office.
E-mails sent to this whether it is fair, balanced and address are initially received by the Group HR Director and understandable and provides the the Company Secretary and investigated appropriately.
Any information necessary for the assessment of concerns raised are reported to the Audit Committee.
the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Meetings w Assess scope and effectiveness of systems The Committee met three times during the year and all Committee established by management to identify and members attended each meeting.
Representatives of the auditor manage risk.
including the partner responsible for the Domino audit also attended each meeting.
The Executive Directors are invited to attend the w Review policy on appointment of auditor to meetings but at two meetings the Committee arranged to speak provide non-audit services.
with the auditor without the Executive Directors being present w Review the effectiveness of the internal audit and on one occasion the Committee met with the Group Financial function and programme.
Ensure internal Controller without the Executive Directors being present.
audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the The following table lists the standing agenda items which have been Company.
dealt with by the Committee.
w Review the remit and work plans of the internal audit function.
Meeting date Standing agenda Items w Review procedures for detecting, monitoring June and managing the risk of fraud including the w Review half year financial statement before method by which staff can raise concerns.
w Committee to meet with auditor without w Committee to meet with auditor without Executive Directors being present.
w Review Audit Committee terms of reference and make recommendations to the Board.
Auditor tenure Deloitte has been the Companys auditor since 1993 and there September w Approve the audit proposal covering terms has been no tender held for audit services during that time.
of engagement of auditor, remuneration and The Committee considers that the auditors knowledge of the the nature and scope of the audit.
Groups business and systems gained through experience has significantly contributed to the rigour and effectiveness of the w Review and monitor the qualifications, audit process.
However, the Committee intends to comply expertise, resources and independence of fully with the FRC Audit Committees Guidance regarding the the external auditor and the objectivity and frequency of audit tender.
The current audit engagement partner effectiveness of the audit process.
steps down next year under the standard rotation process so the audit will be put out to tender next year so the successful firm will be in a position to undertake the audit in 2015.
Terms of reference The Committee keeps its terms of reference under review and makes recommendations for changes to the Board.
This year the terms of reference have been amended to reflect the new UK Corporate Governance Code and the new FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.
The full terms of references are available on Dominos website at www.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
