Corporate governance announced on 31 January 2014.
We continue with our search to Introduction from the Chairman find a replacement Chief Executive Officer and will report to you, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our corporate our shareholders, on this further as soon as the right candidate governance report for the financial year ended 29 December 2013. has been found.
As Chairman, it is my responsibility to ensure that the Group is governed and managed with transparency and in the best interests There has also been a large focus this year on reviewing the of stakeholders.
current policies and procedures that the Group has in place, particularly in relation to internal controls and risk, to ensure The purpose of this report is to provide a clear and accessible they are appropriate for a company of our size and reputation.
explanation of what governance means to Dominos in terms of its We have decided to establish an internal audit function in 2014 impact on decision making in the operation of our business and to to improve our performance and had  ensure as far as possible that the values you would expect from the prepare a report to scope how we want the function to operate.
Group are in place and adhered to.
This has been particularly relevant with our expansion into Europe As a Board and as a Group, we believe that corporate governance as we now have stores and teams in the United Kingdom, the is more than just a set of guidelines, rather it is a framework which Republic of Ireland, Germany and Switzerland which brings with underpins the core values for running the business in which we it not only greater regulation and compliance requirements from all believe.
the governance perspective but also the need to ensure that our processes and controls are implemented across the Group as a As many of you will have read, our Chief Executive Officer and whole.
This work will continue in 2014 as we look to implement an Chief Financial Officer announced their resignations from the Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system to enshrine controls company during the year ended 29 December 2013.
Lance Batchelor and processes into our workstreams.
leaves the Group in 2014 to join the over 50s insurer and travel agent, Saga, and Lee Ginsberg is due to retire with effect from the I am pleased to report that the Group continues to be in full 2014 AGM.
There has therefore been a large focus during the year compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and that on sourcing their long-term replacements, interim arrangements the required regulatory and governance standards are reflected and having regard to the composition of the Board more generally.
However, we will not rest on our laurels.
Not only have we successfully appointed a Chief Financial Officer On your behalf, as our shareholders, we will continue to work Designate, Sean Wilkins, who started with the Group on hard to improve further our governance and Board performance.
18 November 2013 but we have also appointed David Wild as an independent Non-Executive Director on 14 November 2013 and as Interim Chief Executive announced on 31 January 2014.
Since Stephen Hemsley the year end we have further strengthened the Board with the Chairman appointment of Ebbe Jacobsen as a Non-Executive Director 28 February 2014 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance is at the core of what we do and this report details how the Board has applied the principles and provisions in the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 the Code.
The Code sets out principles and specic provisions on how a company should be directed and controlled to achieve standards ofgood corporate governance and it provides a guide to a number ofkey components of effective board practice.
The Code applies to all companies with a Premium listing of equity shares, regardless of whether they are incorporated in the UK or elsewhere.
The Company is therefore required to report against theCode for the financial year ended 29December2013.
A copy ofthe Code is available at www.
uk The required regulatory and governance assurances are provided throughout this report and also in the Directors report on pages 72to74.
44 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements n o i t a n i m o N A u The Board Structure Chief Financial officer and appointing new The Board is supported in its work by the following independent Non-Executive Directors, which key committees and its Senior Management Teams: resulted in the appointment of David Wild on 14November2013 and Ebbe Jacobsen on 31 The Remuneration Committee January 2014.
The Nomination Committee also The Remuneration Committee determines the regularly reviews and monitors the skill set of terms and conditions of employment, the Board in general, particularly in light of the remuneration and rewards of the Executive Groups increasing growth and presence Directors, the Chairman and the Leadership inparts of Europe.
The Remuneration Committee focuses onwhat is necessary to attract, retain and motivate The Audit Committee these individuals.
During the year under review, The Audit Committee assists the Board in the Remuneration Committee also focused on discharging its responsibilities for the integrity putting in place a Remuneration Policy which of the financial statements, reviewing the weconsulted with major shareholders on and current internal controls and risk mitigation willbeproposed to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
strategies and monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the external auditor.
During the The Nomination Committee year under review, a particular focus has been The Nomination Committee manages the placed on reviewing the internal controls of the recruitment of the Directors and advises on Group alongside reviewing the risk mitigation matters relating to the Boards membership strategies and categorisations and the andCommittee appointments, and this includes Committee approved the development of an reviewing succession plans.
During the year under internal audit function.
review, the Nomination Committee has been especially busy, having focused on nding suitable replacements for the Chief Executive officer and Senior Management Teams Board responsibilities and processes include: The Board is supported by a newly formed Group Executive setting and approving the overall strategy of the Group: and by Leadership Teams in the UK, Germany and Switzerland.
The Executive Directors sit on each of the Group Executive and making and reviewing major business decisions: Leadership Teams and feed back updates to the Board at regular monitoring current trading against previously approved plans: intervals.
Further details on the Group Executive and Leadership Teams can be found at pages 50 to 51 of this Corporate exercising of control by annual review of matters reserved Governance report.
for the Board: review of significant contractual commitments: Focus during the year During the year the Board, supported by its Committees, has review of corporate governance arrangements: focused on: review of major risks and mitigation strategies: recruitment, particularly in relation to the replacement of the Executive and senior management succession planning: and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer alongside the appointment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors: review and control of capital expenditure.
executive management: appointment of David Wild as Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis to ensure smooth transition in 2014 to a new Chief Executive Officer: driving new business opportunities for example the trial of new business concepts such as the kiosk format at sports grounds and universities and the relaunch of service station units : formulating and driving the Groups strategy: reviewing the interim and full year results: a detailed review of the risks register, to ensure the Groups risk profile is aligned with its strategic objectives: considering the establishment of a Group internal audit function: and a major external review and report into the Groups internal controls.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 45 d i t n o i t a r e n u m e R Corporate governance continued Governance structures Board roles and responsibilities There is a clear separation between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The role descriptions were updated and agreed by the Board during the year under review and then again on the appointment of David Wild as Interim Chief Executive and are summarised below.
The Chairman meets with the Chief Executive Officer, off-site, at least once a month and regularly meets with the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairman also has separate discussions with the Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman Providing coherent leadership and ensuring effectiveness in the running Guardian of the Boards decision making processes of the Board Ensuring effective communication by the Group with its shareholders Ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information and Arranging for the Chairs of the Committees to be available to answer ensuring that agendas emphasise strategic, rather than routine, issues questions at the AGM and for all Directors to attend Facilitating effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and Taking the lead in providing a properly constructed, full, formal and arranging informal meetings of the Directors, including meetings of the tailored induction programme for new Directors Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive officer including Interim Leading the development of the Groups strategic direction Oversight of risk management and internal control andobjectives Managing the Groups risk prole including the health and safety Identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals and leading performance of the Group geographic diversication initiatives Implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees Reviewing the Groups organisational structure and recommending Building and maintaining effective Leadership Teams changes as appropriate Ensuring the Chairman is alerted to forthcoming complex, contentious Identifying and executing new business opportunities or sensitive issues affecting the Group Chief Financial officer Recommending to the Board an annual budget and financial plan Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and key stakeholders and updating institutional investors on the business Examining all trade, investments and major capital expenditure strategy and performance proposed by Group companies Maintaining relationships with the Groups banks and managing the Reviewing and monitoring the Groups remuneration policy investment and banking portfolio Oversight of risk management and internal control Non-Executive Director Providing creative contribution to the Board by way of Constructive challenge to the Executive Directors, and the monitoring  ofExecutive performance Bringing independence, impartiality, experience, special knowledge Supporting the Executive team in the shaping and delivery of the and a different perspective to the Board strategic goals of the business Guidance on matters of concern and strategy Optimisation of shareholder return and protection of shareholder assets Oversight of risk management and internal control Ensuring the Board is able to work together effectively and make maximum use of its time Protection of shareholder and stakeholder interests Senior Independent Director During the year under review, Michael Shallow stepped down from Providing a sounding board for the Chairman and intermediary for the role of Senior Independent Director SID and was replaced by otherDirectors David Wild with effect from 13December2013.
On 31 January 2014, Being available to shareholders if they have reason for concern that Michael Shallow was reappointed as SID whilst David Wild acts as contact through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive Interim Chief Executive.
Both Michael and Davids biographies are officer has failed available on page 43.
Holding annual meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the The SID focuses on: Chairman present Meeting regularly with solely the independent Non-Executive Directors 46 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Company Secretary Developing, implementing and sustaining high standards of corporate Communicating with shareholders and keeping the Board informed governance ofshareholder opinions Supporting the Chairman and other Board members as necessary Ensuring compliance with statutory and regulatory governance requirements Advising the Board of legislation, regulation and corporate governance developments which impact the Group, and maintaining the Groups Corporate Governance Manual Board composition We have a diversity of skills, backgrounds and experience within As at 29 December 2013, the Board consisted of three Executive our independent Non-Executive Directors and they play a key and eight Non-Executive Directors, five of whom were deemed to governance role in protecting shareholders interests and be independent.
Since 29 December 2013, the Board has appointed complement the skills and experience of the Executive Directors.
Ebbe Jacobsen as an independent Non-Executive Director.
All of the independent Non-Executive Directors are tasked with ensuring that the Board and Company matters are effectively During the year under review a new Chief Financial Officer challenged from a range of external perspectives.
Designate was appointed, as was a new Non-Executive Director and a further Non-Executive Director was appointed on 31 January The independent Non-Executive Directors met at least twice during 2014 further details are provided in the Independent Nonthe year, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
Executive Directors and Executive Directors sections of this The letters of appointment of our Non-Executive Directors are Corporate governance report.
For the majority of the year under available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at review the Board consisted of two Executive and seven Nonour AGM.
Executive Directors, four of whom were deemed to be independent.
Executive Directors The structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual The Executive Directors of the Company during the year under Directors ensures that no single individual or group dominates the review were Lance Batchelor Chief Executive Officer, Lee decision making process.
There is a common purpose of promoting Ginsberg Chief Financial Officer and Sean Wilkins Chief the overall success of the Group with a unified vision of the Financial Officer Designate.
definitions of success, the core strategic principles, and the understanding, alignment and mitigation of risk.
On 30 July 2013, it was announced by the Company that the Chief Financial Officer, Lee Ginsberg, would retire and stand down at the At the 2013 AGM, each Director retired voluntarily and submitted 2014 AGM.
Lee Ginsberg the Chief Financial Officer currently themselves for re-election.
holds the position of Non-Executive Director of Mothercare plc Terms of reference for all Committees, which are approved by and has done since 2 July 2012.
On 1 January 2014, Lee was also the Board and reviewed annually, are available on Dominos appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Trinity Mirror plc.
com along with It was further announced on 6 December 2013 that Lance Batchelor, the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board which Chief Executive Officer, was resigning from the Company to take remains unaltered.
up the position of Chief Executive Officer of Saga.
Biographies of the Directors and the Company Secretary and One of the focuses during the year under review was therefore the details of their other time commitments are set out on page 43. recruitment of a new Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Independent Non-Executive Directors Officer.
In searching for the replacement Chief Executive Officer The independent Non-Executive Directors during the year under and Chief Financial Officer the Company has worked alongside review were Michael Shallow, John Hodson, Syl Saller, Helen Keays three external consultancy firms, none of which has any other and David Wild.
On 14 November 2013, David Wild was appointed as a NonOn 18 November 2013 the Company formally appointed Sean Executive Director of the Board.
Davids appointment was on Wilkins as Chief Financial Officer Designate.
Sean will stand the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, following for election to the Board of the Company at the 2014 AGM.
consideration of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
On 31 Full details on Seans background can be found in the Directors January 2014 David Wild became Interim Chief Executive pending biographies on page 43. appointment of a full-time replacement.
David will not be treated Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out as an independent Non-Executive Director during his Interim on pages 62 and 63.
Chief Executive role but it is intended that he will revert to the role of Non-Executive Director once a new Chief Executive Officer is As described above, since the year end, David Wild has been appointed and handover is completed.
David will stand for election appointed Interim Chief Executive.
to the Board of the Company at the 2014 AGM.
Company Secretary The Board reviews the independence of its Non-Executive On 18 February 2013, Mark Millar was formally appointed as the Directors as part of its annual Board effectiveness review.
In Groups General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The former assessing the independence of each Director the Board considered Company Secretary, Adam Batty, stood down with effect from whether each was independent in character and judgement.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 47 Corporate governance continued Balance of Board members 29 December 2013 28 February 2014 Chairman 9% Chairman 8% NEDS 18% NEDS 17% Independent NEDS 45% Independent NEDS 42% Executives 28% Executives 33% Length of service of each Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date of appointment Years in post at 29December2013 Stephen Hemsley 1998 15 Colin Halpern 1993 20 Michael Shallow 2006 7 John Hodson 2005 8 Nigel Wray 1999 14 Syl Saller 2011 2 Helen Keays 2011 2 David Wild 2013 Less than 1 Ebbe Jacobsen 2014 n a Stephen Hemsley was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman in 2010.
However, he was first appointed to the Company in 1998.
Full details of Stephens history with the Company can be found in the Directors biographies on page 43.
Colin Halpern acquired the Dominos Pizza franchise for the UK and Ireland in 1993 and has held a variety of jobs within the Group.
Full details of Colins history with the Company can be found in the Directors biographies on page 43.
John Hodson will reach nine years service in 2014 and will retire once David Wild steps down from the Interim Chief Executive role and resumes as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Board attendance The Board held nine formal meetings during the year together with two off-site strategy meetings.
The Board is responsible for setting and approving the strategy and key policies of the Group and monitoring the progress in achieving these objectives through regular reporting and discussion on financial performance, material operational issues and risk.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Board meetings Number of meetings held 4 5 3 9 Executive Directors Lance Batchelor 9 Lee Ginsberg 9 Sean Wilkins 2 2 Non-Executive Directors Stephen Hemsley 3 9 Colin Halpern 9 Michael Shallow 4 5 3 9 Nigel Wray 8 John Hodson 3 4 3 5 3 8 Syl Saller 5 3 8 Helen Keays 3 4 3 3 8 David Wild 1 1 1 1 2 2 Sean Wilkins was appointed as Chief Financial officer Designate on 18November2013.
David Wild was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 14November2013 and a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees on 19 November 2013.
Colin Halpern resigned from the Nomination Committee in February 2013 and Helen Keays was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 24 July 2013.
Attended parts of certain Committee meetings by invitation not a Committee member.
48 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Board induction and professional development Board evaluation When newly appointed, each Director receives a tailored During March and April of 2013 the Executive Directors, induction pack and programme which is designed to familiarise the Chairman and the independent Non-Executive Directors the Director with the Company and the Group as a whole as underwent an external evaluation.
The evaluation was prepared quickly as possible and to ensure that they have the necessary and carried out by MBS Limited, an independent governance knowledge and understanding of the Group and its activities.
consultancy, who carried out the Boards previous external evaluation The programme will usually include an overview of the business in 2011.
MBS Limited has no other connection with the Company.
model and the Board processes, meetings with the Leadership The evaluation was facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Teams, senior managers and major franchisees, store visits and The external evaluation carried out during 2013 focused on the briefings on key governance and compliance issues.
Board structure, the role of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the independent Non-Executive Directors and communications The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, regularly and meetings between the Board and the Committees.
Interviews discusses any development or training needs with individual were held with the Directors, evaluated and the results were Directors.
The Board also recognises the importance of ongoing considered by the Board as a whole.
Whilst recognising that a training and education, particularly regarding new laws and number of improvements had taken place since the last external regulations which are relevant to the Group.
Such training or education is typically provided and kept under review by the Board evaluation in 2011, the Board recognised that a number of Company Secretary, who is responsible for Director induction and recommendations from the 2013 evaluation should be implemented the ongoing training of Directors.
During the year under review, during the year under review.
training was provided in matters including directors duties, risks As a result of this evaluation, the Board has placed a particular and internal controls.
These training programmes have also been focus during the year on the succession planning of senior shared, as appropriate, with the Leadership Teams to ensure that management alongside the recruitment of new independent there is the necessary knowledge and support right across senior Non-Executive Directors to add to the Boards skills and management in the Group.
knowledge, particularly in European operations.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend major In addition to the above evaluation, the Senior Independent franchisee events during the year in order to gain further insight Director meets with the Non-Executive Directors both into the business.
formally and informally throughout the year and uses a tailored questionnaire to assess the Boards and the Chairmans performance Professional advice and effectiveness.
This review also takes into account the views of All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary the Executive Directors.
and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees each respect of his core duties to the Board.
The removal of the appraised the performance of their Committee and have confirmed Company Secretary is a matter specifically reserved for decision that each Committee continues to operate effectively see pages by the Board.
Any questions shareholders may have on corporate 53 and 54 for further details.
The Remuneration Committee governance matters, policies or procedures should be addressed also reviews Executive Directors performance when it reviews to the Company Secretary.
In summary, the Board is satisfied that the arrangements for review and appraisal of the performance Insurance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors are appropriate.
The Company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its Directors and officers, although no cover exists in the event Directors or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 49 Corporate governance continued Leadership Teams The day-to-day management of the Groups operations for delivering the Groups strategy is undertaken by the Group Executive supported by three country-based Leadership Teams.
There is a separate Leadership Team for each geographical area: UK & Ireland Leadership Team: Germany Leadership Team: and Switzerland Leadership Team.
There is a significant commonality of membership between these teams.
Group Executive Overview Members The Group Executive was established in autumn 2013 to give a Lance Batchelor resigns 16 March 2014 Group strategic focus and coordinate the work of the three country David Wild, Interim Chief Executive Chairman Leadership Teams.
The Group Executive is responsible for the Sean Wilkins, Chief Financial officer Designate day-to-day management of the Groups operations and for delivering Mark Millar, Company Secretary and General Counsel the Groupsstrategy through the Leadership Teams in the UK & Ireland, Simon Wallis, Sales and Marketing Director Germany and Switzerland.
Michael Botha, Commercial Director Colin Rees, IT Director Brian Trier, Managing Director International UK & Ireland Leadership Team Overview Activities The UK & Ireland Leadership Team is responsible for the day-to-day The UK & Ireland Leadership Team meets weekly to oversee the running management of the operations and delivery of Groups strategy in the of the UK and Irish business and implementation of the strategy.
Committee has delegated certain tasks to the following operational subcommittees and receives regular updates from the chairman of Senior managers on the UK & Ireland Leadership Team receive an each of them: executive licence setting out their specic limits of authority in terms of entering into financial and other business commitments and they in turn Health & Safety Committee Mark Millar promotes the wellbeing are responsible for ensuring the specified process of delegation is followed and safety of our employees, franchisee employees and customers, in their departments.
andminimises the risk of prosecution and financial penalties Marketing Advisory Committee Simon Wallis comprising ten Members franchisees that have been elected to stand and represent the interests Lance Batchelor resigns 16 March 2014 of franchisees in their area, the Committee is tasked with aligning David Wild, Interim Chief Executive Chairman onmarketing strategy, promotional planning and execution as well Lee Ginsberg, Chief Financial officer retires 2 April 2014 asdeployment of the National Advertising Fund.
There is also an Sean Wilkins, Chief Financial officer Designate IrishCommittee Mark Millar, Company Secretary and General Counsel Store Default Committee Kerri Saunders this deals with the Ian Douglas, Procurement Director and Head of Ireland relationships with franchisees looking particularly at any breaches of the franchise agreement by a particular franchisee and works Simon Wallis, Sales and Marketing Director to develop relationships and rectification of any potential issues Kerri Saunders, Operations Director Store Opening Committee Julia Poulson aims to ensure stores are Jane Franks, HR Director identied, acquired and opened in accordance with the Companys Michael Botha, Commercial Director store opening plan.
Colin Rees, IT Director Changes during the year: On 28January2013, Mark Millar joined the Board and Julia Poulson, Director of Property and Franchise Development the UK Leadership Team replacing Adam Batty as Company Secretary and General Stephen Woodburn, Group Financial Controller Counsel with effect from 18February2013.
On 18November2013 Sean Wilkins was formally appointed as Chief Financial officer Designate.
Witheffect from Georgina Wald, Head of Franchise Development resigned 31December2013 Georgina Wald left the Company and on1January2014 Julia 31December2013 Poulson was promoted to the position of Director ofDominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited the main operating subsidiary of theCompany.
David Wild was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 14 November 2013 and subsequently appointed to the role of Interim Chief Executive on 31 January 2014.
50 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Germany Leadership Team Overview Tom Korver, Supply Chain Centre Manager The Germany Leadership Team is responsible for the day-to-day Robert Strate, Head of Finance management of the operations, growth and delivery of the Groups Jan Hertzberg, Head of Marketing strategy in Germany.
Steffen Alfes, Head of HR Senior managers on the Germany Leadership Team receive an executive During the year under review, Kory Spiroff resigned as the German Market Director on 30September2013 and resigned his service relationship with theGroup on licence setting out their specic limits of authority in terms of entering into 25October2013 to pursue opportunities elsewhere.
Kory was replaced by Brian Trier.
financial and other business commitments and they in turn are Brian has been the Market Director in Switzerland since November 2012 and on responsible for ensuring the specified process of delegation is followed 1October2013 was promoted to Managing Director International of the Group.
On 18November2013, Sean Wilkins was formally appointed as Chief Financial intheir departments.
David Wild was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 14 November 2013 and subsequently appointed to the role of Interim Chief Executive Members on 31 January 2014.
Lance Batchelor resigns 16 March 2014 David Wild, Interim Chief Executive Chairman Activities The Germany Leadership Team meets monthly to oversee the running of Lee Ginsberg, Chief Financial officer retires 2 April 2014 the German business and implementation of strategy.
In the year under Sean Wilkins, Chief Financial officer Designate review the Germany Leadership Team has focused on: Brian Trier, Managing Director International appointed Store openings: 1October2013 Recruiting new franchisees: Michael Botha, Commercial Director Brand penetration in the German market by way of local sponsorship Mark Millar, Company Secretary and General Counsel deals and local store marketing: Ian Douglas, Procurement Director Creating and implementing a new website for the German market: Colin Rees, IT Director Implementing the new minimum wage structure in the North Rhine Stephen Woodburn, Group Financial Controller Westphalia region: and Matthias Kern, Head of Property Building on its policies and procedures and staff induction packs.
Switzerland Leadership Team Overview Samuel Bernhard, Director and Country Manager The Switzerland Leadership Team is responsible for the day-to-day Annika Meister, Finance Manager management of the operations, growth and delivery of the Groups Sebastian Meyer, Operations Manager strategy in Switzerland.
Martin Scheidegger, Marketing Manager Senior managers on the Switzerland Leadership Team receive an Claudia Scherrer, HR Manager executive licence setting out their specic limits of authority in terms Sean Wilkins was formally appointed as Chief Financial officer Designate ofentering into financial and other business commitments and they on18November2013 and Samuel Bernard was appointed as a director on 28August2013.
David Wild was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on inturn are responsible for ensuring the specified process of delegation 14 November 2013 and subsequently appointed to the role of Interim Chief isfollowed intheir departments.
Members Activities Lance Batchelor resigns 16 March 2014 The Switzerland Leadership Team meets monthly to oversee the running David Wild, Interim Chief Executive Chairman of the Swiss business and implementation of strategy.
Inthe year under Lee Ginsberg, Chief Financial officer retires 2 April 2014 review the Switzerland Leadership Team has focusedon: Sean Wilkins, Chief Financial officer Designate relocating stores and nding new premises: and Brian Trier, Managing Director International building on brand awareness and product innovation.
Mark Millar, Company Secretary and General Counsel Switzerland is still a relatively new market for the Group and the focus for Michael Botha, Commercial Director the year has been on relocating existing stores to better areas in terms of Ian Douglas, Procurement Director demographics and retting existing stores in line with current brand Colin Rees, IT Director standards.
The Group has also focused on creating a line of products which are appealing to the Swiss consumer and which build on the Swiss Stephen Woodburn, Group Financial Controller consumers tastes.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51 Corporate governance continued The Board is kept up to date with developments in the business, thirteen UK Leadership Team members were female.
The including the work of the Leadership Teams, through the Chief Switzerland Leadership Team consists of two women and the Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officers monthly report, German Leadership Team was solely male.
We are of the view that which is discussed in detail at each Board meeting.
Group it is in the interests of the Company and the communities in which Leadership Team members regularly attend Board meetings our franchisees operate that together we recruit and develop the to present items and they also meet with the Chairman, as very best people from the widest pool of talent, regardless of gender.
appropriate, to discuss matters which are specific to their The policy of the Board on recruitment is always to seek to appoint area on a less formal basis.
the best candidate to each role.
However, the Board seeks to monitor and ensure a good balance of male and female members Decision making on its Leadership Teams and the Board.
Our governance structure aims to enable appropriate, effective decision making with clear accountabilities and sets out how the Relations with shareholders business is managed and operated at all levels and across all territories.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief It aims to ensure that the risk profile of the business reflects the Financial Officer Designate, the Chairman during the period of strategic objectives of the business, with the ultimate aim of significant management change and the Company Secretary carry protecting the business from reputational or operational damage.
out extensive engagement with analysts, institutional shareholders Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally the and potential shareholders to ensure that there is a strong subject of a proposal by one or more of the Executive Directors or relationship and to understand their views on material issues the Company Secretary and are submitted to the Board, together relating to the business.
Feedback on all such meetings is provided with supporting documentation, as part of the Board or Committee to the Board in summary form, together with independent feedback papers.
At each Board meeting, the Board pack includes an update from investors sought by the Companys broker.
All brokers notes from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and are circulated to the entire Board in order that the Board maintains contains other financial results and functional updates.
There are an understanding of market perceptions of the Company.
presentations on the Companys operations and regular discussions In addition, the Chairman John Hodson as Chair of the on strategy, marketing, franchisee profitability and relationships, Remuneration Committee and the Company Secretary meet employee engagement and social and governance matters.
with major shareholders, principally relating to remuneration and governance issues.
At each Board meeting, a senior manager is invited to make a presentation to the Board and there are a number of formal and The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-Executive informal social occasions each year which enable the Board Directors are available for meetings with shareholders if so members to meet senior management.
Please address any requests via the Company Secretary.
The Groups AGM offers the opportunity to all shareholders Diversity to communicate directly with the entire Board.
Notice of the At Dominos, we are unmistakably proud of the diversity in our AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 system and both we and our franchisees recognise the benefits that working days before the meeting.
All proxy votes received in this brings.
The Group and its franchisees try to develop talent in our respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance respective businesses and encourage people to develop themselves for and against, and any votes withheld are indicated.
The results and succeed regardless of gender, race or any other characteristic.
are announced at the meeting and published on Dominos Investor With regard to gender diversity, which has been the focus of Relations website after the meeting, which also contains a host of significant attention, as at 29 December 2013 Dominos had up to date information on the Group for shareholders and other two female Non-Executive Directors on the Board and four of the interested parties.
Diversity Board Group Workforce UK Leadership Team Male 82% Male 83% Male 69% Female 18% Female 17% Female 31% German Leadership Team Swiss Leadership Team Male 86% Male 100% Female 14% 52 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Committee information Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines the terms and conditions of employment, remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and senior management.
It also advises the Board on the Groups remuneration strategy and framework to recruit, retain and reward senior management.
John Hodson Chairman Chairmans overview At all times during the financial year, the Remuneration Committee The principal purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to assess and comprised only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman recommend to the Board executive remuneration arrangements which ofthe Board, the Vice-Chairman and the Chief Executive officer often are used to attract, retain and motivate the Groups senior managers attend meetings, although some part of every meeting is dedicated to andprovide suitable alignment between individual remuneration discussion among only the Committee members.
The Company Secretary andindividual contribution to the Groups overall performance.
attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Remuneration Committee.
significant work has been carried out in relation to factors now required Activities ofthe Directors remuneration report which is built within this The Committee met formally three times during the year but, in addition AnnualReport.
spent considerable time outside of formal meetings discussing Committee matters.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee, its activities Members during the year and an explanation of how it applies the Directors John Hodson stepped down as Chairman on 12December2013 and remuneration principles of the Code and other applicable rules and was reappointed 31 January 2014 when David Wild stepped down regulations governing remuneration are set out in the Directors Michael Shallow remuneration report on pages 56 to 71.
Syl Saller The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee were revised David Wild was appointed Chairman from 13December2013 but and updated in June 2013 and approved by the Board at its meeting stepped down from the Committee on 30 January 2014 when on25June2013.
appointed Interim Chief Executive Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee manages the process to advise and make recommendations to the Board on matters relating to the Boards membership and committee appointments, including reviewing succession plans.
Syl Saller Chairman Chairmans overview Members The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee is to lead the process Syl Saller of assessing the skills and attributes needed by the Board to function Michael Shallow effectively and discharge its responsibilities.
It also reviews the structure, John Hodson composition and size of the Board to ensure that the Board continues Colin Halpern stepped down from the Committee in February 2014 todevelop and remains effective over time.
David Wild joined the Committee in December2013 but stepped down 2013 has been a busy year for the Nomination Committee which has in January 2014 when appointed Interim Chief Executive spent a considerable amount of time on the appointment of the The Company Secretary attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary replacement of the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial ofthe Nomination Committee.
Ofceralongside the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors.
ThisCommittee also dedicated much of its time to the 2013 external Activities Board evaluation review, working closely with MBS Limited on the The Committee met on three occasions during the year and results of thereview and the contents of the report.
theCommittee considered: the recruitment of a new Chief Executive officer: The Nomination Committee also regularly appraises Board and senior the recruitment of a new Chief Financial officer: management succession over the longer term and continues to focus onensuring that the Company has the optimum mix of Directors to lead the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director: and support the business across all territories for the future, informed the results of the external Board evaluation during the year: byconsiderations of diversity in terms of experience, relevant knowledge the reappointment of all Directors retiring at the 2013 AGM: and and gender.
Board succession and composition over the longer term.
The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee were revised andupdated in June 2013 and approved by the Board at its meeting on25June2013.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the financial statements, the effectiveness of the systems of internal control, and regulatory and financial risk management.
It also monitors the objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors.
Michael Shallow Chairman Chairmans overview What the Committee did in 2013 In addition to monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and The Committee met four times this year during which it: announcements of the Group, the principal purpose of the Audit reviewed results, announcements and the 2013 Annual Report Committee is to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, and Accounts, including half year results and interim management and external audit in addition to providing assurance on the Groups risk statements.
Inherent in this review was consideration of the accounting management processes.
principles, policies and procedures adopted in the Groups financial statements, including where necessary, challenging the judgements In line with the evolving expectations of the Financial Reporting Council, made and the accompanying narrative when appropriate: theAudit Committee determines that the Annual Report and Accounts received regular reports from the Chief Financial officer, the Chief contains fair, balanced and understandable information: and that there is Financial officer Designate, the Financial Controller, the Audit Partner an appropriate balance and alignment of financial and narrative reporting and the Company Secretary on risk and compliance matters: toenable shareholders to make their assessment of the Company.
oversaw further development of the internal controls testing framework Members and assessed the need for an internal audit function and commissioned Michael Shallow: John Hodson: Helen Keays: and David Wild joined the a report on internal controls for : Committee in December2013 but stepped down in January 2014 when approved the auditors work plan for the Group and the Groups own appointed Interim Chief Executive.
annual controls testing plan: In accordance with the Code, Michael Shallow is identied as having reviewed emerging risks and material risk prole: recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee also has access discussed the Companys tax strategy: to the Companys finance team and to its auditors and can seek further reviewed and monitored the external auditors independence and professional advice, at the Companys cost, as appropriate.
objectivity, considered the effectiveness of the audit process and the reappointment of the external auditors, and approved the external The meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the Board, the auditors remuneration and fees being charged by Ernst & Young Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer and his team, and for audit and potential non-audit services: and the external auditors and by the Company Secretary as Secretary of oversaw the dedicated whistleblowing facility for all employees, the Committee.
whichallows employees to raise concerns about possible improprieties significant issues considered in the year in financial reporting or other matters.
During the year the Committee considered and concluded upon what The Audit Committee has had a very active year.
Further to the reviews the significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial statements of internal control and audit in 2013 it has been decided that it would and how these would be addressed.
now be appropriate, given the size and growth of the Group, for the Impairment of the carrying value of the German business appointment dedication of an internal audit and internal control function In July 2013 the Company announced that it would be reconsidering the within the Group.
It is expected that an internal audit role will come into strategy and approach for its German business, given the poor trading full force and effect during the financial year 2014. results of that business and that it would seek to transition loss-making We have built on the work done in 2012 and overseen a further detailed corporate stores to franchisees, consistent with its successful UK review and analysis of the Groups risks.
Whilst we have kept the business model.
As this would likely result in a significant revision to the underlying level of detail we have signicantly shortened the risks section long-term financial budgets for the business, the Board met in Germany of this Annual Report, focusing on the key risks and aligning these with in September 2013 to visit the head ofce, a number of stores and some the strategy of the Group as a whole and re-evaluating the likelihood and competitor stores to understand the business fully.
It also held a strategy impact that the risks are likely to have on the Group.
day with the Executive Directors and senior German management team to remodel the business and seek to understand store level economics The Committee also put in place and approved an Auditor Independence in Germany.
Once the financial budgets had been revised and the Policy and considered an Auditor Rotation Policy.
However, it was potential impairment issues quantied, the Committee discussed the level determined in line with The Auditing Practice Board Ethical Standard 3, of impairment charges on a line by line basis with senior management Audit Engagement Partners should rotate every five years or seven in and external auditors before approving the levels of impairment included certain circumstances and the Companys current Audit Partner has been in these results.
in place for four years and therefore would not be rotated until 2015.
The Committee had regular private discussions with the auditors during Classification of exceptional items the year with no management present, in order to understand the The financial results include a number of exceptional items, many of auditors views on the control and governance environment and which relate to the transition of the German business and the Committee managements effectiveness therein.
has responsibility to ensure appropriate classication of all such items to ensure that the results are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee ensured that it had a thorough understanding of the business from the Board trip to Germany and considered a detailed report from management of each proposed exceptional item, and also the external auditors report to the Committee, in order to determine the appropriate quantum and disclosure of each exceptional item.
54 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Internal audit Risk management and internal controls As the Group continues to expand and enters new territories the Risk management requirement for internal controls and risk management becomes The Groups risk management system has been thoroughly reviewed more key.
During the year the Board commissioned throughout the year.
It is designed to encourage entrepreneurial  to report on proposals to establish an spirit and also to provide assurance that risk is fully understood internal audit function, reporting to the Company Secretary.
Risks are identified by way of a traffic light system Following the review carried out by , the in terms of both likelihood and impact and subsequently ranked Company is establishing an internal audit function within the as either primary or secondary risks to the business.
Group in 2014 and the scope of this new function will be considered This categorisation allows senior management to really focus on in further detail following the completion of the final report by those primary risks that are most pertinent to the Groups business,  in spring 2014. rather than having the key risks lost in the wider pool of other risks.
External auditors Detailed risk mitigation strategies for all risks have been produced Ernst & Young LLP EY has served as the Groups auditor since and are reviewed regularly and reported on to the Audit Committee.
However, Dominos did not become a public interest entity Overall responsibility for risk management sits with the Board until it joined the Main List in 2008.
The partner engaged on the and the Board monitors the Groups risk management system and its audit is changed in line with Code standards and the services effectiveness within the context of the Groups strategy.
The Group provided by EY are reviewed periodically.
The Audit Committee Executive and Leadership Teams are responsible for implementing plays a key role in managing the relationship with the Groups and maintaining the appropriate controls and systems in relation external auditor.
to risk and, at least biannually, the Company Secretary reports Assessment of effectiveness of auditors to the Board on the current risk analysis matrix.
The effectiveness of the audit process carried out by EY is an Full and further details of the Groups risks and risk management important aspect of the Audit Committees confidence in the can be found in the Strategic report on pages 23 to 26.
Companys approach to controls and risks and in the integrity of its financial reporting.
During the year the Committee discussed Internal controls EYs effectiveness with each of the senior finance team, the auditors The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its review of the and the Board, considered the audit in the light of the audit plan, Companys internal controls and risk management.
This includes and concluded that EY continue to prove effective in its role as the appropriateness, effectiveness and sustainability of the Groups external auditor.
risk management systems of internal control and governance frameworks and processes in light of the Groups strategy.
The Independence of auditors Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and EYs independence is evidenced through their robust challenge reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal control is to management during the audit process.
EYs effectiveness designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the failure enables the Audit Committee to recommend their reappointment to achieve business objectives and strategy and or risks.
There was no non-audit work carried out by the external auditors in the year under review.
However, During the year under review the Company instructed there is a formal policy governing the conduct of non-audit work  to carry out a full review of the current by the auditors in line with the Auditing Practice Boards Ethical internal controls and systems that are in place within the Group.
Standards which was implemented in the year under review.
 are due to complete and finalise their report of the review in spring 2014 and the Companys intention is During the year ended 29 December 2013, EY fees for audit services to review the report with a view to implementing certain of its were 0.2m and a summary of the audit fees for 2013 are given in recommendations during the 2014 financial year.
note 6 to the financial statements.
During the year under review the Directors have not identified or been The Audit Committee considered whether to tender audit services advised of any failings which appear to be significant weaknesses.
during 2013 for 2014 audit for the first time as a public company.
However, the system can only provide reasonable and not absolute However, with the change of Chief Financial Officer and the need assurance against material misstatement or loss.
to appoint a new Chief Executive Officer in 2014, the Committee wanted to preserve continuity and will reconsider putting audit services out to tender during 2014.
Consequently, the Committee has recommended to the Board that EY be reappointed as auditor of the Company.
A resolution for the reappointment will be put to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 2 April 2014.
The Audit Committee satisfied itself that there is a continual process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
This has been in place for the financial year being reported and up tothe publication date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
No material financial problems have been identied that would affect the results reported in these financial statements and the Board confirms that if significant weaknesses had been identied during this review, the Board would have taken the necessary steps to remedy them.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55
