Drax Group plc 77 Annual report and accounts 2013 Nominations Committee report Membership and process Role of the Committee Committee Chairman Charles Berry The principal duties of the Committee are to keep under review the Chairman of the Board structure, size and composition of the Board including the skills, knowledge and experience required by it, to consider succession planning for the directors and other senior managers, to identify and nominate candidates to fill vacancies among the directors and to review the time required from non-executive directors.
Terms of reference Committee members Attending by invitation The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Tim Cobbold, Melanie Gee, David Chief Executive, Head of Human Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available Lindsell and Tony Thorne all of whom Resources.
on the Groups website at www.
Tim Barker formerly Senior Independent Director had been a member of the Committee until his retirement on 23 April 2013.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Number of meetings held in 2013 4 The Chairman of the Committee reports on the Committees At the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM proceedings to the following Board meeting and, subject to held on 24 April 2013, Tim Barker retired as a director of the redaction in the event that they include personal information, Company and from the committees on which he served.
the minutes of each meeting of the Committee are circulated The Committee initiated a review of the effectiveness of the to all members of the Board.
Board, its committees and individual directors and the outcome At its meeting in November, the Committee reviewed the is reported in the Corporate governance report on page 66. succession plan in relation to senior management roles.
The The Board met on 11 February 2014, following the completion succession plan was considered to be appropriate taking into of the Board evaluation process, and determined that all of the account the size and management structure of the Group.
directors who are the subject of annual re-election will retire The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves and concluded that following the appointment of an for re-election.
The evaluation of the Board described on additional non-executive director at the start of the year and page 66 concluded that the directors offering themselves for the retirement of Tim Barker in April, the composition of the re-election continue to demonstrate commitment to their Board was appropriate for the business at this time.
particular role and perform effectively.
During the course of the year, the Committee undertook a The executive directors service contracts and non-executive senior management evaluation and development exercise with directors letters of appointment are available for inspection the assistance of Russell Reynolds Associates.
The objective by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the was to identify the particular attributes and development needs Companys registered office.
They will also be available for of potential successors to board and Executive Committee inspection at the venue, prior to the AGM, details of which roles.
Various targeted development programmes have been are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
identified and implemented for particular individuals to This report was reviewed and approved by the Nominations enhance the quality of potential internal successors.
The Committee recognises the strength that can be achieved through diversity in its wider sense in the Groups management.
In particular, it is the Boards policy to ensure that the proportion of women on the Board is one of the considerations for Board and senior management appointments.
That policy is Charles Berry implemented as part of the recruitment and selection process.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee Further details of gender diversity in the Group are included in the Corporate and social responsibility section of the Annual report and accounts.
The Companys Articles provide that directors retire by rotation.
However, the UK Corporate Governance Code provides that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
The Company adopted the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the annual re-election of all directors at the beginning of 2011.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
