Drax Group plc 73 Annual report and accounts 2013 Audit Committee report Membership and process Role of the Committee Committee Chair airman man David Lindsell The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities.
Senior independent ent ent Its primary functions are to: non-executive direct rector or monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other information provided to shareholders: review significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the financial statements: review the systems of internal control and risk management: maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups external Committee members Attending by invitation auditor and review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external Tim Cobbold, Melanie Gee and Tony Chairman of the Board, Chief audit process: Thorne all of whom are independent Executive, Finance Director, Group monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function non-executive directors.
Tim Barker Financial Controller, Head of Risk which is provided by Grant Thornton UK LLP, review the internal formerly Senior Independent Management, External auditor, audit plan, all internal audit reports and review and monitor Director had been a member of the Internal auditor.
managements responses to the findings and recommendations Committee until his retirement of the internal audit function: and on 23 April 2013. advise the Board on whether the Committee believes the Annual The Board is satisfied that the report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
membership of the Committee meets the requirement for recent Terms of reference and relevant financial experience.
The Company Secretary acts as The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Secretary to the Committee.
Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
com Following the review in July 2013, the terms of reference were updated to Number of meetings held in 2013 reflect the Committees responsibilities in respect of the Annual report and accounts, as set out in the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
4 The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees At meetings in February and July 2013, the Committee deliberations to the following Board meeting and the minutes reviewed the Groups Preliminary results announcement of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to all and Annual report and accounts, and the Half year results members of the Board.
announcement and Half year report respectively: In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the at these meetings, the Committee received reports from services of the Finance Director and the Company Secretary and management and the external auditor on the application their resources, as well as access to external professional advice.
of accounting policies on significant estimates and judgements made in preparing the financial statements, and on the methods used to account for any significant or Main activities during the year unusual transactions.
Our principal accounting policies are set out in the notes to the accounts.
In respect of all such During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in matters, the external auditor concurred with the judgements accordance with an agreed annual work plan.
The routine made by management and the Committee was satisfied items which are put to each meeting are as follows: that the accounting policies were applied appropriately the Committees rolling annual plan review, reports from the and the estimates and judgements made were appropriate.
internal audit function on the progress of their programme In addition, the Committee also satisfied itself of the for the year including fee analysis and new internal audit independence and objectivity of the external auditor reports.
The Committee continues to focus on specifically on the basis set out below under the Independence identified strategic risk areas, as well as ensuring the of the external audit section of the report.
provision of a core compliance assurance service.
No significant weaknesses were identified in any of the internal audit reports although certain improvements in processes and procedures were made as a result of reviews.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 74 Annual report and accounts 2013 Audit Committee report Reviewing the 2013 Annual report and accounts In addition, other matters relating to the application of At the meeting in February 2014, the Committee reviewed accounting policies or accounting treatment have been the content of the 2013 Annual report and accounts, considered during the year at the February, July and alongside a paper on accounting issues and judgements November 2013 meetings, and again at the February 2014 impacting the accounts.
The significant issues and meeting in relation to our financial reports: judgements considered were as follows: these included the accounting judgements, estimates and ROCs and LECs The value of ROCs and LECs is recognised assumptions in relation to obligations under the Community as they are earned through generating electricity from Energy Savings Programme, retirement benefit obligations burning biomass.
Accordingly, the value is deducted from pension, taxation and impairment.
Further detail on the cost of the biomass burnt and held on the balance these areas can be found in note 3 to the consolidated sheet until sold.
The valuation is necessarily based on financial statements.
assumptions regarding future sales prices of in addition, other accounting issues, namely in relation to these instruments in the market.
The Committee was application of accounting policies or accounting treatment satisfied that the assumptions made by management carbon, coal and biomass stock and new items in the were appropriate and that the Companys accounting financial statements oil and freight trading and port policy for ROCs and LECs has been applied in a manner contracting were reviewed.
Where applicable our consistent with the previous year see note 13 to the accounting policies are set out in the relevant note to consolidated financial statements.
Derivatives As explained in more detail in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group enters into The Committee met twice in the absence of management commodity contracts to manage its exposure to with each of the external February and July and internal commodity price movements and forward foreign auditor April and November.
No matters of concern were currency exchange contracts to manage its exposure to drawn to the Committees attention at any of these meetings.
transactions denominated in currencies other than sterling.
The Committees understanding with both the external and The Committee gained assurance regarding the valuation internal auditor is that, if they should at any time become of and movements in the Groups derivative contracts aware of any matters occasioning them material concern, through management reports on derivative valuations they will immediately draw it to the Committees attention supported by market data, detailed reports of the year via the Chairman of the Committee.
Nothing was subject end positions, and discussion with management to this procedure in the course of the year.
regarding the approach taken to fair value measurement In addition to the routine items outlined above, there were and the application of hedge accounting.
The Committee a number of specific items which are put to the meetings also noted that an independent review of internal controls as follows: over certain aspects of trading and treasury activities during the year had raised no significant issues.
Meeting Item under review February Effectiveness of internal controls and consideration of fraud Property, plant and equipment The net book value of the Disclosure of information to auditors Groups property, plant and equipment was 1.6 billion at Assessment of effectiveness of external audit process 31 December 2013 see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
The useful economic lives of assets making April Review of Senior Accounting Officer reporting up a large proportion of this balance are based on the Review of risk management processes assumed economic life of the Drax Power Station as a Auditor independence policy review whole.
This assumption therefore has a material impact on Whistle-blowing reporting policy review the depreciation charge in the income statement and the Ethics and Business Conduct Steering Committee review carrying value of the assets concerned.
The Committee Review of the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance code in respect of audit tenders without received a report on the outcome of a full review by internal and external auditors present management of the useful economic life of Drax Power Review of the external auditors management letter Station and was satisfied that the 35 year life set in 2004 remained appropriate.
July Treasury controls review Audit Committee terms of reference annual review Explanation of the critical accounting judgements, estimates November Effectiveness of internal controls, consideration of fraud, and assumptions is set out in detail in note 3 to the review of risk register and biomass sustainability report consolidated financial statements.
Review of finance team Biomass pricing controls review Review and approval of the external auditor terms of engagement At the meeting in February 2014, in line with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit Committees, the Committee undertook a review of its own effectiveness and concluded that the composition of its membership, the manner in which it operates and the reviews that it undertakes throughout the year all contribute to the continued effective functioning of the Committee.
Drax Group plc 75 Annual report and accounts 2013 Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the External auditor effectiveness year for audit and other services are set out in note 5 to the At the February 2014 meeting, the Committee reviewed consolidated financial statements on page 113.
The external the effectiveness of the external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for This process incorporated feedback from management and the Group audit every five years and the current audit partner, key individuals across the Group, as well as its own experience.
Carl Hughes, has been in place for five years.
His successor, The assessment considered the robustness of the audit James Leigh, will take responsibility in respect of the process, the quality of delivery of the audit plan, the quality 2014 audit.
of reporting on findings and recommendations to the No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Groups Committee and management, and the quality of the audit choice of external auditor.
Having reviewed Deloittes performance during the year and satisfied itself of their continuing independence and Audit tendering objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory As set out in the Corporate governance section, the requirements and professional standards see below, the Committee recommended that the Board decide not to Committee has invited the Board to recommend the comply for the time being with provision C. 3.7 of the UK reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor at the forthcoming Corporate Governance Code the Code, as revised in Annual General Meeting AGM and a resolution to that September 2012, which stipulates that the external audit effect appears in the notice of the AGM.
contract should be put out to tender at least every ten years.
Deloitte LLP has been the auditor of the Drax group of Independence of the external audit companies since 1999, and was appointed as auditor of Drax Group plc on its incorporation in 2005.
During this period the The Group has an Auditor Independence Policy, in accordance audit has not been put out to tender.
In order to comply with with which the Committee annually reviews the quality and the new Code provision effective for this financial period, we cost effectiveness of the external audit and the independence would need to put the audit out to tender for the 2014 year and objectivity of the external auditor.
The rationale for non-compliance reflects the importance Independence Policy can be found on the Companys website we place on the period of transformational change the at www.
com business is undergoing to become a predominantly biomassThe provisions of the Policy include: fired power station.
The incumbent auditor has accumulated knowledge and experience that allows it to carry out effective seeking confirmation that the auditor is, in its professional and efficient audits during this period of change and provide judgement, independent of the Group and obtaining from insightful and informed challenge.
In addition, to conduct a it an account of all relationships which may affect the firms thorough competitive audit tender process would require independence and the objectivity of the audit partner substantial Board and management participation at a time and staff: when the transformation of the business is placing greatly a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to increased demands on them.
conduct non-audit work under which: In coming to a recommendation the Committee considered the auditor may not be engaged to provide certain how, notwithstanding its recommendation to defer putting categories of work, including those where they may be the external audit contract out to tender, the Group would required to audit their own work or make management adhere to the principle of the Code to maintain an appropriate decisions, or where the auditor would act in an advocacy relationship with the auditor.
The independence and the role for the Group: effectiveness of the external auditor are reviewed annually by the Committee and no weakening in the level of the auditor's there is a clear process of approval for engaging the scepticism or in its desire to challenge management's auditor to conduct other categories of non-audit work, judgements and assumptions in relation to financial reporting subject to financial limits: has been noted.
In addition, there is a well-established policy all engagements of the auditor to conduct non-audit regarding the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, work are reported to the next meeting of the Committee: and fees paid to the external auditor for audit and non-audit services are reviewed at each Committee meeting, with the balance between the fees paid to the external restricted delegated authority to approve non-audit services auditor for audit and non-audit work is monitored by without the Committee's approval.
the Committee: and In the light of these policies and procedures, the Committee a policy on the employment by the Group of former is satisfied that an appropriate relationship has been employees of the external auditor, the essence of which maintained with the auditor.
is to require a period of two years to elapse between the cessation of an individuals association with the auditor The Committee has undertaken to review this decision and appointment to any financial reporting oversight role on an annual basis, including consideration of legislative within the Group.
developments, with the current intention of going through a full audit tender process for the 2016 year end, in line with The Committee receives reports from the external auditor the completion of the substantial part of the biomass on its own processes and procedures to ensure its transformation project.
independence and objectivity and to ensure compliance with the relevant standards.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 76 Annual report and accounts 2013 Audit Committee report Internal audit Fair, balanced and understandable view Grant Thornton UK LLP undertakes the Groups internal audit At the February 2014 meeting, the Committee reviewed function.
The Committee periodically reviews whether the the content of this Annual report and accounts and advised internal audit function is likely to be more effective or efficient the Board that, in its view, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced if provided internally.
In view of the nature and scope of the and understandable and provides the information necessary Groups business and its management structure, the Committee for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business considers that it continues to be more effective and efficient model and strategy.
for core internal audit functions to be undertaken by an This report was reviewed and approved by the Audit external service provider, augmented as appropriate by Committee on 18 February 2014. additional reviews that require specialist expertise.
The Committee receives reports at each meeting regarding the internal audit programme and reviews undertaken.
Recommendations are made to management for process David Lindsell Chairman of the Audit Committee improvements as appropriate.
Topics dealt with by internal audit reports reviewed by the Committee during 2013 included: stock management coal and biomass : by-product revenue: purchasing and expenditure processes from budgeting through to payment of invoices: compliance with the Bribery Act: key financial controls over business planning and capital budgeting: IT key controls and portfolio management: review of the US operations key controls: controls over capital project management: review of demand forecasting and credit risk management at Haven Power Limited Haven Power as well as key financial controls over revenue and indirect taxes at Haven Power.
The Chairman of the Committee, independent of management, maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal and external auditor.
