Drax Group plc 64 Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate governance A commitment to goodgovernance Drax is committed to good corporate governance, whichisacornerstone to a successful and sustainable company.
Charles Berry Chairman Chairmans letter I am pleased to present the Groups Corporate governance An important part of my role is to ensure that the Board report for 2013 on behalf of our Board.
This report is intended contains the right balance of skills, expertise and experience.
to provide you with a clear and meaningful explanation of We have an established policy which ensures that diversity what governance means to us and how it guides our decision including gender diversity is one of the factors taken into making.
Good governance at all levels is a cornerstone of account when considering appointments to the Board and management within the Group and it is the Board that sets other senior roles.
thetone and takes the lead.
The Board has reviewed the requirements of the UK Corporate As Chairman, it is my role to ensure that Drax is led by an Governance Code and we comply with it except currently in effective Board.
The Board believes that good practice relation to provisions on tendering the audit process.
A more shouldflow throughout the Group, which in turn should detailed report on our corporate governance arrangements guidethe decisions taken on a daily basis.
If we achieve this, isset out on the following pages.
then wecanbe sure that we are taking the right actions forthebenefit of all our stakeholders.
During 2013, we continued to strengthen our internal control and risk management processes to ensure that they remain Charles Berry effective and are embedded in operations as the Groups Chairman business evolves in scope and dimension.
Drax Group plc 65 Annual report and accounts 2013 Our governance framework Governance structure The Chairman The Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Chief Executive Executive Committee Group Risk Management Assurance Accountability Committee Drax Biomass Treasury and Haven Power New Developments Corporate Services Safety, Health, International Risk Commodity Risk Management Risk Management Risk Management Environment and Management Risk Management Committee Committee Committee Production Integrity Committee Committee Committee Risks: Risks: Risks: Risks: Risks: Risks: Development, Treasury, Commodity Haven operational Strategic Regulatory, Health and Safety, Engineering, and Trading development, Compliance, HR, IT, Technical plant Corporate, Legal, New business Reputational and and Environmental Financial etc.
project execution Corporate Finance performance The Articles also allow the Board to exercise voting rights in How the Board functions group companies without restriction e. g. so as to appoint a The Board receives regular reports on performance against director to the board of a group company without this the Business Plan and periodic business reports from senior counting as a conflict requiring authorisation.
Directors are briefed on matters to be Each director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the discussed at meetings by papers distributed in advance Company and its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and of Board and committee meetings.
liabilities incurred, in either case arising out of the bona fide The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the discharge by the director of his or her duties.
The Company furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of advice at the Companys expense.
During 2013, no director legal action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
sought independent professional advice pursuant to the policy.
Selection, appointment, review and re-election The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters, ensuring good information flows Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles which provide within the Board, its committees and senior management, and that one-third of directors shall retire by rotation each year ensuring that Board processes are complied with.
He is also and are eligible for re-election by shareholders at the Annual responsible for compliance with the Listing, Prospectus, General Meeting AGM, and in accordance with the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Companies Act.
Corporate Governance Code, the Company will continue to In his role as Director of Corporate Affairs, he is also propose all directors for annual re-election.
Accordingly, each responsible for advising the Board on legal matters and of the current directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM has responsibility for the Company Secretarial, External and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Communications, Group Legal and Human Resources The evaluation of the Board described below concluded that functions, and for the management of the Groups internal the directors offering themselves for re-election continue control and risk management framework and processes.
to demonstrate commitment, management and industry The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the expertise in their particular role and perform effectively.
directors power to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Board The re-election of each director is recommended by the has adopted a procedure, that has operated effectively, by Board.
Details of the service contracts for the executive which situations giving rise to potential conflicts of interest directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive are identified to the Board, considered for authorisation directors are set out in a table on page 94. and recorded.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 66 Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate governance It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will During the year, the Chairman held a meeting with the be appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the non-executive directors in the absence of the executive Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and directors, and the Senior Independent Director held a commitment, and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate meeting with the non-executive directors without the AGM, may be renewed by mutual agreement.
However, it is Chairman being present, as required by provision A.
4.2 the Boards policy not to extend the aggregate period of of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
service of any independent non-executive director beyond The Board is committed to the development of all employees nine years, and any proposal made to extend a non-executive and directors and has reviewed and will periodically continue directors aggregate period of office beyond six years is the to review each directors development requirements and subject of a rigorous review.
Such reviews in cases where a make appropriate arrangements to address them.
All new director remains in office after six years, will be conducted directors receive an induction, including being provided with annually, as part of the evaluation of the Board.
information about the Group and their responsibilities, The Board is satisfied that all the directors are able to devote meetings with key managers and visits to the Groups sites.
sufficient time to their duties as directors.
In addition, each non-executive director visits operational sites both in the UK and the US.
Periodically, they also meet with senior management to be briefed on the Groups business and Performance reviews and directors development specific Board training days are arranged, where appropriate, The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the involving presentations on relevant topics.
The Board conducted a review of its effectiveness and that of its committees with the assistance of external facilitation during the period 2007 to 2011.
In 2012, the performance review was undertaken internally, led by the Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary.
In 2013, we have reverted to using an external facilitator in Armstrong Bonham Carter.
The review concluded that each of, the Board, its individual directors and its committees continued to be effective.
No significant areas of concern were identified.
The review did, however, give rise to some suggestions to improve the overall effectiveness of the Board.
In the light of these comments, the Board will continue to develop its processes in the areas of strategy development, people leadership and the monitoring of risk.
Committees of the Board The table below details the standing committees established by the Board and the membership thereof: 1 2 Committee Audit Nominations Remuneration Executive Group Risk 3 Tim Barker Member Member Chairman Charles Berry Invited to attend Chairman Member Tim Cobbold Member Member Member Peter Emery Member Member Melanie Gee Member Member Member 4 Philip Hudson Secretary Secretary Secretary Member Chairman David Lindsell Chairman Member Member Tony Quinlan Invited to attend Member Member Paul Taylor Member Member Dorothy Thompson Invited to attend Invited to attend Chairman Invited to attend 5 Tony Thorne Member Member Member Chairman Notes: 1 The Executive Committee is a committee through which the Chief Executive discharges her duties in respect of the day-to-day management of the Group.
In addition to those named above, Andrew Koss Director of Strategy and Matthew Rivers Director of Fuel are also members.
Phil White Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Executive Committee.
2 In addition to those named above, Janet Gallagher SVP Legal, US and Rachel Kemsley Finance Director, Haven Power each of whom chairs a risk committee which reports to this Committee, are members.
3 Up until his retirement as a director of the Company at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2013, Tim Barker had been Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of each of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
4 Philip Hudson is the Director of Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary.
5 Tony Thorne was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee effective from Tim Barkers retirement.
Up until that time, he had been a member of that committee.
Drax Group plc 67 Annual report and accounts 2013 Details of the work of the Audit, Nominations and make recommendations to improve effectiveness Remuneration Committees are given in the respective reports of internal controls.
The terms of reference for the make recommendations for changes in procedures committees are reviewed annually by each committee and and policies.
then by the Board and are available on the Groups website at www.
com In April 2013 a Group Risk Management Committee GRMC Directors interests, indemnity arrangements was established to coordinate the activities of the six and other significant agreements established operational risk committees.
As the Groups business has become more complex, the GRMC now provides Other than a deed of indemnity between each director, the greater oversight of the risk management process in the Company and each of its subsidiaries in respect of claims Group, group risk optimisation and cross group risk issues.
made and personal liability incurred as a result of the bona fide Two meetings of the GRMC have been held this year.
discharge of the directors responsibilities, a service contract between the executive directors and a Group company, or The purpose of the GRMC is to: as noted in the Remuneration Committee report, no director had a material interest at any time during the year in any monitor the risk management process on a Group-wide basis.
contract of significance with the Company or any of its maintain the Consolidated Risk Register and Cross-Group subsidiary undertakings.
There are no agreements between the Group and its directors oversee the risk management process in relation to or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or cross-Group risks.
employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
provide an escalation route for Risk Committees who The Board has reviewed the independence of each disagree on materiality or probability of a shared or non-executive director.
None of the non-executive directors common risk.
who has served during the year had any material business or assist in the risk analysis conducted within the business other relationship with the Group, and there were no other units and identify areas where best practice in one area can matters that were likely to affect their independence of be transferred to another.
The Board therefore considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent.
provide additional assurance on the control environment.
Board and Board Committee attendance The table below shows the number of meetings and attendance at them by directors of the Board, Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees during 2013.
The number in brackets represents the maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
1 Time on the Board Time with Drax Audit Nominations Remuneration 2 years months years months Board Committee Committee Committee Tim Barker 7 2 8 6 3 3 2 2 2 2 3 3 Charles Berry 8 0 8 0 7 7 4 4 7 7 Tim Cobbold 3 3 3 3 7 7 4 4 4 4 7 7 Peter Emery 8 2 9 6 7 7 Melanie Gee 1 0 1 0 7 7 4 4 4 4 7 7 David Lindsell 5 1 5 1 7 7 4 4 4 4 7 7 Tony Quinlan 5 4 5 4 7 7 Paul Taylor 2 4 9 6 7 7 Dorothy Thompson 8 2 8 3 7 7 Tony Thorne 3 6 3 6 7 7 4 4 4 4 7 7 Notes: 1 This includes both the time spent on the Board of Drax Group plc and also the effective predecessor companies Drax Group Limited and Drax Power Limited, up to 31 December 2013.
2 In addition to the Board meetings identified above, there have also been three meetings held by telephone to discuss various matters, one of which was held to specifically approve the US pellet plants investments and one meeting was held devoted to strategy.
There was full attendance at each of these meetings.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 68 Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate governance Time commitment Relations with shareholders Under the terms of his letter of appointment, the Chairman is The Chairman is keen to ensure that he maintains an open expected to commit between 50 and 70 full days a year to relationship with the Groups major shareholders and fulfil his role.
communicates directly with them, offering the opportunity to meet in order that he can understand their views on the Under the non-executives letters of appointment, the time Group, be it corporate governance issues or any other points commitment each is expected to give in respect of they might wish to raise.
membership of the Board, is 12 to 15 full days a year.
That includes attendance at Board meetings, the AGM, one annual The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback Board strategy day and at least one site visit per year.
In from post-results investor meetings conducted by the Chief addition, they are expected to devote appropriate preparation Executive and the Finance Director in the UK, Europe and the time ahead of each meeting.
The time commitment expected US.
These took place following both the preliminary and half in respect of their membership of committees of the Board, year results announcements in 2013.
Makinson Cowell notably the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Limited, an independent capital markets consultancy firm and Committees, is an additional three to four full days a year part of the KPMG Group, is engaged by the Group to advise in each case.
and assist in relation to communications with shareholders.
The Companys private registered shareholders hold, in aggregate, approximately 0.6% of the issued share capital.
Corporate governance The Board is as interested in their concerns as it is in the The Group is committed to high standards of corporate concerns of institutional and corporate shareholders.
All governance, details of which are given in this Corporate shareholders are free to put questions to the Board at the governance report and the Audit, Nominations and AGM.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will receive an Remuneration Committee reports set out on pages 73 to 98. oral response whenever possible.
Otherwise a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the The various sections of this report contain in summary certain AGM.
Questions asked at other times will normally receive a provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association written response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have the Articles and applicable English law concerning an opportunity to meet informally with the directors companies the Companies Act 2006.
This is a summary only immediately after the meeting.
and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
All information reported to the market via a regulatory information service also appears as soon as practicable on the Groups website.
Compliance with the UK Corporate The directors consider that this Annual report and accounts, Governance Code taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess on 1 January 2013, there has been full compliance with the the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Pages 1 to 57 provide an assessment of the Groups affairs.
issued in September 2012 and applicable for this financial The Annual report and accounts is available to shareholders year, and this compliance is illustrated in the details set out in at least 20 working days before the AGM.
However, the Board has, on the recommendation shareholders receive a Form of Proxy which provides for of the Audit Committee, taken the decision not to comply for a shareholder to vote in favour or against, or to indicate the time being with provision C. 3.7. of the Code, to put the abstention as an alternative on each separate resolution.
external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged are announced to the A detailed explanation is included within the Audit Committee London Stock Exchange and placed on the Groups website report on page 75. as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
Internal control Details of the Groups system of internal control and risk management are contained in the Principal risks and uncertainties section together with the Directors responsibilities statement in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Drax Group plc 69 Annual report and accounts 2013 Variation of rights Statutory information Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to Annual General Meeting any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of A separate document contains the notice convening the AGM the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value and a description of the business to be conducted.
of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate General Meeting Share capital of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate General The Company has only one class of equity shares, which are Meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or 16 ordinary shares of 11 29 pence each.
There are no restrictions representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of on the voting rights of the ordinary shares.
the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as Treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the Shares in issue holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly At 1 January 2013 As at 31 December 2013 As at 18 February 2014 provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed 401,587,564 402,566,332 402,568,006 to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Issue of shares Transfer of shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be Companies Act relating to authority and pre-emption rights effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form and to any resolution of the Company in a General Meeting, all or in any other form acceptable to the directors and may be unissued shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the under hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by directors and they may allot with or without conferring a right or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise dispose of paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the they think proper.
name of the transferee is entered in the register.
All transfers During the period, 978,768 ordinary shares in the Company of shares which are in uncertificated form may be effected by were issued as follows: means of the CREST system.
600,248 shares under the rules of the Groups SavingsThe directors may decline to recognise any instrument of Related Share Option Plan SAYE Plan to 305 transfer relating to shares in certificated form unless it: participants who held options under the 3-year 2010 Grant a is in respect of only one class of share: and which matured on 1 May 2012 and four individuals who had retired from the Group: and b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped if required accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such 378,520 shares under the rules of the Groups Bonus other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to Matching Plan BMP to 66 participants in the BMP.
The show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if shares issued represented 0.07% of the Companys issued the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person ordinary share capital prior to those shares being issued.
on his her behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
No other ordinary shares were issued during the year and the The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, Company held no treasury shares during 2013. in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason In January 2014, a total of 1,674 shares were issued under the therefore, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being rules of the SAYE Plan to two participants who had retired fully paid shares provided that, where any such shares are from the Group.
admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to Authority to purchase own shares prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place At the AGM held on 24 April 2013, shareholders resolved on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to to authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully paid 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
At the forthcoming or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew this authority.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they Details are contained in the notice of the AGM.
shall send within two months after the date on which the The Company did not purchase any of its own shares letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company, during 2013. to the allottee or transferee, notice of the refusal.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Rights and obligations attaching to shares Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are for a transfer of shares to take place.
The Articles may only be changed by the shareholders by special resolution.
The Articles provide that the directors must give reasons for any refusal to register a transfer of shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 70 Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate governance Shares in uncertificated form Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to in uncertificated form and title to such shares may be exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and transferred by means of a relevant system or that shares of vote on their behalf at a General Meeting or class meeting.
any class should cease to be held and transferred.
Subject to A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST Regulations General Meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy and every other statute, statutory instrument, regulation or is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different order for the time being in force concerning companies and share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a affecting the Company.
The provisions of the Articles shall corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on not apply to shares of any class which are in uncertificated its behalf at a General Meeting or class meetings as a form to the extent that the Articles are inconsistent with the corporate representative.
holding of shares of that class in uncertificated form, the Deadlines for exercising voting rights transfer of title to shares of that class by means of a relevant Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting of the Company system or any provision of the CREST Regulations.
in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in Voting relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms restrictions as to voting attached by, or in accordance with, of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the the Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
member who is present in person at a General Meeting shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in Restrictions on voting person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, he she is the holder.
It has been the Companys practice since be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to vote incorporation to hold a poll on every resolution at Annual either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to General Meetings and Extraordinary General Meetings.
exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation Shares are held by the trustee on behalf of employees in to shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently respect of the Groups Share Incentive Plan.
The voting rights payable by him her to the Company in respect of that share attached to such shares are not directly exercisable by the remains unpaid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to employees.
The employee may direct the trustee on how to vote if he she has been served with a notice after failing to vote at the AGM and the trustee may only cast its vote in provide the Company with information concerning interests respect of shares voting rights over which it has received in those shares required to be provided under the a valid direction from employees.
Interests in voting rights As at 18 February 2014, the Company has been notified, in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Number of voting rights in qualifying % of the Date last TR1 Number of voting Number of voting financial Total number of issued share i Notification made rights directly held rights indirectly held instruments voting rights held capital held Invesco plc 31.01.2014 108,558,665 108,558,665 26.96% Artemis Investment Management LLP 10.02.2014 19,257,920 1,959,839 21,217,759 5.27% Schroders plc 07.11.2013 19,063,586 19,063,586 4.74% AXA S. A.
Drax Group plc 71 Annual report and accounts 2013 Other significant agreements Auditors and the disclosure of information to the auditor Under a 100 million amortising term loan facility agreement So far as each person who is a director at the date of dated 20 December 2012 between, amongst others, Drax approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit Finance Limited and the Prudential M&G UK Companies information, being information needed by the auditor in Financing Fund, on a change of control, if any lender requires, connection with preparing the report, of which the auditor is it may by giving notice to Drax Finance Limited and the facility unaware.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each agent within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Finance director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken Limited that a change of control has occurred, cancel its as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information and commitments and require the repayment of its share of any to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
This outstanding amounts within three business days of such information is given and should be interpreted in accordance cancellation notice being given.
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
Under a 50 million amortising term loan facility agreement In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act, dated 20 December 2012 between, amongst others, Drax a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the Finance Limited and the Green Investment Bank, on a change reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the auditor of the Group.
of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving notice to Drax A resolution will also be proposed authorising the directors to Finance Limited and the facility agent within 30 days of determine the auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee receiving notice from Drax Finance Limited that a change of reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditors control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require the effectiveness and relationship with the Group, including the repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor.
Further three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
details on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 73 to 76.
Under a 400 million revolving credit facility agreement dated 20 December 2012 between, amongst others, Drax Power Directors report Limited and Barclays Bank PLC as facility agent, on a The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the change of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving group, together with the financial statement and auditors notice to Drax Power Limited and the facility agent within report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Corporate 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Power Limited that governance section set out on pages 64 to 71 forms part of a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments this report.
and require the repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation No significant events since the balance sheet date have notice being given.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company and details of research and Under a 75 million guarantee issued by The Lords development activities are included in the Strategic report on Commissioners of Her Majestys Treasury dated 23 April 2013 pages 1 to 57. in respect of a 75 million guaranteed loan note instrument issued by Drax Finance Limited to Friends Life Limited, on a Information about the use of financial instruments by the change of control, if the guarantor requires, it may by giving Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 19 to the notice to Drax Finance Limited within 30 days of receiving consolidated financial statements.
notice from Drax Finance Limited that a change of control has occurred, require redemption of the outstanding loan notes and repayment of any outstanding amounts due under the guarantee within three business days of such notice being given.
Under the terms of the above credit facility agreements, Philip Hudson a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons Company Secretary acting in concert gains control of Drax Group plc.
18 February 2014 There are no other significant agreements to which the Group Registered office: is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Drax Power Station control of the Group following a takeover bid.
Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Registered in England and Wales No.
5562053 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
