Geoff Cooper Committee memberships Non-Executive Chairman Audit Committee member Key strengths: A current CEO with extensive experience in international general management, the retail sector, finance and Nominations Committee member IT.
Long-standing plc experience and shareholder Remuneration Committee member understanding.
Dunelm role: Chairs the Board.
Member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees and attends Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation.
Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Leads investor presentations and attends shareholder meetings.
Formerly a Director of Gateway subsequently Somerfield plc.
Then Finance Director and subsequently Deputy Chief Executive of Alliance UniChem plc.
Other Commitments: Chief Executive of Travis Perkins plc: Non-Executive Chairman of Bourne Leisure Holdings Limited.
Bill AdderleyFounder and Life President Together with his wife Jean, founded the business in 1979.
Although no longer on the Board or actively involved in management, Bill and Jean remain major shareholders.
34 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information 2.
Marion Sears Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Senior Independent Director Key strengths: Finance background, plc board experience and Chair of Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
shareholder understanding, predominantly in retail.
Strong Key strengths: Extensive City, investor and banking experience process and operational focus.
Knowledge and experience of including mergers and acquisitions.
Customer focused and e-commerce and Continental European retail markets.
Long-standing plc experience and shareholder Dunelm role: Leads the Group and chairs the Executive Board.
In addition to his Board role, provides liaison with the Dunelm role: Regularly visits stores to meet store staff and Remuneration Committee for pay below Board level.
members of the senior management team.
Together with the Joined Dunelm Board: August 2009 as an Independent Chairman, takes specific responsibility for co-ordinating the Non-Executive Director.
Appointed as CEO-designate in Boards corporate governance duties and for liaising with December 2010 and became CEO in February 2011. shareholders on corporate governance matters.
Attends investor presentations and shareholder meetings.
Early career in blue chip FMCG retail businesses such as Cadbury and Boots.
Formerly Finance Director of Halfords Group plc.
Previous Experience: Robert Fleming, JP Morgan Investment Other Commitments: None.
Other Commitments: Non-Executive Director of Persimmon plc, Fidelity European Values plc and Octopus AIM and 3.
Executive Deputy Chairman Key strengths: Has worked in and is familiar with, all parts of 7.
Specific product strengths in buying and trading Non-Executive Director with strong and long-standing supplier relationships.
Has been instrumental in growing the Group to its current size having, Chair of Audit and Risk Committee.
as the former CEO, developed the out-of-town format in the Key strengths: A current CEO with extensive general late 1990s.
management experience in retail with focus on HR, marketing, Dunelm role: Member of the Nominations Committee and trading and customer service.
A successful track record of attends Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
A building a branded out-of-town retail group nationwide in the major shareholder, who spends his time on strategic activities UK with a strong service offer.
Experience of the private equity which protect and enhance shareholder value and embed the industry and business model.
Dunelm role: Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues Joined Dunelm Board: 1992, and has worked for Dunelm for his and members of the senior management team.
He took over the day-to-day running of the Group presentations and shareholder meetings.
Chairs the Audit and from his father in 1996.
Remained as Chief Executive through Risk Committee.
Became Deputy Chairman in February Joined Dunelm Board: February 2012.
CEO of Pets Previous Experience: All parts of Dunelms business.
Other Commitments: Chief Executive Officer of Halfords Group plc 4.
David Stead Executive Finance Director 8.
Liz Doherty Key strengths: Finance background and extensive plc Non-Executive Director experience.
Understanding of investor community and Key strengths: A former CFO with extensive operational company secretarial matters.
An experienced strategic and experience in international consumer and retail businesses, financial perspective across all Group functions.
specifically with brands, marketing and online.
Long-standing Dunelm role: Leads the finance and HR departments, as well as plc experience and shareholder understanding.
taking responsibility for a number of cross-functional initiatives.
Dunelm role: Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues Participates in Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation and members of the senior management team.
Attends investor and sits on the Executive Board.
Formerly 14 years Previous Experience: Qualified accountant.
Finance Director of at Boots where he was Finance Director of Boots The Chemists Reckitt Benckiser plc, Brambles Limited Australia and Group and Finance Director of Boots Healthcare International.
International Finance Director of Tesco plc.
Other Commitments: Non-Executive Director of Nokia Corporation and Delhaize Group.
Dawn Durrant Key strengths: A current CEO with extensive general Company Secretary management experience in a retail model, customer service and Key strengths: Extensive plc company secretarial and legal hospitality expertise.
Long-standing plc experience and experience including corporate governance, legal and shareholder understanding.
regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, company and Dunelm role: Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues commercial, retail and consumer law.
and members of the senior management team.
Attends investor Dunelm role: Responsible for governance, legal and regulatory presentations and shareholder meetings.
Joined Dunelm: November 2011 Previous Experience: Sales and marketing, customer service Previous Experience: Qualified as a solicitor at Allen & Overy.
and general management in the brewing and hospitality sector.
Company Secretary of Geest plc.
Other Commitments: Chief Executive of Fuller Smith and Other Commitments: None.
Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 35
