Audit and Risk Committee report 2012 13 summary Principal activities - Committee renamed Audit and Risk Committee and terms of reference widened - Internal audit programme established - Decision to tender statutory audit in 2013 14 This report provides details of the role of the Audit and Risk Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the Committee is to oversee the integrity of the Groups financial statements and public announcements relating to financial performance, to oversee the audit process, monitor the effectiveness of financial controls and the process for identifying and managing risk throughout the Group.
In February 2013, the Committee was renamed the Audit and Risk Committee, and its terms of reference updated to include a formal review of the Boards risk appetite.
These changes reflect the increasing role that the Committee is undertaking in the oversight of risk in the business.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found via the Groups website, www.
The Committee has approved a policy which allows employees to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without fear of discrimination.
The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Member Period from: To: Matt Davies Chair 8 February 2012 To date Marion Sears 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Finance Director, the Chief Executive and the Chairman of the Board usually attend meetings by invitation, along with a representative from the external auditors.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial experience by virtue of my professional qualification and my executive role as Chief Executive of Halfords Group plc.
Committee activities in 2012 13 Two meetings were held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
Member Meetings attended: Matt Davies 2 Marion Sears 2 Simon Emeny 2 1 Liz Doherty 0 1 There was no Committee meeting between the appointment of Liz Doherty on 1 May 2013 and the period end.
During the year the activities of the Committee included: Routine items Approval of the full year results issued in September 2012 and the half year results issued in February 2013. Review of the process for identifying and managing risk within the business in September 2012, including a review of the risk register, and a mid year update of these in February 2013.
Verification of the independence of the auditor and approval of the scope of the audit plan and the audit fee.
Review and confirmation of the Groups policy for use of the auditors for non-audit work please see below.
Review of fraud and Bribery Act controls are standing agenda items for each meeting.
Specific topics Following our annual review of the requirement for an internal audit function, a programme of internal audit work has been agreed please see below.
The schedule of risk topics to be considered in-depth at Board meetings was updated, in the period they included cyber security, IT disaster planning and Bribery Act compliance.
It was agreed that the Board should specifically consider the risk appetite of the Group this happened as part of the Boards annual strategy review in May and will be monitored by the Committee.
We considered the draft proposals by the United Kingdom Financial Reporting Council and by the European Union that would require companies to tender their external auditor and decided to tender the audit in 2013 14.
External auditor The Group reappointed KPMG Audit plc as external auditor for the financial year ended 29 June 2013.
The Group paid KPMG 76,900 in relation to the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries pursuant to legislation.
44 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information The Committee had the opportunity to meet privately with the auditors during the period.
Use of auditors for non-audit work The Committee is aware that the use of audit firms for non-audit work is a sensitive issue for our shareholders and corporate governance analysts, as it could potentially give rise to a conflict of interest.
Our policy is simple we will only use auditors for non-audit work if: they offer demonstrably better capability than alternative providers: and there is no potential conflict with the independence of the audit.
We have a relatively flat management structure and all work commissioned by our auditor is required to be sanctioned by the Finance Director, who consults with the Committee Chairman if the fee involved is significant or if there are any issues regarding independence.
Therefore we do not consider that any more complex guidelines are needed.
During the year, our audit fee was 76,900 and fees for work carried out by KPMG on other projects were 154,917 broken down as follows: Project Fee Comment Tax advice on 65,000 KPMG advised on the previous return of cash in 2010 and therefore had the most relevant return of capital via expertise of this specific structure B C share scheme Capital Allowances 51,567 KPMG have previous relevant experience of the business thereby providing demonstratively Project better value in a tender process Tax Compliance 29,600 KPMG have previous relevant experience of the business and so were the most appropriate partner Miscellaneous 5,000 KPMG have knowledge gained though previous tax projects and so were the most appropriate Tax Advice partner Other 3,750 KPMG have previous relevant experience of the business and so were the most appropriate partner Fees for non-audit services therefore exceeded the audit fee, however this is mainly due to the use of KPMG to advise on our return of capital and the capital allowances project.
Non-audit fees are expected to return to a normal level In 2013 14.
Tender of external audit The Committee discussed the regulatory proposals that would require a compulsory tender of the statutory audit.
Whilst compulsory tendering is not yet required, the Committee nevertheless decided to initiate a tender process in respect of the 2013 14 statutory audit.
At least one firm outside the Big Four will be invited to participate in the tender process.
Internal audit Prior to 2013, the Committee considered that an internal audit function was not required in view of the adequacy of financial controls in place and the relatively low level of complexity in the business.
Given the continuing growth of the business in terms of both scale and complexity, in February 2013 the Committee agreed that a programme of internal audit work should be devised and implemented.
The work will be conducted either by an internal team that is independent of the activity under review, or by an external party, decided on a case by case basis.
In either case, the review will be conducted on behalf of the Committee and will report back to them.
The initial areas to be covered are: Review topic Reviewed by Processes for setting authority limits and ensuring adherence Internal team working alongside of the external auditors Adequacy of disaster planning and business continuity plans Specialist external business continuity consultants and procedures Ability to comply with mandatory carbon reporting requirements External auditors Compliance with PAYE, NI and other relevant employment taxes External accountancy firm This report was reviewed and approved by the Committee on 12 September 2013.
Matt Davies Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 12 September 2013 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 45
