Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information Letter from the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee We have reflected the external focus on management of risk by widening the terms of reference of the Committee.
Matt Davies Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Dear Shareholder, Much external discussion in relation to corporate governance in the past year has focused on management of risk and we have reflected this by renaming and widening the terms of reference of this Committee to encompass risk as well as audit.
This change formalises activities already in place, with the Committee taking oversight of the processes for managing risk and its standing agenda items already including topics such as fraud and Bribery Act.
As in previous years, we have reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
Recognising the increasing size and complexity of the business, we have decided that some element of assurance is now appropriate.
We have identified a series of areas to be reviewed and on which reports will be provided to the Committee, with the reviews being carried out by a combination of internal and external expertise, depending on the subject matter.
We consider that this approach will be both flexible and cost effective.
The Committee is aware of a growing trend towards rotation of external auditors.
It is our intention to invite tenders for the 2013 14 audit.
Finally, shareholders will note that this year advisory fees paid by us to KPMG, our auditor, exceeded the audit fee.
This was principally due to advice taken to help us structure and implement the B C share scheme used to return capital to shareholders in November 2012.
KPMG advised on the similar return of capital in 2010 and so were in the best position to help us.
In addition, there was a specific project on capital allowances.
The level of advisory fees paid to KPMG in the period was 154,917 versus the audit fee of 76,900.
The committee considered that the independence of the audit was not affected, and I expect non-audit fees to return to a normal level from 2013 14.
I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM.
Yours sincerely, Matt Davies Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 12 September 2013.
Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 43
