Corporate governance report We believe that sound Governance is an essential requirement for long-term sustainable growth.
2012 13 summary Principal activities - Full compliance with the Corporate Governance Code during the period - Liz Doherty appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director - Corporate Governance presentation to investors held in January 2013 - Audit Committee becomes Audit and Risk Committee and specific Board consideration of risk appetite - External Board evaluation conducted - All Directors submitted for reappointment at the AGM - Corporate website refreshed and content expanded - Investor engagement policy formalised - Further engagement with proxy advisers - Rule 9 waiver approved to enable share buybacks: furtherapproval sought at this years AGM Overview Our approach to governance can be summarised as follows: We believe that good governance leads to stronger value creation and lower risks for shareholders.
We support corporate governance guidelines and seek to apply them in a way that is meaningful to our business and consistent with our culture and values.
If we decide that the interests of the Company and its shareholders can be better served by doing things in a different way, we will explain the reasons why.
We believe that the Boards governance role includes to instil and maintain a culture of honesty, integrity and transparency throughout the business, through our policies, communications and by the way in which we act.
For more information please see the copy of the presentations that we made to our major institutional investors and shareholder representatives in January 2012 and 2013, available in the Reports and Presentations section of our corporate website.
Code compliance This report explains how we have applied the principles of good governance and code of best practice set out in the Corporate Governance Code the Corporate Governance Code published inJune2010.
At the end of the financial year, the Board considers that it is fully compliant with the Corporate Governance Code.
Board role and composition The role of the Board is to set the strategy that will secure the continued growth of the Group over the long term in the interests of its shareholders, whilst preserving and enhancing our culture.
In doing so we take account of our responsibilities to colleagues, customers, the community in which we operate and the interests of our other stakeholders.
Within this context, the Board has overall responsibility for controlling the Group, making decisions relating to the Groups strategic direction and measuring progress towards strategic goals.
Board balance and committee membership is fully compliant with the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code.
The names and roles of each of the Directors are set out in the table below.
Liz Doherty was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013.
The Board considers that Geoff Cooper was independent on appointment and that Marion Sears, Simon Emeny, Matt Geoff Cooper Chair Independent Executives NonExecutives Will Adderley Nick Wharton David Stead Marion Sears Matt Davies Simon Emeny Deputy Chair Chief Executive Finance Director Senior NonExecutive NonExecutive Independent Director Director Director Liz Doherty NonExecutive Director 36 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information Davies and Liz Doherty are independent.
Overall the Board considers that there is a good balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Two directors, Geoff Cooper and Marion Sears, will have served nine years on the Board during the 2013 14 financial year seven years since flotation of the Company.
The Board has specifically considered whether they continue to exhibit independence of character and judgement, and confirmed that they do.
As noted in the report of the Nominations Committee, Board refreshment is a continued area of focus and the tenure of Directors is being considered as we manage succession over the next few years.
Our policy on Board diversity is explained in the Nominations report.
The Board has adopted written statements setting out the respective responsibilities of the Chairman, Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive: these are available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
In general terms, the Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business, supported by the Executive Deputy Chairman who focuses specifically on strategic activities which protect and enhance shareholder value and embed the Groups culture and values.
Board attendance The Board held eight meetings in the course of the year, one of which was dedicated to a formal review of strategy.
Attendance at meetings was as follows: Meetings Director Role attended: Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman 8 Marion Sears Senior Independent Director and Chair of Remuneration and Nominations Committees 8 2 Will Adderley Executive Deputy Chairman 7 Simon Emeny Independent Non-Executive Director 8 Nick Wharton Chief Executive 8 David Stead Finance Director 8 2 Matt Davies Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit and Risk Committee 7 1 Liz Doherty Independent Non-Executive Director 2 1 Liz Doherty attended all Board meetings since her appointment.
2 Directors make every effort to attend all meetings.
A number of meetings needed to be rearranged during the year, and unfortunately Matt Davies and Will Adderley were each unable to attend one meeting.
They still received the Board papers, and passed on comments in advance of the meeting via the Chairman.
Board activities There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision or approval, which is available on the Groups website or from the Strategy Risk review Company Secretary.
Examples of such matters include Group strategy and budget, Budget Risk appetite Group capital structure, approval of financial Board balance results and report and accounts, significant Health and safety and diversity capital or contractual commitments, maintaining internal control and risk Bribery Act Board and senior management and approval of significant management succession Group-wide policies.
IT security At each meeting, the Chief Executive and the Return of cash Treasury policy to shareholders Finance Director report on operational performance including health and safety Areas of focus and the Finance Director reports on financial Competitor activity performance.
There is a rolling agenda of Customer survey other operational, strategic and risk topics AGM voting and mystery shop which is regularly refreshed to reflect the and feedback most up to date strategy and live issues in Colleague engagement survey the business.
The principal topics discussed Multichannel development Investor feedback by the Board in 2012 13 were: Brand awareness via advisers Refocus of store colleague activities Corporate Governance Areas of Focus presentation Direct sourcing Strategic New product Risk development Operational Assurance Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 37 Board Corporate governance report continued Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the Company Secretary and committee secretary respectively and circulated for approval.
Any unresolved concerns raised by a Director are recorded in the minutes.
Non-Executive Director Meetings The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors met twice during the year without Executive Directors being present and regularly have informal individual meetings with the Executive Directors and other senior managers in the business, usually at a store location.
In addition the Non-Executive Directors meet at least once a year without the Chairman present as part of the Board effectiveness review process, which includes a formal review of the Chairmans performance.
Board committees The Board has appointed three committees, an Audit and Risk Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference of each of these committees can be found on the Groups website and are available from the Company Secretary.
During the period, the Audit Committee was renamed the Audit and Risk Committee and its terms of reference were widened, to reflect its increased focus on management of risk.
Details of the membership of the committees and of their activities during the past financial year can be found in the reports from the Chair of each of the committees on pages 43 to 59.
Training and induction Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a comprehensive and tailored induction programme with visits to key sites and meetings with senior managers and other colleagues.
For example, on appointment Liz Doherty was given access to recent Board and Committee papers, including strategy documentation.
She met with each of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and visited a store with the Senior Independent Director.
She toured the Groups warehouse with the Board in July, and will take part in the store visit programme described below.
As part of each Directors annual review any additional training or development needs are addressed.
Please see the Directors biographies on pages 34 and 35 for details of the specific skills and experience of each Director.
Throughout the year all Directors have visited stores both informally and together with members of the senior management team.
Feedback is given at the following Board meeting.
Two Board meetings were also held near a store Oxford and Kettering and were followed by a store tour.
The Company Secretary reports monthly to the Board on new legal, regulatory and governance developments that affect the Group and actions are agreed where needed.
The Board also received presentations from independent advisers on financial and governance issues.
Directors attend seminars and tutorials provided by independent organisations which cover the whole range of governance topics.
Evaluation Each of the Directors receives a formal evaluation of their performance during the year.
The Board and Committees are also formally evaluated as a whole.
Actions implemented during the period as a result of our 2012 evaluation included: Board agenda was refocused on significant strategic and decision items.
We reviewed how the Board communicates with our stakeholders and considered it to be appropriate.
Succession planning below Board level was considered.
This year Condign Board Consulting, an independent third party provider of Board evaluation services, was appointed to carry out our first external evaluation.
Condign had no previous business relationship with the Group or any of the Directors and it is not intended that they be engaged to provide services of any other type to the Company in the future.
The evaluation consisted of individual interviews with each Director and the Company Secretary, attendance at a Board meeting as an observer and review of Board packs.
The evaluation confirmed that: The Board is operating effectively and is closely aligned to the culture of the business.
Appropriate balance is being achieved between governance, strategic and operational matters.
NED succession planning is still an important area of focus.
Agreed actions planned as a result of the evaluation include: The Board succession plan will remain a regular Board agenda item alongside formal Nominations Committee meetings.
More time to be spent defining the Boards risk appetite.
Contacts between NEDs and between NEDs and Executive Directors Executive Board members, to be timetabled formally.
38 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information Investor relations and understanding shareholder views We formalised our Investor Relations Strategy in 2013 and it is available on our corporate website.
The main elements are: Event Company attendees Results presentation Presented by Chief Executive and Finance Director Twice a year Attended by all Directors Meetings with institutional investors roadshow Chief Executive and Finance Director Twice a year Chairman and NonExecutive Directors attend a selection of meetings Adderley family dinner All Directors and Company Secretary Twice a year AGM All Directors and Company Secretary Once a year Corporate governance presentation Chairman and NonExecutive Directors Usually once a year Representative of the Adderley family Analyst and shareholder presentation at store Chief Executive and Finance Director Every two or three years Other senior managers The Chief Executive and the Finance Director report back to the Board after the investor roadshows.
The Groups brokers also provide a written feedback report and attend a Board meeting annually to discuss investor views.
The Corporate Governance presentation was hosted by Geoff Cooper, the Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors in January 2013, with the Deputy Chairman Will Adderley representing the Adderley family shareholding.
14 institutional investors and investor representatives attended.
The presentation covered our approach to corporate governance, risk, audit, remuneration, nominations, corporate social responsibility, changes since last year and live issues.
We find this a useful way to communicate and exchange views outside the busy pre AGM period, and it has been well received by attendees.
We also offered to meet with the main proxy advisers and Marion Sears, the Senior Independent Director and Dawn Durrant, the Company Secretary, met with two of them separately to explain our governance approach.
We upgraded our corporate website in September, to make it more user-friendly and also to add information and policies in relation to governance and corporate social responsibility.
com All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting to meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
Rule 9 waiver We will be requesting authority to buy back up to 5m shares 2.5% of our share capital at the AGM.
As our Deputy Chairman, Will Adderley, has a beneficial interest in 30.48% of our share capital, in order to exercise this right we have to ask shareholders to approve a waiver of Rule 9 of the Takeover Code, which would otherwise require him to make an offer to buy all of the shares in the Company.
We understand that a number of shareholders have concerns about Rule 9 waivers in general, as they can lead to major shareholders gaining creeping control: as a result they automatically vote against the resolution.
We would like to reassure shareholders that: Shares bought back by the Company would be held in treasury and used only to satisfy share option entitlements, and not cancelled.
From 2012, Will Adderley no longer participates in the Long Term Incentive Plan and therefore his shareholding will not increase through that mechanism.
Since flotation of the Company in 2006, the Adderley family has reduced its holding from 67% to just over 54% currently.
There has been a Relationship Agreement in place since flotation which provides safeguards to other shareholders for details please see the Directors Report on page 60.
We therefore request that shareholders take into account our specific circumstances when making their voting decision in relation to the waiver resolution.
Significant shareholders The Groups significant shareholders are listed in the Directors report on page 62 and voting rights are stated on page 60.
Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 39 Corporate governance report continued Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public company to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of individual Directors where the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
The Companys Articles of Association give the Board this authority subject to the following safeguards: Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain from voting.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of interest and, in taking that decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
All Directors are required to disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the Board and the following existing conflicts have been considered and approved: Will Adderley is a major shareholder and connected to other major shareholders.
Authorised on the basis that Mr Adderley continues to abide by the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered into between himself, other major shareholders and the Company on flotation of the Company in 2006.
Geoff Cooper is a Director of Travis Perkins plc which potentially competes with the Company for retail property.
Authorised on the basis that Mr Cooper is not involved in day to day decisions in relation to the property portfolio in either Company.
There were no other matters disclosed that are considered by the Board to give rise to a conflict of interest.
Any conflicts are considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board considers that its procedures to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by the Board so long as the Director stands down and offers himself for election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at least every three years.
The Board has decided to adopt the requirement of the Corporate Governance Code, that all Directors should stand down and offer themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Directors may be removed by a special resolution of shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles also provide that the office of a Director shall be vacated if he is prohibited by law from being a Director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that his office be vacated if he is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Powers of Directors The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject to the requirements of the Companies Act, the Articles of Association of the Company and any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority in accordance with the Code and these set out matters which are reserved to the Board or committees and the powers and duties of the Chairman, the Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive respectively.
At the Annual General Meetings of the Company from 2007 onwards, the Board sought and was given authority to issue shares and to buy back and reissue shares.
Similar resolutions are being tabled at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, together with a waiver of any obligation of Will Adderley under the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers to make an offer for all of the shares of the Company if the authority to buy back shares is used.
Any shares bought back would be held in treasury for reissue to employees who exercise options under one of the Groups share incentive schemes.
For further details see the Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this report.
Advice and insurance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
In addition Directors may seek legal advice at the Groups cost if they consider it necessary in connection with their duties.
The Group purchases Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover for its Directors.
40 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of shareholders.
Governance and risk Risk is a whole Board matter for Dunelm.
We do not have a separate Risk Committee, although we have renamed our Audit Committee as the Audit and Risk Committee, to reflect the additional risk activities that it is undertaking.
We believe that risk is best managed by a combination of the following: Formal risk management processes as described in this report.
The Board and senior management leading by example.
Embedding our culture and ethics.
Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report there has been in place an established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The process has been reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control for Directors.
The diagram below sets out how responsibility for risk management is allocated.
Board Collective responsibility for Formal risk review twice annually managing risk Consideration of what keeps us awake at night Standard agenda items Regular timetabled presentations Regular Deep Dive reviews Monitor KPIs through Board reports Executive members have line responsibility for managing specific risks Audit and Risk Oversees risk management Formal risk review twice annually Committee process Selects topics for Deep Dive reviews Executive Board Members have line responsibility Periodic review of risk register for managing specific risk areas Participate in annual risk review process Risk management is a collective Board responsibility.
Risks are reviewed formally twice a year and separately management consider what keeps us awake at night.
Important risk topics are covered in-depth either by regular timetabled presentations e. g. health and safety, by Deep Dive discussions e. g. supply chain security, or regularly as a standard agenda item e. g. competitor activity.
In addition, KPIs covering risk topics are contained in the standard reports presented at each meeting.
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing the risk management framework.
Risks are reviewed by the Committee formally twice a year.
Risk topics selected by the Audit and Risk Committee are considered in-depth at Board meetings, supported by a paper prepared by the relevant executive.
In the period topics covered included IT disaster planning, cyber security and Bribery Act compliance.
In February, we revised the terms of reference of the Audit Committee and renamed it the Audit and Risk Committee, to reflect the increasing onus on Boards to understand and manage risk.
We did consider whether a separate risk committee should be formed, but decided against this in the light of the size of the Board and our belief that the Board as a whole is responsible for managing risk.
A register of major strategic and operational risks is maintained.
Each risk is documented, together with the mitigating factors and controls in place to manage it.
Risks are assessed in terms of impact and likelihood and the top 10 risks are identified for specific focus.
A member of the Executive Board is allocated responsibility for management of each risk.
The Executive Board reviews the risk register periodically throughout the year.
It is presented twice per annum to the Audit and Risk Committee and key risks and mitigating actions are taken on to the Board agenda for monitoring as appropriate.
Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 41 Corporate governance report continued Internal control and internal audit The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The diagram below summarises the Groups system.
Board Audit and Risk Executive Board Internal Audit Operational Committee Programme Audit Team Collective responsibility Oversees effectiveness of Responsible for Reviews specific Reviews compliance for internal control internal control operating within the matters selected by with certain internal control framework the Audit and Risk procedures in store Formal list of matters Approves internal Reviews and monitors Committee and at other locations reserved for decision audit programme compliance with by the Board Receives reports from policies and Control framework auditors procedures Recommends changes setting out Receives reports responsibilities generated through the to controls policies where needed Approval of key internal audit policies and programme Monitors performance procedures Monitors performance The system of internal control comprises: A list of matters specifically reserved for Board approval, for example significant capital expenditure.
A well-established control framework comprising clear structures and accountabilities for colleagues, well understood policies and procedures and budgeting and review processes.
Each Head of Department and store manager has clear responsibilities and operates within defined policies and procedures covering such areas as financial targets, human resources management, customer service, health and safety.
The Executive Directors and Executive Board monitor compliance with these policies and procedures in the course of regular reviews.
In addition there is a rolling programme of review of store compliance by the operational audit team.
The Audit and Risk Committee has oversight of the system of internal controls and of the internal audit programme see below and receives the report of the external auditor following the annual statutory audit.
In February 2013, the Audit and Risk Committee reconsidered whether an internal audit function is required.
In previous years the Committee has not considered this to be necessary in view of the adequacy of internal and risk management controls and reporting in place, the relatively low level of complexity in the business and the close involvement of the Executive Directors in the operation of the business.
This assessment was supported by KPMG.
However, as the business grows in size and complexity, the Committee has decided that some internal audit activities should be undertaken.
These could be carried out either by external or internal teams, reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The programme will be in place from 2013 14 and will initially cover topics including business continuity, compliance with delegated authorities and employment taxes.
Please note that internal control systems such as this are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute, assurance against material loss or accounting misstatement.
Bribery Act 2010 Following the coming into force of the Bribery Act in July 2011, we have reviewed the procedures in place to ensure that we are able to comply with its requirements.
Actions taken include: Anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy implemented.
The policy on acceptance of gifts and other privileges has been updated and a formal procedure has been implemented for signing off and logging hospitality.
Executive Board members and Heads of Department have received training and also signed a declaration of compliance, which is an annual process.
Standard terms and conditions for suppliers include a Bribery Act clause.
The Whistleblowing Policy refers specifically to the Bribery Act.
Actions taken in the past financial year include: Training extended to the whole of the Buying, Merchandising and Quality teams.
Formalising agreement terms with certain high risk partners.
Induction for relevant individuals to include a briefing on policy requirements.
42 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013
