Nominations Committee report 2012 13 summary Principal activities - Appointment of Liz Doherty as Non-Executive Director - Detailed review of Board skills and experience repeated - Update of Board succession plan - Evaluation conducted as part of our first external Board Evaluation This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and conducting a rigorous and transparent process when new appointments to the Board are made.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website.
The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Member Period from: To: Marion Sears Chair 18 January 2005 To date Geoff Cooper 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date Will Adderley 17 February 2011 To date Matt Davies 8 February 2012 To date Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date The NED search process, and succession planning as part of this, was discussed by the whole Board at every Board meeting with an update paper provided by myself.
However there were two formal Committee meetings held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
I also act as Secretary to the Committee.
Member Meetings attended: Marion Sears Chair 2 Geoff Cooper 2 Simon Emeny 2 Will Adderley 2 Matt Davies 2 1 Liz Doherty 0 1There were no meetings between 1 May when Liz Doherty joined the Board and the year end.
General succession planning The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board as a whole and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the Directors.
On at least an annual basis each Directors intentions are discussed with regard to serving on the Board and their succession is considered in the context of the shape of the overall Board and the corporate governance guidance on Non-Executive Director tenure.
This transparency amongst a small and collegiate Board allows for an open discussion about succession for each individual, both for short-term emergency purposes as well as longer-term plans.
While all Board appointment processes and succession discussions are led by the Nominations Committee these are viewed as important whole-Board topics and no appointment will be made to the Board without agreement of all Directors.
Committee activities in 2012 13 NED search With three of our Non-Executives completing six years on the Board since IPO in 2012 3, as stated last year the Committee has been mindful of the need to keep the Board composition fresh.
Much of the Committees activities during the year were therefore focused on our search for a new Non-Executive Director.
Following our detailed review of the skills and balance on the Board, and our likely needs in the context of our strategy going forward, we drew up a role and person specification for which the main requirements were: Relevant experience in retail or similar business, including multi-channel.
Familiarity with the current challenges of operating management, including multi-channel and international.
Understanding of branding and marketing.
We also had regard to the requirement to achieve a diversity of characters, backgrounds and experiences amongst Board members.
In particular, we prioritised the appointment of a female candidate.
58 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information We decided not to appoint a single search firm to assist us as we were not under time pressure to make an appointment quickly and we believe there is value in searching widely through a variety of intermediaries without a preset timetable.
Instead we applied the requirements of best practice for open advertising by talking to a large number of contacts who know Dunelm and who understand our culture and ambitions.
These included several search agents, our advisers and some of our shareholders and we also asked our own networks for candidate suggestions.
As a result we held informal meetings with a very large number of people over the course of more than a year and we also screened existing Directors of FTSE 100 companies ourselves as a desk exercise to ensure that our search was sufficiently comprehensive and representative.
In April 2013 we were pleased to announce the appointment of Liz Doherty as an additional Non-Executive Director.
Liz was introduced to us by the search firm CT Partners Augmentum with whom Dunelm has no other relationship.
Liz has held a number of senior finance roles within significant international businesses.
Most recently, she was Finance Director of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
Prior to this, she was Finance Director of Brambles Limited Australia and Group International Finance Director of Tesco plc.
She started her career at Unilever plc, where she held a number of finance roles in the UK and Europe.
Liz is also a Non-Executive Director of Nokia Corporation and Delhaize Group and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Board succession As stated last year, we have a formal plan for how Board membership should develop over the coming years and we are taking actions to implement this.
Skills balance and Directors performance evaluation The Nominations Committee reviews Board composition and the balance of skills provided by the Directors in a whole Board session each year, in the light of the most recent strategy discussions.
In 2012 3 we repeated the detailed review conducted during 2011 12, and this has also been addressed in our external Board evaluation which is described in the Corporate Governance Report.
The outcome of this has been incorporated into our Board succession plan which will be discussed again by the Board in autumn 2013.
In addition to the external Board evaluation, the performance of all of the Directors has been assessed individually.
The Chairman of the Board led a process of collecting feedback on each Directors performance and provided them with a one-to-one evaluation and discussion of training needs.
As Senior Independent Director I collected feedback about the Chairman and provided him with an evaluation of his performance.
Diversity In 2011 we set out the Boards policy on diversity which we believe remains appropriate for Dunelm.
It can be summarised as follows: Whilst confirming that our overriding concern is to ensure the Board comprises outstanding individuals who can lead the Group, we also believe the Groups best interests are served by ensuring that these individuals represent a range of skills, experiences, backgrounds and perspectives, including gender.
Accordingly, it is our policy that the Board should always be of mixed gender.
Quotas are not appropriate as a target for female representation on company Boards, since they are likely to lead to compromised decisions on Board membership, quality and size.
We will seek to ensure that specific effort is made to bring forward female candidates for Board appointments.
We will monitor the Groups approach to people development to ensure that it continues to enable talented individuals, both male and female, to enjoy career progression activities within Dunelm.
Tenure and Re-election of Directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will seek re-election at the 2013 AGM.
Given that Geoff Cooper and I have been Board members since 2004, we have served nine years on the Board, seven of these following the Companys flotation in 2006.
In accordance with best practice, in 2013, our contracts will be renewed for a one year term, subject to earlier termination by notice and reappointment at the AGM.
Simon Emeny has entered a third term as Non-Executive Director which takes his tenure to 2016, and Matt Davies and Liz Doherty both remain within their first term.
Our main priority during this succession phase is to balance the changes with a period of time in between each appointment and departure.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 12 September 2013.
Marion Sears Chair of the Nominations Committee 12 September 2013 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 59
