Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee The majority of remuneration earned by the executives during the year was performance-based and resulted from strong operating performance.
Marion Sears Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, In the year to29 June 2013 there were no changes to executive remuneration policy other than the introduction of claw-back to unvested share options under performance-related pay.
The majority of remuneration earned by the executives during the year was performance-based and resulted from strong operating performance, reflected in our share price, which increased by 89% to 947p during the year.
Dunelm again performed well in a difficult retail market.
We exceeded budget EPS by 3.9% and the compound annual growth rate in EPS over the last three years has exceeded RPI by 10.4%.
Accordingly, the Directors will receive a bonus award of 97% of salary, and 86.7% of the LTIP award made in 2010 will vest.
Nick Wharton has been CEO since 2010 and this is the first LTIP to vest to him, making a significant increase in his total remuneration compared with previous years.
He will retain these vesting LTIP shares after sale of shares to cover his tax and national insurance liability as he builds towards his target shareholding of two times salary after five years.
We are again being fully transparent and following best practice by publishing the single number for remuneration for each of the Executive Directors.
We are increasingly conscious that Dunelms growth rate, which is faster than the market growth rate, means that our comparator peer group is changing significantly.
We will keep this under review and will consult shareholders over the implications of this if appropriate.
Looking forward, in 2013 14 the Executive Directors will receive a 2% increase in base salary, in line with the Group average, although Will Adderley has again declined this increase and will be paid the same base salary as last year and the year before.
The Non-Executive Directors fees have been increased with effect from 1 July 2013, for the first time since 2010, following a bench marking exercise.
We continue to position ourselves at median-or-below levels: the Chairmans fee is now 120,000 per year and the standard Non-Executive fee is 40,000 per year with an additional 5,000 fee for committee chairmanship.
Going forward, Non-Executive Director fees will increase annually in line with the Company average.
The Remuneration Committee has also introduced two refinements to executive performance related pay with effect from 1 July 2013 to ensure we remain in line with best practice.
For annual bonus, the performance condition continues to be calculated according to the same formula as before, but progress on strategic development of the business will be used to inform the discretionary element relating to personal objectives.
For the LTIP we have introduced a two year deferral period which will be added onto the unchanged three year performance testing period.
The purpose of both of these changes is to focus management attention firmly on long-term strategy implementation and to align management with long-term shareholders interests.
I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM in November.
Yours sincerely, Marion Sears Chair of the Remuneration Committee 12 September 2013 46 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013
