Governance Corporate governance report information in a timely manner covering matters Principles statement easyJet is committed to meeting the required which are to be considered.
The Non-Executive Directors have also met without any Executive standards of corporate governance.
Directors present during the year.
At our Annual Statement of compliance General Meeting in February 2013, all of the The version of the Corporate Governance Code Directors were put up for re-election as required applicable to the current reporting period is the by the Code and we anticipate continuing to put September 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code all Directors up for re-election annually.
The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of Throughout the year ended 30 September 2013, the Groups business and has the powers and duties the Board considers that it and the Company have set out in the relevant laws of England and Wales complied without exception with the provisions and easyJet plcs Articles of Association.
The Code is issued by the Financial has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its Reporting Council and is available for review on decision which is available in the governance the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs website section of easyJets corporate website, http: www.
uk Our-Work Publications http: corporate.
This was reviewed Corporate-Governance  updated during the course of the year.
Day-to-day management responsibility rests with Leadership the Executive Management Team, listed on pages As at 30 September 2013, the Board comprised 62 and 63.
These ten individuals also make up the eight Non-Executive Directors including the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary Chairman and two Executive Directors.
of the main operating company, easyJet Airline Company Limited.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separated, set out in writing, clearly dened, The Directors attendance record at the scheduled and approved by the Board.
Board meetings and Board Committee meetings for the year ended 30 September 2013 is shown in Charles Gurassa lls the posts of Senior Independent the table below.
For Board and Board Committee Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman.
meetings, attendance is expressed as the number The Board meets regularly, with nine scheduled of meetings that each Director attended out of the meetings having been held during the year ended number that they were eligible to attend.
In addition 30 September 2013 with a further seven ad hoc to those scheduled meetings, ad hoc meetings meetings.
All members of the Board are supplied were also arranged to deal with matters between in advance with appropriate, clear and accurate scheduled meetings as appropriate.
Fleet Oversight and Audit Remuneration Finance Safety Nominations Governance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee maximum 9 maximum 3 maximum 4 maximum 5 maximum 4 maximum 5 maximum 9 Executive Directors Carolyn McCall OBE 9 9 3 1 3 4 2 3 Chris Kennedy 9 9 3 1 5 n a n a 9 Non-Executive Directors John Barton 1 May 2013 30 September 2013 5 5 1 n a n a n a n a n a Sir Michael Rake 1 October 2012 30 April 2013 4 4 n a n a n a n a n a n a Charles Gurassa 9 9 n a 4 4 n a n a 1 1 9 9 David Bennett 9 9 3 3 4 4 5 5 n a 5 5 8 9 Keith Hamill OBE 9 9 3 3 n a n a 4 4 n a n a John Browett 9 9 n a n a n a n a n a n a Rigas Doganis 9 9 n a 4 4 n a 4 4 5 5 n a Adle Anderson 9 9 3 3 n a 5 5 n a n a 9 9 Andy Martin 9 9 n a 4 4 4 5 n a 5 5 8 9 not a member of the Committee attendance at meeting by invitation Geoff Want the independent safety expert attended four out of four Safety Committee meetings easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 64 Governance to enable the Directors to discharge their respective Effectiveness After giving thorough consideration to the matter, duties and responsibilities effectively.
Commitment of time by all Directors for Board and Committee the Board considers Charles Gurassa, David Bennett, Keith Hamill, John Browett, Professor Rigas Doganis, meetings and other duties was also considered sufficient for the effective discharge of Adle Anderson and Andy Martin to be NonExecutive Directors who are independent in character responsibilities.
It was considered that, given that John Barton had held the position of Chairman for and judgement.
On appointment, the Board also considered the current Chairman to be independent less than six months, it would not be appropriate to have his performance as Chairman prior to in character and judgement.
The Board seeks to strike an appropriate balance between continuity of 30 September 2013 reviewed by the Senior Independent Director.
However, the Board has experience and succession, taking into account the underlying principles of the Code provisions regarding committed to appraising Johns performance prior to the end of his first full year as Chairman tenure and refreshing of the Board.
in accordance with provision A4.2 of the Code.
To update the Directors skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company, visits to network There has been a continued focus on the quality of bases are organised for the Board periodically to information being sent and presented to the Board assist their understanding of the operational issues to optimise its time and effectiveness.
significant that the business faces: the Board visited Charles technological improvements are being implemented fide Gaulle Airport, Paris in November 2012.
The around the new electronic portal for the Board.
This Board is also regularly kept up to date with will optimise the interface between the Board and developments in relevant law, regulation and best management and will improve the efficiency of the practice to maintain their skills and knowledge.
Consequently, a brieng paper ensuring Board Directors conicts of interest members are kept up to date on key administrative The Company has in place procedures for issues and changes in the law and best practice managing conicts of interest.
The Companys that affect Directors is produced and circulated Articles of Association also contain provisions to when required, usually two to four times per year.
allow the Directors to authorise potential conicts Directors are given the opportunity to highlight of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his specic areas where they feel their skills or or her duty under company law.
Should a Director knowledge would benefit from development become aware that they have an interest, directly as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
or indirectly, in an existing or proposed transaction Directors and ofcers insurance cover has been with easyJet, they should notify in line with the established for all Directors to provide cover against Companys Articles of Association.
Directors have a their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company.
continuing duty to update any changes to their A deed was executed in 2007 indemnifying each of conicts of interest.
the Directors of the Company and or its subsidiaries Board engagement with investors and relations as a supplement to the directors and ofcers with shareholders insurance cover.
The indemnities, which constitute a The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders qualifying third party indemnity provision as dened the opportunity to communicate directly with the by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were Board and encourages their participation.
The in force during the last financial year and remain in Chairman both current and previous and Deputy force for everyone who is or was a Director.
Chairman also being the Senior Independent Like last year, a performance review of the Board, Director have both held meetings with its key Committees and Directors was undertaken shareholders to help maintain a balanced using an external facilitator, Lintstock Limited.
understanding of the issues and concerns of major Lintstock Limited has no connection with the shareholders.
They have both updated the whole Company beyond evaluating the Board, other than Board on the results of these meetings and on the providing the Company with software to monitor opinions of investors.
The views of shareholders are insider lists and Directors shareholdings.
Face-to-face also regularly communicated to the Board as a interviews were conducted as part of the evaluation whole via a formal monthly report to the Board and process last year.
The process this year involved each regular verbal briengs.
Director and the Company Secretary completing a detailed questionnaire, tailored to reect the activities easyJet has an investor relations department which of the Board and its Committees during the year.
runs an active programme to facilitate engagement The Board considers that the performance review with investors.
The programme includes one-to-one shows that each Director continues to contribute meetings, visits to easyJets operations and effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
There is regular communication The review shows that there is an appropriate with institutional investors on key business issues.
balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity The investor relations website can be accessed at including gender and knowledge of the Company http: corporate.
com 65 Governance Corporate governance report continued During the course of the year the Chief Executive an AON Hewitt Company has been appointed as and Chief Financial officer have both met with easyJets remuneration consultants.
NBS are a representatives of easyGroup Holdings Limited, the member of the Remuneration Consultants Group Companys largest shareholder, to discuss relevant and comply with its code of conduct.
The Chief Financial officer has also met company in the AON Hewitt Group also conducted separately with representatives of easyGroup IP employee surveys for the Company: other than this, Licensing Limited an afliate of easyGroup Holdings NBS has no other connection with the Company.
Limited to discuss matters relating to the The Remuneration Committee has met four times management and protection of the easyJet and during the year.
Shareholders are required to approve all new Long Term Incentive Plans and significant changes Board Committees to existing plans.
Further details of these plans, as Audit Committee well as the activities undertaken by the Committee The Audit Committee comprises three independent during the year, can be found in the Directors Non-Executive Directors.
As at 30 September 2013, remuneration report as set out on pages 73 to 88. the Audit Committee members were David Bennett The full text of the terms of reference for the Chairman, Keith Hamill and Adle Anderson.
David Remuneration Committee is available in the Bennett has served as the Chairman of the governance section of easyJets corporate website, Committee throughout the year.
members have been selected to provide the wide range of financial and commercial expertise Finance Committee necessary to full the Committees duties.
David The Finance Committee comprises three Bennett was previously an Executive Director of independent Non-Executive Directors.
As at Abbey National plc, and prior to that the Group 30 September 2013, the Finance Committee Chief Executive and Group Finance Director of members were David Bennett Chairman, Adle Alliance & Leicester plc.
Keith Hamill has had Anderson and Andy Martin.
This Committee meets considerable experience as a Director of listed at least twice a year: this year it met five times.
The companies and was Finance Director of WHSmith, primary function of the Finance Committee is to Forte and United Distillers and a partner in Price review and monitor the Companys treasury policies Waterhouse from 1986 to 1988.
Examples of matters considered by was a partner in KPMG until July 2011 and held roles the Committee during the year include liquidity including Chief Financial officer of KPMG UK, Chief metrics, aircraft nancing and currency hedging.
Executive officer of KPMGs captive insurer and The terms of reference of the Finance Committee Chief Financial officer of KPMG Europe.
Adle are documented and agreed by the Board.
The full currently chairs the Audit Committee of Intu text of the terms of reference is available in the Properties plc.
The Board considers each Committee governance section of easyJets corporate website, members financial experience to be recent and http: corporate.
relevant for the purposes of the Code.
This Committee meets at least three times per year Safety Committee and, during the year ended 30 September 2013 The Safety Committee was set up in January 2013 the Committee met three times.
to consider matters relating to the operational safety of the Group.
The Committee comprises two The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors, and one documented and agreed by the Board.
The full text independent safety expert.
As at 30 September of the terms of reference is available in the 2013, the Safety Committee members were governance section of easyJets corporate website, Professor Rigas Doganis Chairman, Keith Hamill http: corporate.
and Geoff Want independent safety expert.
The Committee meets at least three times a year: this The Audit Committee report is set out on pages year it met four times.
The primary function of the 70 to 72.
Safety Committee is to assess the Companys Remuneration Committee oversight of safety systems, processes, operations As at 30 September 2013, the Remuneration and resources, and to review and monitor the Committee comprised four independent Nonimplementation of the Companys annual safety Executive Directors: Charles Gurassa Chairman, plan.
The Committee also examines specic safety David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis and Andy issues as requested by the Board.
This Committee, which meets at least twice appropriate, the Committee reviews relevant reports per year, is responsible for making recommendations published by the UK Air Accident Investigation to the Board concerning the compensation of senior Branch AAIB, major incidents that have affected executives.
It also determines, within agreed terms other operators, and other external reports on of reference, the specic remuneration packages for matters relevant to safety and security.
As was the each of the Executive Directors and the Chairman, case prior to the establishment of this Committee, as well as the level and structure of remuneration the Board continues to review and assess safety for senior management.
New Bridge Street NBS through monthly independent safety reports easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 66 Governance from the Director of Safety and Security, Captain effectively.
Johns wealth of plc board experience, David Prior.
Captain David Prior had, and continues valuable commercial and financial expertise and to have, a direct reporting line to the Chairman understanding of competitive service-oriented which reinforces the independence of safety consumer markets were factors in the oversight.
For further information on the safety Boardsdecision.
management system, please refer to page 45.
The Nominations Committee met five times during the year, four times to deal with the appointment Since its constitution, the Committee has reviewed of John Barton as Chairman.
During the period of a range of safety-related matters.
Some of these selecting a new Chairman, Charles Gurassa, who followed requests from the Board to carry out was also a candidate for the role, was replaced detailed reviews of specic operational incidents by David Bennett as Nominations Committee following up the regular safety reports provided to Chairman.
Charles Gurassa did not attend any the Board.
This included a review of the Companys of the meetings relating to the new Chairmans Just Culture.
The terms of reference of the Safety search and appointment.
The outgoing Chairman, Committee are documented and agreed by the Sir Michael Rake, was not involved in the Chairman Board.
The full text of the terms of reference is selection or appointment decision process.
available in the governance section of easyJets However, John Barton did request a meeting corporate website, http: corporate.
with Sir Michael Rake prior to accepting his Nominations Committee Chairman appointment as part of his own due As at 30 September 2013, the Nominations diligence process.
Committee members were Charles Gurassa During the year, other matters considered by Chairman, David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis the Committee included the consideration of and Andy Martin.
Andy Martin joined the Committee succession planning for the Board and the key in January 2013. skills and experience required for future recruits.
This Committee is responsible for nominating The assessment of succession planning will be candidates to ll Board positions and for making further developed during the course of next year.
recommendations on Board composition and The terms of reference of the Nominations balance.
In appointing Non-Executive Directors, Committee are documented and agreed by the the Boards practice is to use external recruitment Board.
The full text of the terms of reference is consultants: during the year terms were negotiated available in the governance section of easyJets with JCA Group to act as easyJets recruitment corporate website, http: corporate.
consultants for Board and senior executive posts.
Other than providing recruitment consultancy On joining the Board, new members receive a full services, JCA Group has no other connection and tailored induction.
Following this induction, with the Company.
meetings are arranged with key executives and managers within the business to provide ongoing The Committee adopts a formal, rigorous and education and information about the business.
transparent procedure for the appointment of new Shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet directors to the Board.
In January 2013, the Board new Directors.
Contracts and letters of appointment initiated a succession planning process to search for with Directors are made available at the Annual a new chairman led by the Nominations Committee.
General Meeting or on request.
The standard terms JCA Group was provided with a detailed brief of and conditions of the appointment of Nonthe desired candidate prole based on merit and Executive Directors are also available in the against objective criteria including an assessment governance section of easyJets corporate website, of the time commitment expected and their http: corporate.
services were used to conduct a thorough search to identify suitable candidates.
The Nominations The Board recognises the benets of having Committee considered a list of potential candidates diversity across all areas of the Group and believes and the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, that this adds to easyJets continued success and diversity including gender and experience on the advantage.
The boardroom diversity policy was Board to ensure that a suitable balance was introduced in 2012.
When considering the optimum maintained.
Those shortlisted were interviewed by make-up of the Board, the benets of diversity of members of the Board including the Nominations the Board are appropriately reviewed and balanced Committee and the Chief Executive.
Following this where possible, including in terms of differences in process, John Barton was invited to join the Board skills, industry experience, business model and to become easyJets Chairman in succession experiences, gender, race, disability, age, nationality, to Sir Michael Rake.
Johns other significant background and other contributions that individuals commitments were disclosed to the Board before may bring.
The Committee continues to focus on his appointment and can be found in his biography encouraging diversity of business skills and on page 60.
The Board was and continues to be experience, recognising that Directors with diverse satisfied that John would allocate sufficient time skill sets, capabilities and experience gained from to the Company to discharge his responsibilities different geographic and cultural backgrounds www.
com 67 Top down Feedback Governance Corporate governance report continued enhance the Board.
In identifying suitable Audit and independent third party reports candidates the Committee will seek candidates regarding the controls: the overall governance from a range of backgrounds, with the final decision arrangements: and the construction of financial being based on merit against objective criteria.
The models surrounding the process.
The Committee Company has two female Directors on its Board, remains constituted and will meet to provide one being the Chief Executive.
There are currently oversight of the procurement process in relation ten Directors of the Company.
Accordingly, women to the selection of the engine supplier for the new represent 20% of the Board, a percentage which generation aircraft order.
The Fleet Oversight and easyJet aspires to improve upon or at least to retain Governance Committee has met nine times during in the future.
Risk management In addition to board diversity, the Company The Board is responsible for determining the nature believes in promoting diversity at all levels of the and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take organisation, further details of which can be found in achieving its strategic objectives.
During 2013, in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 50. there was continued investment in and assessment Fleet Oversight and Governance Committee of the risk management process resulting in The Fleet Oversight and Governance Committee improved risk management understanding, was set up as a standing Committee in October assessment and reporting.
The process is 2012 and comprises four independent Nonunderpinned by rigorous annual risk identication Executive Directors.
As at 30 September 2013, workshops which were attended by the functional the Committee members were Charles Gurassa managers, the Executive Management Team and Chairman, David Bennett, Adle Anderson and the Board.
The process focuses on strategic, Andy Martin.
The purpose of the Committee is to financial and operational risks.
During the year, the provide independent oversight over the governance risk management process was specically enhanced and controls relating to easyJets eet order which by capturing key project, supplier and country base was approved by shareholders in July 2013.
Matters level risks at a granular level.
This process is considered by the Committee during the year coordinated by the Risk team who report to include reviews of the risk register: the Internal the Chief Financial officer.
Risk management PLC BOARD EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM TOP BUSINESS RISKS Filter Risk Evaluation Group STRATEGIC FUNCTIONAL COUNTRY KEY PROJECT KEY RISK RISK BASE RISK PROGRAMME SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT ASSESSMENT ASSESSMENT RISK ASSESSMENT RISK ASSESSMENT STRATEGIC OPERATIONAL Sponsorship and risk appetite assessment easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 68 Risk Identication & Assessment Challenge & Ownership Risk Prioritisation Governance To ensure that risk is managed effectively, a number to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure of key activities are undertaken, as dened by the to achieve business objectives.
By their nature, Executive Directors: they can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
ongoing risk management and assurance is The Board has conducted an annual review of provided through the various monitoring reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control and reporting mechanisms that are embedded during the year, under the auspices of the Audit into the business operations.
This included systems and controls reviews include those conducted continuously in relation to financial reporting processes and in weekly operational meetings.
In addition, the in preparing the accounts.
The Internal Financial Safety Action Group SAG meets monthly to Control monitoring programme, administered by discuss safety, security and environmental risks Internal Audit, has continued to enhance the review and the Safety Review Board SRB meets process.
No material failings or weaknesses were monthly, or more regularly where events require, identied during the course of this review.
During the year a separate Safety Committee was constituted The internal control regime is supported by the a Committee of the Board which provides operation of a whistleblower reporting function.
additional oversight of the management of The system is operated by a specialist external the Companys safety processes and systems: third-party service provider and allows employees regular commercial, financial and IT functional to report concerns anonymously and in confidence.
meetings are held to review performance and The Audit Committee has approved the processes to consider key issues and risks: and reporting structure for the function and receives regular reports on its operation.
the Executive Management Team meets regularly to consider significant risks and overall business Internal Audit performance: and Internal Audits work is designed to provide effective risk based coverage over the internal Internal Audit considers, reviews and tests internal control environment.
This is summarised in an audit controls and business risk matters, as dened by plan, which is approved by the Board and the Audit its risk based audit plan.
Committee and updated on a rolling basis.
For The Directors review the effectiveness of internal example, during the year the audit plan was exed control, including operating, financial, compliance to include reviews of the governance and controls and risk management controls, which mitigate the surrounding the eet selection process.
The mechanisms used by The Internal Audit department reviews the extent the Directors to review the effectiveness of these to which systems of internal control: controls include the following: are designed and operating effectively: reports from management.
Reporting is are adequate to manage easyJets key risks: and structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to safeguard the Companys assets.
the Board as appropriate: The Head of Internal Audit reports to the discussions with senior personnel throughout Chief Financial officer and has direct access the Company: to the Chief Executive and the Chairman of the consideration by the Audit Committee of internal Audit Committee.
and external audit reports: and The Head of Internal Audit is invited to and attends review by management of controls, which Audit Committee meetings throughout the year mitigate or minimise high-level risks, to ensure and reports regularly on Internal Audit reviews at that they are in operation.
The results of this the Executive Management Team meetings.
review are reported to the Audit Committee Internal Audits key objectives are to provide and the Board which considers whether these independent and objective assurance on risks high-level risks are being effectively controlled.
and controls to the Board, Audit Committee and The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review senior management, and to assist the Board in of the appropriateness of the risk management meeting its corporate governance and regulatory processes to ensure that they are sufciently responsibilities.
During the year, the effectiveness robust to meet the needs of the Company.
of the Internal Audit function was assessed by the Head of Internal Audit and the Audit Committee: Internal control this followed a formal external effectiveness review The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of completed in 2011. internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Directors of the Company.
The The role of Internal Audit and the scope of its responsibility for establishing and operating detailed work continue to evolve to take account of changes control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
within the business and emerging best practice.
A However, the internal control systems are designed formal audit charter is in place.
