Governance Audit Committee report ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Role The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fullling its oversight responsibilities.
This includes reviewing the financial reports and other financial information before publication.
In addition, the Committee also reviews the systems of internal controls on a continuing basis, with respect to finance, accounting, risk management, compliance, fraud and audit that management and the Board have established.
The Committee also reviews the accounting and financial reporting processes: along with reviewing the roles and effectiveness of both the internal and external auditors.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and other accounts remains with the Board.
The key terms set out that the Audit Committee will: serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the quality and timeliness of the financial reporting process and monitor the internal financial control system: David Bennett During the year, the Audit Committee Chairman of the review and appraise the audit efforts of the has continued its detailed scrutiny of the Audit Committee external auditors: appropriateness of the Groups system provide an open line of communication between of risk management and internal controls, the internal auditors, the independent external the robustness and integrity of the Groups auditors and the Board of Directors: financial reporting, along with both the internal confirm and assure the independence and and external audit processes.
objectivity of the external auditors in particular, The Committee has devoted significant in the context of the provision of additional time to reviewing these areas, which are services to the Company : integral to the Groups core management review and ensure the effectiveness of the risk and financial processes, as well as engaging management processes of the Company: regularly with management, Internal Audit review and monitor the effectiveness of the and the external auditor.
internal audit function and managements responsiveness to any findings and The Committee has, where necessary, taken recommendations: initiative in requesting information in order assess potential conicts of interest of Directors to provide the appropriate constructive on behalf of the Board: and challenge for its role further outlined in this report to the Board on how it has discharged report.
During the course of the year, the its responsibilities.
information that the Committee has received has been timely and clear and has enabled the Committee to discharge its duties effectively.
The Committee is very supportive of the latest UK Corporate Governance Code recommendations.
We have always strived to achieve the aims of the Code and the best practice recommendations of other corporate governance organisations, and believe that the revised Code allows the Audit Committee at easyJet to further strengthen its role as a key independent oversight Committee which has also added value to the Group.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 70 Governance Risk management and internal control information security and business continuity: The Board, as a whole, including the Audit delegated authorities: Committee members, consider the nature and whistleblower reports: extent of easyJets risk management framework and the risk prole that is acceptable in order to Internal Audit effectiveness and independence: achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
As a external audit effectiveness, independence result, it is considered that the Board has fullled and reappointment: its obligations under the Code.
anti-bribery and corruption procedures: and The Audit Committee continues to be responsible specic investigations as required.
for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys on-going risk management systems Financial reporting and significant financial issues and processes.
The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and easyJets system of internal controls, along with whether management have made appropriate its design and operating effectiveness, is subject estimates and judgements.
The Committee reviews to review by the Audit Committee through reports accounting papers prepared by management which received from management, along with those provide details on the main financial reporting from both internal and external auditors.
For example, during the year the Further details of risk management and internal Committee reviews the level of provisions and control are set out on pages 68 and 69. accruals recorded which are judgemental in nature.
The Committee also reviews reports by the external Internal audit auditors on the full year and half year results which The Audit Committee has oversight responsibilities highlight any issues with respect to the work for the Internal Audit department.
The Internal Audit undertaken on the audit.
annual plan is reviewed and approved and all reports arising therefrom are reviewed and assessed, The two significant issues considered in the year along with managements actions to findings and are detailed below: recommendations.
Further information on the The Committee reviewed the maintenance Internal Audit department is given on page 69. provision at the year end.
A number of The Head of Internal Audit is invited to and attends judgements are used in the calculation of the Audit Committee meetings and is also given the provision, primarily pricing, utilisation of aircraft opportunity to meet privately with the Audit and timing of maintenance checks.
The Committee without any members of management Committee addressed these matters using present.
During the year the Audit Committee reports received from management which undertook an internal assessment of the effectiveness underlie the basis of assumptions used.
The and independence of the Internal Audit function.
Committee also discussed with the external Main activities of the Committee during the year auditors their review of the assumptions During the year the Audit Committees business has underlying the estimates used.
included the following items: The Committee considered whether the carrying half year results: value of goodwill and landing rights held by easyJet should be impaired.
The judgement full year results: in relation to impairment largely relates to the principal judgemental accounting matters affecting assumptions underlying the calculation of the the Group based on reports from both the Groups value in use of the business being tested for management and the external auditors: impairment, primarily whether the strategic plan is achievable and the overall macroeconomic external audit plans and reports: assumptions which underlie the valuation process.
risk and assurance plans and reports, including: The Committee addressed these matters using key internal audit reports: reports received from management outlining the basis for assumptions used.
The strategic follow up of internal audit recommendations: plan used in the calculation was approved by control themes: the Board.
internal financial control assessments: The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable, and that appropriate fraud and loss prevention: disclosures have been included in the accounts.
revenue protection: risk assessment: www.
com 71 Governance Audit Committee report continued External auditors Effectiveness of external auditors The Audit Committee has responsibility for To assess the effectiveness of the external audit making a recommendation on the appointment, process, the auditors are asked on an annual basis re-appointment and removal of the external to articulate the steps that they have taken to auditors.
 LLP were ensure objectivity and independence, including reappointed auditors of the Group at the Annual where the auditor provides non-audit services.
General Meeting held in February 2013.
During the easyJet monitors the auditors performance, year the Committee received and reviewed audit behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise of plans and reports from the external auditors.
It is their duties, which informs the Audit Committees standard practice for the external auditors to meet decision to recommend reappointment on an privately with the Audit Committee without any annual basis.
This included this year obtaining member of management or the Executive Directors a report on the auditors own quality control being present at each Audit Committee meeting.
procedures and consideration of their annual audit quality and transparency report.
Audit tendering The Audit Committee has noted the changes to Non-audit services the Code, the recent findings of the Competition The Audit Committees terms of reference set Commission and the Guidance for Audit out that they are responsible for the formal policy Committees issued by the Financial Reporting on the award of non-audit work to the auditors.
Council, each in the context of tendering for the In order to preserve auditor objectivity and external audit contract at least every ten years.
The independence,  LLP are Companys external audit was last tendered in not asked to provide consulting services unless 2005, resulting in a change of external auditors in this is in the best interests of the Company.
Since 2006, current financial year,  LLP there have been two different senior statutory did provide services in reporting on profit forecast auditors in line with the required rotation timetable.
and working capital in connection with the eet Having previously conducted a full tender exercise order circular which falls under the Listing Rules and considered retendering in subsequent years, as a class 1 transaction.
It was considered that the the Committee will continue to give consideration services should be provided by the external auditor to the timing of the next formal tender in light of given their existing knowledge of the business, the regulatory requirements and any further working capital and profits.
It was also determined changes in the regulatory framework.
In any event, that the nature of the work would not undermine we do not anticipate that this will be earlier than the auditor objectivity and independence.
This date of the rotation of the current senior statutory additional scope of work is in line with easyJets auditor.
There are no contractual obligations that non-audit services policy which is available in restrict the choice of external auditors.
the governance section of easyJets corporate website, http: corporate.
In the financial year, easyJet spent 0.3 million with  LLP 2012: nil in respect of non-audit services.
David Bennett Chairman of the Audit Committee 18 November 2013 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 72
