John Barton Entertainments, a Non-Executive Director 2.
Non-Executive Chairman at Whitbread plc and an advisory Board John 1944 was appointed to the Board member of Alpitour.
of easyJet as Chairman on 1 May 2013.
Charles is Deputy Chairman of the He is also Chairman of Next plc and National Trust, Chairman of National Trust Catlin Group Limited the international Enterprises Ltd and a former member of insurance underwriters.
the University of York Development Board.
John has also served as Chairman of 3.
Carolyn McCall OBE Cable and Wireless Worldwide plc, Brit Chief Executive Holdings plc, Wellington Underwriting plc Carolyn 1961 joined easyJet on 1 July 2010 and was previously Senior Independent as Chief Executive and was appointed to Director of WHSmith plc and the Board of easyJet.
Prior to this, she was Hammerson plc.
He was also the Chief Executive of Guardian Media Group.
Chief Executive of the insurance broker 5.
Adle Anderson JIB Group plc from 1984 to 1997.
After Independent Non-Executive Director She was a Non-Executive Director JIBs merger with Lloyd Thomson in 1997, of Lloyds TSB from 2008 to 2009, Adle 1965 was appointed to the Board he became Chairman of the combined of easyJet on 1 September 2011.
Until July Non-Executive Director of Tesco PLC group, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group from 2005 to 2008 and Non-Executive 2011, Adle was a partner in KPMG and plc, until 2001. held roles including Chief Financial officer Director of New Look from 1999 to 2005.
She was Chair of Opportunity Now and a of KPMG UK, Chief Executive officer of John is a chartered accountant and received KPMGs captive insurer and Chief former President of Women in Advertising an MBA from Strathclyde University.
Financial officer of KPMG Europe.
Adle is also a Non-Executive Director of Intu 2.
Charles Gurassa Carolyn was awarded the OBE for Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Properties plc where she chairs the Audit services to women in business in 2008.
Committee, a member of the Board of Senior Independent Director In April 2008, she was named Veuve Charles 1956 was appointed to the Trustees of both Save the Children UK Clicquot Business Woman of the Year.
and Save the Children International and Board of easyJet as an independent Non-Executive Director on 27 June 2011 chair of the Audit Committee of Save the Carolyn graduated from Kent University Children International.
and became Deputy Chairman and Senior with a BA in History and Politics and Independent Director on 1 September from London University with a Masters Adle graduated from Kent University 2011.
Charles is the Chairman of the in Politics.
with BSc Hons in Mathematics and Remuneration, Nominations and Fleet Computer Science.
Chris Kennedy Governance and Oversight Committees.
Chief Financial officer He is currently Non-Executive Chairman 6.
David Bennett Chris 1964 joined easyJet on 1 July of Tragus, Genesis Housing Association Independent Non-Executive Director 2010 in the position of Chief Financial and NetNames.
David 1962 was appointed to the Board officer and was appointed to the of easyJet on 1 October 2005 and is Charles career has been primarily in the Board of easyJet.
Chairman of the Audit and Finance travel, tourism and leisure industries in Committees.
He is currently Chairman After graduating from Cambridge with a number of senior positions including of Homeserve Membership Ltd and a a degree in Engineering, Chris worked in Chief Executive of Thomson Travel Group Non-Executive Director of Bank of Ireland Audit and Consultancy before a two year Plc, Executive Chairman TUI Northern UK, Pacnet Ltd, Jerrold Holdings Ltd and stint as a venture capitalist and banker.
Europe and Director of Passenger and Cheshire Mortgage Corporation Ltd.
In 1993 Chris joined EMI Music where he Cargo at British Airways.
Previously he worked both in the UK and the US, was Non-Executive Chairman of David has had a long career in the covering a variety of roles including UK LOVEFiLM, Phones4U, Virgin Mobile plc, financial services sector and was both Chief Financial officer, European Chief Alamo National Rent a Car, 7Days, Group Finance Director and Group Chief Operating officer and International Chief Parthenon Entertainment and has been Executive of Alliance & Leicester plc until Financial officer.
In early 2008 he joined a Senior Independent Director of Merlin its sale to Santander in 2008.
David has the EMI Music Board as Chief Financial also held a number of senior positions in officer and then Chief Investment officer.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 60 Governance 3.
Abbey National, Alliance & Leicester, He is a former Chairman and CEO of 10.
Andy Martin Cheltenham & Gloucester, Lloyds TSB Olympic Airways and was formerly a Independent Non-Executive Director and the National Bank of New Zealand.
Non-Executive Director of South Andy 1960 was appointed to the Board African Airways.
John Browett currently Group Chief Operating Independent Non-Executive Director Rigas was Professor and Head of the officer-Europe, UK and Japan for John 1963 was appointed to the Board Air Transport Department at Craneld Compass Group PLC.
He is University and is still a Visiting Professor currently Chief Executive officer of there.
He is also the author of books on Prior to joining the Compass Group in Monsoon Accessorize and was aviation economics and management.
2004, as Group Finance Director, Andy previously Senior Vice President of Retail was a partner with Arthur Andersen and 9.
Keith Hamill OBE at Apple Inc.
Prior to joining Apple in held senior financial positions with Forte Independent Non-Executive Director 2012, John was Chief Executive officer PLC and Granada Group PLC.
Following Keith 1952 was appointed to the Board of Dixons Retail plc for four years and the disposal of the Hotels Division in of easyJet on 1 March 2009.
He has also held a number of Executive Director 2001, Andy joined First Choice Holidays considerable experience as a Director positions at Tesco PLC, including PLC now TUI Travel PLC as Group of listed companies and is currently a Operations Development Director, Group Finance Director.
Non-Executive Director of Samsonite Strategy Director and running Tesco.
com International SA and Max Property Group Andy graduated from Manchester from 2000 to 2004 where he was plc as well as being Chairman of a number University with a BA in Economics and is responsible for formulating and delivering of private equity nanced companies.
a member of the Institute of Chartered its strategy from launch to profitability.
Between 1993 and 1998, John was at the He was previously Chairman of Go, prior Boston Consulting Group.
to its acquisition by easyJet in 2002, and Travelodge.
He was Chairman of John is a graduate of Cambridge Tullett Prebon, Collins Stewart, Heath University and Wharton Business School.
Lambert and the Council of The University 8.
Professor Rigas Doganis of Nottingham and a Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director of Electrocomponents and Rigas 1939 was appointed to the Board Cadmus Communications Corp.
He of easyJet on 1 December 2005.
Rigas is was Finance Director of WH Smith, an aviation consultant and strategy Forte and United Distillers and a partner adviser to airlines, airports, banks and in Price Waterhouse from 1986 to 1988. governments around the world and is Keith is a Fellow of the Institute of Chairman of the Safety Committee.
Chairman of the European Aviation Club in Brussels.
