DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OUR APPROACH TO GOVERNANCE We consider that the Group complied with all of the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards of 31 December 2013 and can confirm that the Board corporate governance.
Not many public companies state believes the annual report and accounts for 2013, that they are committed to maintaining low standards taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable of corporate governance, so we think it is useful to and provide the information necessary for shareholders state, as precisely as we are able, what we mean by this.
to assess our performance, business model and strategy.
First, we mean that we take governance at all levels in Disclosures required by the Disclosure and Transparency the Company seriously, and we think about it.
6 regarding share capital it means that we do not slavishly follow the strictures and related matters are included on pages 102 to 105 and advice of every governance guru or expert body, of the Directors Report.
but we try to adopt those approaches that we believe are likely to work in the particular context of Aggrekos Copies of the Code are publicly available at business and culture, and which promote the following: www.
Transparency: giving shareholders the information THE BOARD they need to judge whether the executive The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Chief management and the Board are doing a good Executive, four other Executive Directors and six job on their behalf: Non-executive Directors: their details are set out on pages 62 to 64.
The Nomination Committee regularly Effective decision-making, risk management reviews the composition of the Board to ensure that and control: we have an appropriate and diverse mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
A proper balance between Executive and Non-executive Directors: As we mentioned in our 2012 Annual Report, we had a number of new appointments to the Board at the Keeping the interests of the owners of the business start of 2013 to reflect our new global management aligned with, and at the front of the mind of, the structure, these changes were: people charged with managing the business: and Debajit Das was appointed to the Board as an The ability of the Company to hear the voice of Executive Director to fulfil the role of Regional people other than shareholders who are touched Director of Asia Pacific on 1 January 2013. by it.
Principally these are regulatory and standards bodies, employees, customers, suppliers and the Asterios Satrazemis was appointed to the Board as communities in which we operate an Executive Director to fulfil the role of Regional Director of the Americas on 1 January 2013. being mindful of the need to keep the amount of money and time spent on activities other than those David Taylor-Smith was appointed to the Board as involving making money for our shareholders to an an Executive Director to fulfil the role of Regional appropriate level.
Director of Europe, the Middle East and Africa on PUTTING GOVERNANCE INTO PRACTICE 11 March 2013.
We support the UK Corporate Governance Code We also appointed a new Non-executive Director published by the Financial Reporting Council the in 2013: Code.
In 2012, the FRC introduced a number of new requirements into the Code, for financial Ian Marchant was appointed to the Board as a years beginning on or after 1 October 2012, for the Non-executive Director on 1 November 2013.
Directors to confirm that the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
This is the first year that Full details of our current Board members can be this requirement applies to Aggreko and although we found on pages 62 to 64. have always believed that our annual report meets these criteria, we reviewed our processes this year to ensure As announced on 28 February 2014, Rupert Soames that we can provide the necessary confirmation and will be stepping down from the Board after the AGM have the evidence to back it up.
In order to assist the on 24 April 2014.
The Board has commenced a Board in making this confirmation, we asked the Audit process to identify a permanent successor and has Committee to provide advice on this point, further appointed Angus Cockburn, currently Chief Financial detail of the review and process in place can be found Officer, as Interim Chief Executive from 24 April in the Audit Committee report on pages 72 to 76.
2014 and Carole Cran, currently Director of Finance, Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED as Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Carole Cran will Delegation of Authority: division of responsibilities join the Executive Committee and attend Board between the Chairman and the Chief Executive meetings by invitation.
and responsibilities of the Board Committees.
ROLE OF THE BOARD Corporate Governance: undertaking a review of its own performance and that of its committees, The Board focuses on: the independence of the Non-executive Directors and reviewing the governance framework in place.
driving the Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy: ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR oversight of our operations to ensure we have We have a defined division of responsibilities between competent and prudent management: the Non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director, we last reviewed these sound planning and adequate internal control: role statements in 2012 as part of a corporate governance review.
developing leadership and succession: and The Chairman is primarily responsible for leadership protecting our reputation and the relationships of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects we have with customers, suppliers and employees.
of its role and setting the agenda to take full account of the issues and concerns of the Board Members.
We have a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
These matters are significant The Chief Executive is responsible for leading, to the Group as a whole owing to their strategic, managing and controlling the Company and its financial or reputational implications.
We undertook subsidiaries, subject to those matters which are a thorough review of our corporate governance reserved for decision by the Board, and ensuring framework and associated policies in 2012, which that decisions of the Board are implemented.
included an overhaul of the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, dividing the schedule into The Senior Independent Director is responsible for ten distinct areas of responsibility.
Amongst the providing a sounding board for the Chairman, serving matters reserved for decision by the Board are: as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary and is available to meet with shareholders.
Strategy & Management: approval of and monitoring delivery of the strategy, budgets NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS and oversight of Group operations.
Our Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Company.
David Hamill, Russell Structure & Capital: approval of changes to King, Diana Layfield, Robert MacLeod, Ian Marchant the corporate or capital structure of the Group.
and Rebecca McDonald are considered by the Board to be independent as defined in the Code.
Financial Reporting & Controls: approval of the annual, half-yearly and interim management David Hamill is the Senior Independent Director and statements.
is available to meet shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Internal Controls: ensuring a sound system of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial internal control and risk management.
Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
As mentioned in the Chairmans Contracts: approval of major capital expenditure Statement on page 6, David Hamill has decided to or strategically important contracts.
step down from the Board after this years Annual General Meeting.
Russell King has agreed to succeed Communications: approval of shareholder him as Senior Independent Director.
INDUCTION, DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT Board Membership & Other Appointments: We make sure that all new Directors receive a full, approval of Board appointments and removals and formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, ensuring adequate succession planning is in place.
as we explain in more detail below.
Also we plan our Board calendar to ensure that Directors are briefed on a Remuneration: approval of new share plans or wide range of topics throughout the year.
These topics changes to existing share plans and remuneration range from those with particular relevance for our for the Non-executive Directors.
business, such as world energy demand, to more general matters such as developments in corporate governance.
66 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT We recognise that our Directors have a diverse range of the region and gaining a broader understanding of experience, and so we encourage them to attend external Aggrekos business generally.
The induction began in seminars and briefings that will assist them individually.
the UK and involved meeting the EMEA management team, learning about the structure of the Northern Directors have access to independent professional Europe business unit and attending shareholder advice at the Companys expense where they judge presentations with the Chief Executive and Chief this to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities Financial Officer.
David then spent one week with as Directors and all Directors have access to the each of EMEAs business units in Continental Europe, advice and services of the Company Secretary, who Africa and the Middle East, visiting depots, customer is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board sites and office locations in each area.
While visiting procedures are complied with.
each business unit, David travelled with the relevant Managing Director, spending time meeting their teams During the full year we supported induction and gaining a detailed understanding of each business programmes for our new Non-executive Director, Ian unit.
Meeting the customers of the EMEA business Marchant, and for our new Executive Directors, Debajit was also an important part of this induction and Das, Asterios Satrazemis and David Taylor-Smith.
where possible, visits were arranged to customer sites, with the customer, in each business unit.
David also Typical Non-executive Director accompanied service engineers on site visits for hands induction programme in 2013 on learning of the day to day operations and set up Our induction programme aims to give new Nonof our equipment on various project sites from wind executive Directors a thorough grounding in Aggrekos farms and power plants to film studios.
business and a clear understanding of their roles and responsibilities.
We aim to complete the induction As we mentioned in last years report, Asterios programme within a few months of their appointment.
Satrazemis and Debajit Das were appointed to the Board from within the business.
Since both already Newly appointed Non-executive Directors typically had extensive knowledge of Aggreko, their induction begin their inductions with a meeting with the focussed on their new roles and responsibilities as Company Secretary on Directors duties, conflicts of members of the Board.
interest, corporate governance, Board procedures, Group BOARD COMMITTEES policies and the use of our electronic Board packs.
This is followed by a tour of our manufacturing facility in The Board has standing Audit, Ethics, Nomination Dumbarton with the Group Chief Executive where and Remuneration Committees.
The memberships, he explains Aggrekos business models, Group strategy, roles and activities of these Committees are detailed markets, competition, products and corporate in separate reports: Audit Committee on pages 72 to responsibility.
Whilst at the manufacturing site, new 76, Ethics Committee on pages 77 to 78, Nomination Non-executive Directors meet with the Director of Committee on pages 79 to 80 and Remuneration Manufacturing for an overview of the manufacturing Committee on pages 81 to 101. business, our products and work into research and development.
An induction meeting is also scheduled Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of with the Chief Financial Officer to cover the business reference approved by, the Board and the minutes plan, budget, KPIs, financial planning, reporting and of the Committee meetings are circulated to, and investor relations.
Following this, further meetings on reviewed by, the Board.
The terms of reference of the head office functions are scheduled with the Director of standing Committees of the Board were last updated Finance, Group Treasurer, Director of Internal Audit, as part of the governance review undertaken in 2012, Chief Information Officer and Group Human Resources and are available on our website at http: ir.
Meetings are then scheduled with the .
Regional Directors of the business areas and their teams.
We also arrange for new Non-executive Directors to Executive Committee meet the principal partner of our External Auditor.
The Chief Executive chairs the Companys Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors, Typical Executive Director together with the heads of the main Group functions.
induction programme in 2013 These individuals are: the Group Human Resources The induction programme for a new Executive Director, the Chief Information Officer, the Group Director includes the same process as described above Sales & Marketing Director, the Group Operations & for a Non-executive Director, it then goes on to an Technology Director, the Group Business Development additional detailed induction specific to their executive Director and the Group Legal Director & Company responsibilities.
For David Taylor-Smith, this involved Secretary.
The role of the Executive Committee is an eight week introduction to the EMEA business, with to support the Chief Executive and as such it has the aim of visiting all key sites and individuals within no formal terms of reference.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED BOARD MEETINGS Adding strength and financial experience to the Audit Committee by appointing two new The Board generally meets at least six times each year.
At each meeting, the Board receives certain regular Following the restructuring of the regional reports, for example covering current trading, treasury, business units in 2012, ensuring new processes and environment, health and safety.
At particular and reporting lines were operating effectively.
points in the year, the Board reviews budgets, capital Agreeing a new management and organisation expenditure, risks and financial statements.
The Board structure for the Latin American business to ensure also has regular updates on strategy and reviews other it is organised for growth and continued success, as topics, in particular to cover some of the principal risks well as for the benefit of customers and employees.
and uncertainties facing the business, as identified on Focussing on succession within the business, pages 34 to 39, or to address the issues raised in the reviewing and identifying talented individuals previous years Board evaluation.
We also review the for current and future succession.
senior management succession plan for the Group, with the Group Human Resources Director providing Accountability a briefing on senior management moves and each Reviewing our processes to ensure that we are Executive Director leading a discussion on the able to provide confirmation that the Annual succession plan for his region or function.
In addition, Report and Accounts for 2013 is fair, balanced each Regional Director gives a detailed annual and understandable and provides the information presentation on the performance of his region.
The necessary for shareholders to assess our Board also receives reports on what others think about performance, business model and strategy.
us: gets copies of investor and analyst feedback, customer Assessing the effectiveness of the framework satisfaction metrics, and the results of employee surveys.
Managing the risks of our operations and business The Board generally meets in central London or at functions in overseas countries.
the Group head office in Glasgow, but at least one Understanding current developments in executive meeting each year is held at one of the Groups other remuneration, including the change in reporting locations, which gives the Directors the opportunity requirements for the new Directors Remuneration to review the operations and meet local management.
Report and typical areas of concern for shareholders.
In June 2013, the Board visited Brazil, this included Reviewing and challenging the Groups Treasury visits to the Aggreko facility in Campinas and the policies.
former headquarters for Poit Energia which we had Approving revised Ethics Policies and rolling out acquired in 2012.
The visit to Brazil also included a new online training solution for employees.
presentations from the Americas Executive team and a tour of the Aggreko Service Centre in Jaguariuna Relations with shareholders with the Americas Executive team.
Meeting shareholders face to face at the Annual General Meeting in Glasgow.
BOARD ACTIVITIES IN 2013 Preparing to offer a further return of capital to Some of the key activities that the Board has covered shareholders in 2014. over the past year are: Further detail on our investor relations activities can be found on pages 69 and 70.
Leadership Rolling out and communicating the five year The attendance of Directors at meetings during 2013 Group strategy, explaining the new goals and is set out in the table at the foot of page 71. priorities for the business and monitoring progress.
Approving investment in new fleet.
The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive Visit to Brazil to see the Aggreko facility in Directors without the Executive Directors present, and Campinas, the former headquarters for Poit at least once a year the Senior Independent Director Energia and receive presentations from the chairs a meeting of the Non-executive Directors Americas Executive team.
Reviewing and challenging the strategy for product and service technology.
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Keeping contract risk management under close In accordance with the Code, all members of the review, with an emphasis on reduction of net debt.
Board with the exception of Rupert Soames and Reviewing employee engagement across the David Hamill will be offering themselves for business with our fourth Global Opinion Survey.
re-election or election in the case of our newly appointed Non-executive Director at the 2014 Effectiveness Annual General Meeting.
It is part of the Chairmans Appointing one new Non-executive Director role to discuss the time commitment and contribution and three new Executive Directors to the Board.
68 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT of each Non-executive Director as part of his or her Further details on the outcomes of the Committee individual appraisal, and the Nomination Committee evaluations are included in their separate reports: unanimously recommends the reappointment of each Audit Committee on pages 72 to 76, Ethics of the Directors being proposed.
More detail on the Committee on pages 77 to 78, Nomination Nomination Committees role in the reappointment Committee on pages 79 to 80 and Remuneration of Directors can be found on page 80.
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters The last externally facilitated evaluation of Board of appointment and the details of their terms are set and Committee performance was in 2011, therefore out in the Remuneration Report on pages 96 and 98. we intend to use an external facilitator for our 2014 No other contract with the Company or any Board and Committee evaluation.
subsidiary undertaking of the Company in which any Director was materially interested existed during or We have reviewed the interests declared by Directors at the end of the financial year.
which could conflict with those of the Company, and we are satisfied that the Boards powers to authorise BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION potential conflicts are operating effectively.
This year we conducted our evaluation of Board and RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Committee performance internally.
We designed a questionnaire, intended to stimulate thought and Understanding what people think about us is a key discussion, rather than to compile formal responses part of driving our business forward and we actively or scores.
The Group Legal Director & Company seek dialogue with the market, providing us with Secretary then held individual meetings with each the opportunity to communicate with shareholders Director.
The results of those meetings were collated and analysts and to understand their views on the and discussed at our December 2013 Board meeting.
The Board The Chairman and the Chief Executive were then receives regular updates on the views of shareholders asked to prepare an action plan to ensure through briefings and reports from management, improvements were implemented.
Directors and the Company brokers who have had shareholder interaction over the year.
In addition, The table at the bottom of this page sets out the the Senior Independent Director is available to meet areas identified for improvement and actions taken.
shareholders if they wish to raise any issues separately.
Following our 2013 Board performance evaluation, four areas were identified for improvement: Objective Progress Board The Board has a good mixture of skills covering all We will continue to review criteria Composition main areas and the balance between Executive and for new appointees.
However, we recognised that we need to keep the areas of expertise under review as the business develops.
Succession The Executive appointments to the Board in 2013 Succession would be examined in had gone well, with good levels of confidence and greater detail by the Nomination interaction between the Executives.
In order to build on Committee and regular presentations this success, the Board agreed to increase their focus have been scheduled for Executive on succession in 2014 and improve access to NonCommittee Members at the Board.
executive Directors for Executives below Board level.
Strategy and A number of topics were identified during the We have incorporated these points Competition evaluation as items on which the Board would into the 2014 Board agenda.
Topics included key strategic issues and the competitive landscape, on a regional and international level.
Board Board meetings are chaired effectively, timekeeping is We have revised some of our regular Meetings well managed and the level and quality of information reports, for example, a new investor provided to the Board is generally good.
Some relations report to include more suggestions were made to improve the running order analysts data.
of meetings, the provision of information and the level and detail of financial reports.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED We have engaged with shareholders in a number reasonable and not absolute assurance against of ways during 2013, which include: material misstatement or loss.
The Boards monitoring framework covers a wide range of controls, including half and full year formal reporting, with financial, operational and compliance controls presentations by the Chief Executive and Chief together with risk management.
It is based principally Financial Officer to institutional investors and on reviewing reports from management and analysts following results announcements: these considering whether significant risks are identified, are also broadcast live on our investor website: evaluated, managed and controlled and ensuring that any significant weakness thus identified is promptly presentation of the Company strategy: remedied.
The Board continues to enhance and strengthen the procedures for identifying and a programme of meetings throughout the year monitoring key areas of risk.
We have formatted the with existing and potential institutional investors: registers to provide clearer visibility on the highest rated risks: we now provide a comparison to previous conference calls for investors and analysts following registers to show risk trending and also provide a the release of first and third quarter results: high level narrative explaining key changes from the previous register.
Internal Audit provide assurance meeting shareholders face to face and responding to the Audit Committee on the operation of controls to questions at the Annual General Meeting: and which have been identified to address risks on the Group Risk Register.
introducing a shareholder welcome letter for new shareholders, containing useful information for first The Board also considers financing and investment time shareholders.
decisions concerning the Group and monitors the policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury In 2013 we held over 260 one to one meetings with risk.
The Group insurance programme is reviewed by investors.
These meetings are conducted by at least one the Board, which also approves self-insured exposures.
of the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Finance or Head of Investor Relations and where During each financial year the Audit Committee appropriate, senior members of the regional teams reviews the external and internal audit work are also invited to allow investors to gain a broader programmes and considers reports from internal and perspective on the business.
These meetings occur in a external auditors on the system of internal control number of different locations around the world to reflect and any material control weaknesses.
It also receives the global nature of our shareholder base.
This year responses from management regarding the actions we held meetings in London, Edinburgh, New York taken on issues identified in audit reports.
The full and Paris for major shareholders and also visited report of the Audit Committee is on pages 72 to 76. investors on the West Coast of the USA, Canada, PERFORMANCE REPORTING AND INFORMATION Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Sweden and Denmark.
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial We also enjoy meeting and engaging in discussions review cycle, which includes a detailed annual with shareholders at the Companys Annual General budgeting process, where business units prepare Meeting.
The 2014 Annual General Meeting will be budgets for approval by the Board.
The Group uses held in Glasgow on Thursday, 24 April 2014.
Further a large number of performance indicators to measure details of the meeting are set out on page 105 and in the both operational and financial activity in the business.
letter from the Chairman and notice of meeting sent Depending on the measure: these are reported and with this report.
Shareholders unable to attend are reviewed on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In encouraged to vote using the proxy card mailed to them addition management in the business receive a weekly or electronically as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
and monthly pack of indicators which are the basis of regular operational meetings, where corrective action INTERNAL CONTROL is taken if necessary.
At Group level a well-developed The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code management accounts pack including income by establishing a continuous process for identifying, statements, balance sheets and cash flow statement, evaluating and managing the risks that are considered as well as key ratios related to capital productivity and significant by the Group in accordance with the customer satisfaction scores, is prepared and reviewed revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control monthly by management.
As part of the monthly published by the Financial Reporting Council.
This financial reporting process a forecast of the current process has been in place for the period under review year numbers is carried out.
To ensure consistency of and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report reporting the Group has a global enterprise resource and Accounts.
The process is designed to manage planning system and a global consolidation system as rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide well as a common accounting policies and procedures 70 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT manual.
Management monitor the publication of new CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY reporting standards and work closely with the external The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure auditors in evaluating the impact of these standards.
that it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, which protects the environment REVIEW OF EFFECTIVENESS as well as safeguarding the health and safety of its OF INTERNAL CONTROL employees, its customers and the communities in In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the which it operates.
These policies are intended to Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system recognise, evaluate and manage responsibly of internal control.
environmental, health and safety risks through implementation of a comprehensive Global On an annual basis the Audit Committee receives a Environmental, Health and Safety Management formal review that is designed to assess the application System that standardises best operating practices, of the principal financial controls operated by the objectives, data collection, reporting, audits, Group.
The review, which is based on self-assessment performance indicators and goals.
These policies by senior operational management, is carried out using are set out in more detail on pages 53 to 60. a risk review and control questionnaire and is intended to complement the internal and external audit procedures.
There is also a comprehensive procedure for monitoring all significant risks and key risks have been identified on the Group Risk Register.
The Board has considered the probability of those risks occurring and their impact, as well as the actions that would be taken in response to them if they did occur.
The Board has undertaken a specific assessment of internal control for the purpose of this Annual Report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that the Group continues to have an effective system of internal control.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS IN 2013 Audit Remuneration Ethics Nomination Board meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Angus Cockburn 7 7 Debajit Das 7 7 David Hamill 6 7 2 3 4 5 2 3 5 6 Ken Hanna 7 7 5 5 3 3 6 6 Russell King 7 7 3 3 5 5 6 6 1 Diana Layfield 7 7 2 2 3 3 Robert MacLeod 7 7 3 3 5 5 6 6 2 Ian Marchant 1 1 0 1 Rebecca McDonald 7 7 4 5 Asterios Satrazemis 7 7 Rupert Soames 7 7 6 6 3 David Taylor-Smith 6 6 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1 Appointed to the Audit Committee on 29 July 2013.
2 Appointed to the Board and Audit Committee on 1 November 2013.
Ian was unable to attend the December 2013 Audit Committee meeting owing to a pre-existing business commitment, made prior to his appointment.
3 Appointed to the Board on 11 March 2013.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71
