Audit committee report Committee members: Paul Hollingworth Chairman Adrian Auer Karen Guerra following her appointment in January 2013 John Pattullo following his appointment in January 2013 Rupert Soames Other regular attendees: Company Chairman Group Chief Executive s Chairman of the Audit Committee, I would like to Group Finance Director present our report detailing the role and responsibilities A Group Company Secretary of the Committee and its activities during the year.
The Boards report on the systems of internal control and their Group Financial Controller effectiveness, together with the going concern statement, can Head of Internal Audit be found in the Corporate Governance section on pages 36 to 41.
Group Risk Manager Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG Membership Role The Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees main responsibilities include the following: The Board is satis ed that the Chairman of the Committee has the current and relevant financial and accounting experience required by Assisting the Board in its duties regarding the integrity of the the provisions of the Code, having previously held chief financial of cer financial and corporate reporting and auditing processes positions in public companies for most of his career, including most The maintenance of a sound internal control and risk recently the position of Group Chief Financial Of cer at Thomas Cook management system Group plc up to June 2012.
The other members of the Committee have Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the a wide range of business experience and expertise, as evidenced in Groups system of internal control, including financial reporting their biographies on pages 34 and 35.
The Board is also satis ed that and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Committee can effectively ful l its responsibilities.
the Group Ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained between Meetings and attendance Electrocomponents and its external auditors The Committee met four times during the year ended 31 March 2013.
Meetings are scheduled in accordance with the financial and reporting Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the external audit process, cycles of the Company.
Members and their attendance at meetings including the auditors appointment, fees and independence during the year are set out in the Corporate Governance section on Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the pages 36 to 41. external auditors In addition to the members of the Committee, it was normal for In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent others to receive the Committee papers and attend meetings, when access to the Internal Audit team and to the external auditors.
Attendance was at the invitation of the Committee Chairman Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have direct access to only and does not restrict the Committees independent decision the Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
Details of the regular attendees are shown opposite.
The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its authority and responsibilities and these are reviewed periodically by the Committee.
The Committees current terms of reference are available for inspection on the Companys website.
The Board is kept fully informed of the Committees work and the minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to Board members.
42 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Corporate governance Activities during the year Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include weekly, Financial reporting monthly and annual reporting cycles.
Monthly management accounts In its financial reporting to shareholders and other key interested are prepared by all operating companies and major cost functions.
parties, the Board aims to present a fair, balanced and understandable These contain actual financial performance measures for both the assessment of the Groups position and prospects, providing necessary most recent month and year to date which are compared with information for shareholders to assess the Companys business model, forecasts and prior years.
In addition forecasts, which are usually strategy and performance.
The Committee reviews and advises the updated at least four times a year, are compared against the previous Board on the Groups annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim forecast, the budget and prior year actual gures.
Variances are management statements and other periodic statements.
The reviewed by the GEC and by the Board.
Speci c reporting systems Committee focuses in particular on key accounting policies and cover treasury operations, major investment projects and legal and practices adopted by the Group and any signi cant areas of judgement insurance activities, which are reviewed by the Board and its that may materially impact reported results.
In its review of the Committees on a regular basis.
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013, the Committee Internal audit also considered analysis to support the going concern judgement.
The Group has a team of internal auditors which has an audit Internal control and risk management programme covering scope and resources of the function, The Boards responsibilities for internal control are set out in the annually agreed and approved by the Committee.
Corporate Governance section on pages 36 to 41.
The Committee also reviews: The Committee receives reports on the performance of the system The level and skills of resources allocated to the internal audit of internal control, and on its effectiveness in managing material risks function to conduct this programme of work and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
The summary of the results of each audit and the resolution of The Committee annually reviews the Groups risk management process any control issues identi ed with the outcome of the review being reported to the Board.
This, The effectiveness of the internal audit function together with the provision of regular updates to the Board on material risk issues, allows the Board to make the assessment on the systems The Head of Internal Audit has regular contact with the Chairman of internal control for the purposes of making its public statement.
of the Committee, with access to the Company Chairman and other members of the Committee.
Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been identi ed through the monitoring processes outlined above, plans On an annual basis the Committee as a whole discusses with the for strengthening them are put in place and action plans regularly Head of Internal Audit the control environment of the Group without monitored until complete.
During the period under review there the presence of executive management.
were no control failings or weaknesses that resulted in unforeseen External auditors material losses.
The Committee and Board put great emphasis on the objectivity of Further information regarding risks to the business is given on pages the Companys auditors, KPMG, in their reporting to shareholders.
To 24 to 27 of the Business review.
ensure full and open communication, the Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG was present at all of the Committee meetings.
Internal financial controls Internal financial controls are the systems employed by the Group The performance and effectiveness of the auditors is reviewed to enable the Directors to discharge their responsibilities for financial annually by the Committee, and covers quali cation, expertise, matters.
Those responsibilities are noted on page 57. resources and re-appointment as well as reassurance that there are no issues which could adversely affect the auditors independence The main financial control elements are described below.
and objectivity taking into account the relevant standards.
As part Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board and the of risk evaluation planning the Committee considers the risk of Board Committees, with delegation of operating responsibility its current auditor withdrawing from the market.
through the Board Committees to management in all locations.
Views of management are also taken into account and this is reported Operating company controls are detailed in Group Finance and to senior members of KPMG.
This forms part of KPMGs own system Group Treasury manuals that specify the controls necessary in of quality control.
The Committee also met with KPMG, without identi ed areas of financial risk.
management being present, to review the adequacy of controls and any signi cant area where management judgement has been applied.
The auditors engagement letter and the scope of the years annual audit cycle is discussed in advance by the Committee, ensuring that any changes in circumstances arising since the previous year are taken into account.
Following discussions between the operating companies and the local KPMG of ces and a review by Group management, audit and non-audit fees are reviewed by the Committee and are then recommended to the Board for approval.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are given in note 3 on page 71.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201343 Audit committee report continued With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by KPMG, the The Group has a policy on employment of former employees of Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of such services the external auditors.
This requires that any such employment is does not impair KPMGs independence or objectivity.
In determining considered on a case by case basis and takes into account the the policy, the Committee has taken into account possible threats to Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards on such appointments.
The policy is part of the Group Any appointment requires approval by a combination of the Group Finance Manual.
Finance Director, Audit Committee and Board, depending on the seniority of the appointment.
The policy is as follows: The annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders at the Annual When considering the use of the external auditors to undertake General Meeting is a fundamental safeguard, and beyond this, there non-audit work, the Group Finance Director should at all times give are controls in place to ensure that additional work performed by the consideration to the provisions of the Financial Reporting Council auditors is appropriate and subject to proper review.
Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the preservation of independence and objectivity Fraud The external auditors must certify to the Company that they are The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and detection acting independently of fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases of fraud must be reported In providing a non-audit service, the external auditors should not: to the Company Secretary within 48 hours and investigated by operational management or Internal Audit, as appropriate.
The audit their own work outcome of any investigation is reported to the Company Secretary.
make management decisions for the Company A register of all suspected fraudulent activity and the outcome of create a mutuality of interest any investigation is kept, which is circulated to the Committee on nd themselves in the role of advocate for the Company a regular basis.
Before commissioning non-audit services, the Committee or the Anti-bribery Group Finance Director as appropriate must ensure that the external An anti-bribery policy has been developed and implemented following auditors are satis ed that there is no issue as regards independence the Bribery Act coming into force.
Its introduction was supported by a and objectivity training programme and an online training module.
A gift register has The Group Finance Director has authority to commission the been introduced to ensure transparency.
external auditors to undertake non-audit work where there is a speci c project with a cost that is not expected to exceed 50,000.
Whistleblowing This work has to be reported to the Committee at its next meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Committee is If the cost is expected to exceed 50,000, the agreement of the responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in Committee is required before the work is commissioned.
In either con dence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of case, other potential providers must be adequately considered financial reporting or other matters and ensuring that any matters are The Group Finance Director monitors all work done by the external investigated and escalated as appropriate.
This is run by an external auditors or other providers of accountancy services anywhere in third party.
Whistleblowing is referred to as Speak Up internally and the Group in excess of 10,000 is available to all employees in the Group.
The Committee receives aggregated reports on matters raised through these services and It is the Committees current intention to carry out an external audit monitors their use throughout the Group.
tender process, in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit Committees and the new Code, both of which By order of the Board were published in September 2012.
The timing is likely to coincide Paul Hollingworth, Chairman of the Audit Committee with the cycle for the rotation of the current Group Audit Engagement Director.
There are currently no contractual obligations that will restrict 23 May 2013 the Committees choice of external auditors.
The Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards require rotation of the Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG.
This took place in July 2009 when a new Director was appointed, replacing the previous Director who had held the post for five years.
A formal statement of independence from the external auditors is received each year.
The Group will not engage the auditors to undertake any work that could threaten their independence.
44 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
