Corporate governance COMMITTED TO GOOD GOVERNANCE ear Shareholder Electrocomponents, as a UK listed company, is required to D Good corporate explain how we have applied the main principles set out in governance the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and whether the relevant provisions have been complied with throughout the financial ensures the year.
The following reports set out how we have applied the Code company and con rm our compliance.
runs well The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders.
We are mindful of the need to meet the ever-changing demands of the business environment, whilst at the same time ensuring that our various stakeholders shareholders, employees, customers and the environment are all given appropriate consideration.
This has been Our governance framework a challenge that our Board continues to take very seriously.
One of the main priorities arising from previous Board evaluations has Shareholders been to strengthen our Board and we were delighted to welcome two Board of directors additional Non-Executive Directors to our Board, and its Committees, in January of this year.
In making these appointments we have improved our diversity across a range of measures, including skills, Audit Committee experience and gender, helping to bring different perspectives to t 'JOBODJBM SFQPSUJOH our decision making.
t &YUFSOBM BVEJU t 3JTL NBOBHFNFOU BOE JOUFSOBM DPOUSPMT During the year we conducted a review of our effectiveness as a t 0QFSBUJPOBM BVEJU Board.
There were a number of outputs from this review including t 8IJTUMFCMPXJOH BOE GSBVE improving the way we review financial performance, greater visibility of the progress of the implementation of our strategy and reviewing succession planning following changes to the Groups new Remuneration Committee operating model.
t $IBJSNBO BOE &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPS QBZ t 4FOJPS FYFDVUJWF QBZ The Company actively engages in two-way communication with its t 4IBSF JODFOUJWF QMBOT shareholders and during the year we held numerous face-to-face meetings, hosted site visits and invited them to presentations on both the Groups financial results and elements of its strategy.
Nomination Committee t #PBSE TUSVDUVSF Executive remuneration has been a topic of considerable debate in t #PBSE BQQPJOUNFOUT the press and elsewhere again over the year and the Remuneration t #PBSE TVDDFTTJPO QMBOT Committees report on pages 45 to 54 sets out in detail the Companys approach to this important area.
Group Executive Committee t &YFDVUJWF TUSBUFHZ t 0QFSBUJPOBM BOE mOBODJBM QFSGPSNBODF Peter Johnson, Chairman 23 May 2013 36 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Corporate governance we have strengthened our Board further by welcoming Karen guerra and john pattullo as non-executive directors, bringing with them a broad range of international business experience The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group together During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Directors consider that the with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Company complied throughout the accounting period with all relevant provisions set out in the Code with the exception of the following: Principal activity Rupert Soames continued to be a member of the Audit Committee Electrocomponents is the worlds leading high service distributor whilst also carrying out the role of Acting Company Chairman.
of electronics and maintenance products.
With operations in 32 The Board believed it preferable to have three directors it countries, we offer more than 550,000 products through the internet, considered to be independent on the Audit Committee catalogues and at trade counters to over one million customers, The Company Chairman did not meet with individual directors for shipping around 44,000 parcels a day.
Our products, sourced from the purposes of evaluating their performance and discussing their 2,500 leading suppliers, include electronics, automation and control, training and development needs.
This will take place during the test and measurement, electrical and support.
forthcoming year Signi cant events which occurred during the year are detailed in the Both situations occurred as a result of Peter Johnson temporarily Chairmans report on pages 10 to 11 and the Group Chief Executives stepping down from his role as Company Chairman.
The Board Business review Composition The Business review on pages 18 to 33 is incorporated by reference The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors into, and forms part of, the Directors report and includes the following: and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
In November 2012 the Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 24 to 27: and Company was pleased to announce that Peter Johnson was to return Corporate responsibility on pages 28 to 33. as Chairman, after temporarily stepping down, during which time Rupert Soames had assumed the role of Acting Chairman.
Karen Corporate governance Guerra and John Pattullo were welcomed as independent NonDuring the year ended 31 March 2013, the Company has been subject Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2013. to the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set published in June 2010.
The Code is publicly available at www.
out on pages 34 and 35, together with details of their membership uk.
There are five main principles of the Code: of Board Committees.
Leadership Role and effectiveness Effectiveness The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the long-term Relations with shareholders success of the Company.
The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria regarding the composition of the Board under the Accountability Code.
In the opinion of the Board, the Chairman and all the NonRemuneration Executive Directors bring independence of judgement and character, This report explains how the principles were applied in the first three a wealth of experience and knowledge, the appropriate balance of of these areas.
Details of Directors accountability and remuneration skills, and assign suf cient time to enable them to effectively can be found in the following sections of the Directors report: carry out their responsibilities and duties to the Board and to the Committees on which they sit.
They are suf ciently independent Audit Committee report on pages 42 to 44: and of management and are free from any other circumstances or Remuneration report on pages 45 to 54. relationships that could interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The Board normally meets seven times per year and supplementary meetings are held as and when necessary.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201337 Corporate Governance continued The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval Audit Committee which includes responsibility for: Composition The Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors and The approval of the Group strategy and its budgetary and is chaired by Paul Hollingworth.
Under its terms of reference the business plans Committee meets at least three times a year.
The Company Chairman The review and approval of major investment proposals and is regularly invited to attend Committee meetings.
During the year capital expenditure under review the Committee met four times.
The Company Secretary The approval of annual and half-year results, interim management acts as secretary to the Committee.
statements and trading statements Role The approval of the Groups dividend policy, the payment of interim The Committee monitors the integrity of financial reporting and dividends and the recommendation of final dividends audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and Ensuring and maintaining the Groups systems of risk management, risk management system.
Further details of the work of the Audit internal control and corporate governance Committee in discharging its responsibilities are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 42 to 44.
Reviewing health and safety policy and its performance Discussing and agreeing strategic plans Remuneration Committee Composition Evaluating Group and subsidiary performance and The Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors and, with reviewing forecasts effect from November 2012, the Committee was chaired by Rupert Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by the Board to the Soames.
Prior to November, the Committee was chaired by Adrian Group Executive Committee GEC.
Information and agenda items are Auer on a temporary basis.
Rupert Soames remained a member of recommended to the Board by the GEC and by the Company Secretary the Committee.
Under its terms of reference the Committee meets after discussion with the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
The Company Chairman is regularly invited to attend Committee meetings.
During the year under review the Con icts of interest Committee met four times.
The Company Secretary acts as The Companys Articles of Association give the Board the power secretary to the Committee.
to authorise situations that might give rise to Directors con icts of interest.
The Board has in place a formal con icts of interest Role management procedure.
The Board is responsible for considering It is responsible for all aspects of the remuneration of the Company whether authorisation is required, and if it can be given, in relation to Chairman and Executive Directors, as well as senior employees.
new situations as they arise.
The Board reviews annually any con ict Further details of the Remuneration Committee, remuneration policy authorisations it has given and any limitations that have been applied.
and of the remuneration of each Director are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 45 to 54.
Committees The Board has a number of standing committees consisting of certain Nomination Committee Directors and, in the case of the GEC and Treasury Committee, certain Composition senior managers to which speci c responsibilities have been The Committee consists of the Company Chairman and all the delegated and for which written terms of reference have been agreed.
The Company Chairman chairs the Committee.
These terms of reference are available for inspection on the With effect from November 2012 the Committee was chaired by Peter Companys website.
Board members receive minutes of meetings of Johnson.
Prior to November the Committee was chaired by Rupert all the Boards Committees and can request presentations or reports Soames in his capacity as Acting Chairman of the Company.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The performance of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Role Committees are assessed annually as part of the evaluation process The Committee meets as required and considers matters relating to described below.
Board succession planning and makes recommendations to the Board Group Executive Committee where appropriate.
During the period under review the Committee met Composition five times.
The Committee periodically assesses what new skills, The Committee consists of the Executive Directors and the Group knowledge and experience are required on the Board and, if necessary, Chief Executives direct reports and is chaired by the Group Chief the balance of independence.
Where a new director is to be appointed, Executive.
The Committee has met ten times during the year ended a candidate pro le is recommended which is then used to brief 31 March 2013 and manages the day-to-day activities of the Group.
recruitment consultants appointed by the Committee to undertake the The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Initial meetings are held generally by the Company Chairman and the Group Chief Executive with prospective candidates Role and a shortlist of individuals is then selected to meet with other The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the GEC: the Committee members.
The Committee then meets and decides development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration which candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
by the Board, the monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and forecasts and the development of risk management The Board has long-term succession plans in place for both the Board and control procedures.
These plans are reviewed annually.
Board composition is also discussed as part of the Board evaluation process.
38 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Corporate governance Non-Executive Director appointment The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring As a result of last years Board evaluation the Committee continued its effectiveness across all aspects of its role, setting its agenda to its search for additional Non-Executive Directors, using the process ensure adequate discussion of all items of business and promoting outlined above.
Upon recommendation from the Committee, the openness and debate.
The Chairman facilitates constructive relations Board appointed Karen Guerra and John Pattullo with effect from between Non-Executive and Executive Directors and holds meetings 1 January 2013.
Russell Reynolds Associates, an executive search with Non-Executive Directors without Executives being present.
The agency, were appointed to assist with this process and they have Chairman also ensures all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear no other connection with the Company.
information and is responsible for effective communication between the Board and its shareholders.
Diversity The Committee has a Policy Statement which emphasises its The Group Chief Executive has direct charge of the Company on a adherence to the Group Diversity Policy in considering succession day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and planning and recruitment at Board level, and undertakes that any operational performance of the Group and the determination of the recruitment consultants or other advisers it appoints to help with Group strategy and the achievement of its objectives.
these tasks are made aware of the Group Diversity Policy.
The The Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge regarding Committee states that it is in the best interests of the Company strategy, performance of management and also satisfy themselves to ensure balance and diversity at Board level, and will encourage on the integrity of financial information and controls and systems of recruitment consultants to widen search parameters so that a risk management.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for diverse range of candidates may be considered, where appropriate.
chairing the meeting of Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of Treasury Committee evaluating the Chairmans performance.
The Senior Independent Composition Director also provides an alternative communication channel for The Committee consists of the Group Chief Executive, the Group shareholders, and other Directors if required, as well as providing Finance Director, the Group Treasurer, the Assistant Group Treasurer, a sounding board for the Chairman.
the Group Financial Controller, the Company Secretary and the Group Information and development Tax Manager.
The Assistant Group Board meetings Treasurer acts as secretary to the Committee.
Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely information on the Role matters to be discussed at each meeting.
During the year a system The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Treasury was introduced whereby Board and Committee papers are received Committee: day-to-day nancing and administrative matters and electronically by Directors.
This enables faster and more secure setting and monitoring detailed treasury policy for the Group within distribution of information and reduces the use of resources.
an overall policy framework established by the Board.
At each Board meeting the Group Chief Executive presents a Meeting attendance comprehensive update on the business issues across the Group The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and of and the Group Finance Director presents a detailed analysis of the the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year financial performance, as well as reports on investor relations and and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings, feedback from investors.
GEC members and other senior managers demonstrating commitment to their role as Directors of the Company.
also attend relevant parts of Board meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility, providing updates Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Non-Executive Directors on developments and changes to the business.
Between Board The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by different meetings, Directors also meet with GEC members and are provided individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman with information in a timely manner on matters affecting the and Group Chief Executive has been clearly established: their business as and when relevant.
responsibilities are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
The Boards annual schedule of meetings normally includes a visit to one of our operating companies and this year the Board visited our Shanghai operation.
This visit provided them with the opportunity to tour its warehouse, review operations and meet with management of the Chinese business and the wider Asia Paci c region.
This gave the Board a better insight into the strategic issues within the Groups Asia Paci c business.
Remuneration Board scheduled Audit Committee Committee Nomination Committee Number of meetings held during the year 7 4 4 6 P Johnson 6 7 6 6 I Mason 7 7 S Boddie 7 7 A Auer 7 7 3 4 3 4 6 6 a K Guerra 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 P Hollingworth 7 7 4 4 4 4 6 6 a J Pattullo 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 b R Soames 7 7 4 4 4 4 5 6 The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets a Karen Guerra and John Pattullo were appointed as Non-Executive Directors on 1 January 2013 b Rupert Soames was not present at a meeting of the Nomination Committee as he was the subject of discussion.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201339 Corporate Governance continued Induction and training The results of this years evaluation were constructive and positive.
A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Director.
The Board was particularly pleased with the recruitment of two Overall, the aim of the induction programme is to introduce new new Non-Executive Directors, bringing additional experience and Directors to the Groups business, its operations and its governance knowledge to the Board in two key areas, marketing and logistics.
Inductions for Karen Guerra and John Pattullo were The following themes were noted for further action: carried out during the year and included meetings with senior Strategy: more visibility of progress against targets by tracking management, sales visits to customers, presentations of key business agreed Key Performance Indicators at Board meetings areas, tours of our UK warehouses, as well as receiving technical Financial performance: more time to be spent on financial training on legal and governance issues and relevant documentation.
performance year to date, with increased focus on Directors are encouraged to update and refresh their skills, divisional performance knowledge and familiarity with the Group by attending external Succession planning: following changes to the Groups operating seminars and brie ngs, through participation at meetings and through model, existing succession plans should be reviewed visits to operating units, both in the UK and overseas, as well as by Director election re-election receiving presentations from senior management.
Board Committees The Companys Articles of Association state that each Director must and Directors are given access to independent professional advice at retire from of ce every three years.
The Code goes beyond this, the Groups expense if they deem it necessary in order for them to requiring all Directors to retire and stand for re-election at each Annual carry out their responsibilities.
This is in addition to the access that General Meeting.
The Company complies with the Code requirement every Director has to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to in this respect.
the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and advising the Board, through the Chairman, on new legislation and Rupert Soames second term of appointment as a Non-Executive corporate governance matters.
Director is due to expire in July 2013.
The Nomination Committee, following a review of his contribution to the Board, recommends that Board evaluation his appointment should be extended for a further three-year term.
The Board recognises the bene t of annual evaluation, enabling it to This recommendation was agreed by the Board.
improve its effectiveness and focus and that of its Committees and Directors.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Karen Guerra and John Pattullo were appointed as Non-Executive Company will be sourcing a provider to carry out an external Directors on 1 January 2013.
In accordance with the Companys evaluation during the forthcoming financial year.
Articles of Association they will be standing for formal election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 17 July 2013.
The main purpose of the Board is to ensure the Group develops a clear and stretching strategy that is fully implemented and to support The Board considers that the performance of all the Directors the Company in ful lling its potential.
continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their role.
The Board therefore recommends their election or re-election, The actions resulting from last years evaluation have been as appropriate.
This years questionnaires were sent to Board members covering the Internal control and risk management Board, and its Directors and Committees.
The questionnaire included The Group has an established and ongoing process of risk issues such as: management and internal control which has continued throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report Balance of skills and Accounts.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Experience Groups system of internal control, which has been designed and Effectiveness of meetings implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group and How well strategy is tested and developed the risks to which it is exposed.
Succession planning In accordance with the requirements of the Code and the Diversity recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal control, the Audit Committee has regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the Risk management controls Groups system of internal control and risk management and reported The responses to the questionnaires were collated independently the results to the Board.
These reviews covered all material controls, by the Company Secretary who prepared reports for the Company including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Chairman and the Chairman of each Committee.
These reports were management systems.
Further details of this process are given in the discussed at the relevant Committee meetings and the results were Audit Committee report on pages 42 to 44 and the Business review discussed by the Board at its meeting in January 2013. on pages 24 to 27.
The Groups internal control system can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
40 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Corporate governance Going concern Relations with shareholders In its review of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March The Company encourages two-way communication with both 2013, the Audit Committee also considered analysis to support the institutional and private investors.
The Annual Report and Accounts is going concern judgement.
sent to all shareholders who wish to receive a copy.
It is also available on the Companys website www.
com, which The Groups activities, strategy and performance are explained in the additionally contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities Chairmans report on pages 10 and 11, the Group Chief Executives and published financial results and presentations.
During the year the review on pages 12 to 15 and the Business review on pages 18 to 33.
Company also launched its investor relations app offering instant Further details on the financial performance, financial position and online and of ine access, free of charge, to the Companys latest cash ows of the Group are provided in the Business review on financial and corporate information on the Apple iPad and iPhone.
Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional Note 20 on pages 84 to 91 of the consolidated financial statements shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, provides details of the Groups debt maturity pro le, capital which include meetings following the announcements of the annual management policy, hedging activities and financial instruments and interim results.
At these meetings the Executive Directors meet and its exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risks.
with major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and governance, and the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are The Group is cash generative, as evidenced in its cash ow available for discussions with shareholders if required.
During the year performance with free cash ow representing 78% of pro t after tax more than 50 face to face meetings and telephone conference calls for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Management reviews its actual have been held with institutional shareholders in the United Kingdom, and forecast cash ows each month to ensure that suf cient facilities United States and Europe, covering over 75% of the shareholder are in place to meet the Groups requirements.
The Company has hosted visits to its operating facilities for At 31 March 2013, the Groups net debt was 159.7m with total institutional shareholders during the year and from time to time it committed debt and loan facilities of 305.3m and undrawn hosts brie ngs for analysts and investors on speci c topics related to committed facilities of 149.2m.
In February 2013 the GEC member responsible for the newly established Global Offer function held one The Groups main sources of finance are a syndicated multicurrency such brie ng for over 20 analysts and institutional shareholders.
facility from seven banks for US$75m, 120m and 50m maturing in November 2015 and US$150m of Private Placement notes, split During the year ended 31 March 2013 Peter Johnson as Chairman US$65m maturing June 2015 and US$85m maturing June 2017. and Rupert Soames as Acting Chairman each met with one major shareholder.
The Senior Independent Director was also available for Compliance with the Groups bank covenants is monitored monthly meetings with major shareholders.
and sensitivity analyses are periodically applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants and net debt.
At 31 March 2013 there was The Group Finance Director regularly reports to the Board on investor signi cant headroom between the Groups financial position and its relations, including reports compiled by the Companys brokers and banking covenants: it is expected that such covenants will continue containing feedback from institutional shareholders, ensuring that the to be complied with for the foreseeable future.
views of the shareholders are communicated to the Board through these reports.
The Group has suf cient financial resources, a large and geographically spread customer base and strong supplier relationships.
Therefore, the The Board ensures that regular and useful dialogue is maintained Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business with shareholders and the Annual General Meeting is used as an risks successfully.
additional opportunity for the Chairman and other Board members to meet with shareholders and investors and give them the opportunity The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable to ask questions.
Final voting results are published through a expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the following the meeting.
Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups accounts.
The Directors con rm that this statement has been prepared in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance of UK Companies 2009, published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201341
