Board of directors Non-executive directors Ian Brindle Anne Hyland Chairman Committee membership: A, N c Committee membership: A c, N, R Ian Brindle was appointed a non-executive director and Chairman Anne Hyland was appointed a non-executive director on 1 June 2013 of the Audit Committee in June 2005.
He retired as Chairman of the and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013.
Between 2002 Audit Committee in April 2008 and was appointed Senior Independent and June 2013, she was CFO and company secretary of FTSE-listed Director.
He became Chairman of the Board on 1 August 2013.
She stood down from that role in June 2013.
Prior to senior partner of Price Waterhouse from 1991 to 1998 and UK chairman Vectura, she held a number of senior finance positions including director of  until 2001.
He was also a member of the of corporate finance at then FTSE 100 Celltech Group plc, Medeva plc Accounting Standards Board between 1992 and 2001 and the deputy and KPMG.
She is a Chartered Accountant FCA, a Corporate Tax Adviser chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel between 2001 and CTA AITI and holds a degree in business studies from Trinity College, 2008.
He is senior independent director and chairman of the audit Dublin.
She is also a trustee of the charity Sustrans which campaigns for committee of Spirent Communications plc.
He was non-executive national cycling networks in the UK.
chairman of Sherborne Investors Guernsey A Limited and Sherborne Investors Guernsey B Limited, a non-executive director of 4imprint Group plc from October 2003 to June 2012, where he was also the senior independent director, and a non-executive director of F&C Asset Management plc from February 2011 to May 2013.
Andrew Christie Kevin Matthews Committee membership: A, N, R c Committee membership: A, N, R Andrew Christie was appointed a non-executive director in August 2008 Kevin Matthews was appointed a non-executive director in February and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2013.
He 2005 and served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from has over 25 years of investment banking and international corporate April 2008 until the end of September 2013.
He is chief executive officer finance experience.
He is a partner of Smith Square Partners LLP, a of Isogenica Limited, a private biotechnology business based in the UK corporate finance advisory firm, and before that was, until March 2008, and established in 2000.
Prior to that, he was CEO of Oxonica plc, a a UK managing director in the European Investment Banking Group at UK based nanotechnology company, a role he held from April 2001 to Credit Suisse.
In his prior role at Credit Suisse, he was head of Investment September 2009, and previous to that he held roles in Rhodia Consumer Banking, Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong and, before that, he held the Specialties Limited, Albright & Wilson UK Limited and ICI Chemicals and same position with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
He is a non-executive director of Cellectricon AB, a Swedish director of Helios Underwriting plc and holds an MBA and a Bachelor private biotechnology business, and holds a D. Phil in chemistry.
of Science degree in engineering.
Executive directors David Dutro Brian Taylorson Group Chief Executive Finance Director David Dutro was appointed Group Chief Executive in January 2007.
He Brian Taylorson was appointed Finance Director in April 2002.
Before joined Elementis in November 1998 as President of Elementis Pigments joining Elementis he was head of the European chemicals M&A group and then became President and Chief Operating Officer of Elementis at KPMG Corporate Finance.
He joined KPMG in 2000 from the Dow Worldwide in October 2005.
He was vice president and general manager Chemical Company where he held a number of finance positions over a of Universal Foods Dairy and Food Ingredient businesses now Sensient period of 17 years, living and working in several countries including the Technologies Corp and also spent time with ICI in their colours, polymer UK, South Africa, Switzerland, Canada and the US.
He holds an MA additives and surfactants businesses.
David Dutro was born and degree in engineering from Cambridge University, is a member of the educated in the US and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in marketing.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He was a non-executive director of Fiberweb plc between September 2006 and August 2012.
Key: A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee c Chairman of Committee 24 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Senior executives Greg McClatchy Dennis Valentino President of Elementis Specialties President of Elementis Chromium comprising Elementis Specialty Products and Elementis Surfactants Greg McClatchy was appointed President of Elementis Specialties in Dennis Valentino re-joined Elementis as President of Elementis Chromium January 2007.
He joined Elementis Pigments in 1999, served as managing in April 2009.
His previous positions at Elementis included managing director of its Durham UK operations, and was appointed President of director of Asia Pacific and President of Elementis Pigments until it Specialty Rubber in 2002 and President of Elementis Chromium in 2005. was sold in August 2007 when he left the Group.
Prior to Elementis, he He was previously with Universal Foods now Sensient Technologies joined Pfizer Pigments in 1975 and held various positions there including Corp and ICIs polymer additives business.
Greg McClatchy completed vice president of manufacturing and vice president of its North America his undergraduate studies in chemistry and economics at the University Coatings business.
Dennis Valentino completed his undergraduate of Delaware.
studies in chemical engineering at the University of Missouri Rolla, and obtained his MBA from St. Louis University.
Walker Allen Wai Wong General Counsel and Company Secretary Chief Compliance Officer Walker Allen joined Elementis as General Counsel in 1999 and was Wai Wong joined Elementis and was appointed Company Secretary in appointed General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer in 2006.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and to joining Elementis, he was associate general counsel with GE Americom Administrators ICSA and a member and accredited practitioner of the a GE Capital company and before that senior business counsel with GE Chartered Institute of Public Relations.
Prior to joining Elementis, he held Plastics a division of General Electric Company.
He began his legal a number of senior company secretarial positions including at John career as a lawyer in private practice with two leading New York City law Menzies plc, ICSA and .
He has a Bachelors firms, where he specialised in corporate law, securities and mergers and degree in commerce and law from the University of Edinburgh and a acquisitions.
Walker Allen is a member of the New York Bar and is Masters degree in corporate and commercial law from Queen Mary admitted as in-house counsel in New Jersey.
Daniel Hughes Chief Information Officer Daniel Hughes was appointed Chief Information Officer in September 2013.
He has held various senior leadership roles in Elementis Specialties since February 2007.
Primarily he has served as Vice President, Global Procurement and Supply Chain and been deeply engaged in our worldwide end to end business transactions.
He also served as integration manager for our Deuchem, Yuhong, Fancor, Watercryl and Hi-Mar acquisitions.
He holds a BA Honours degree from the University of East London and, prior to joining Elementis, held various senior procurement and supply chain positions at Engelhard Corporation and Ford Motor Company.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 25 Corporate governance report Chairmans letter on governance example, in the Companys Articles of Association.
On a more practical level, Fundamental to the success of any organisation is the way it is governed the directors also operate under agreed Board protocols and procedures, and, for Elementis, this means the effectiveness of the Board and our such as: i the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision, ii the governance arrangements.
role descriptions of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director and iii service contracts and appointment letters.
The Board plays a critical role in defining the strategy and priorities of the Company whilst the management team, led by the Chief Executive, is The Board is supported in carrying out its duties and responsibilities by responsible for executing strategy in attainment of set objectives and a number of Board Committees, with defined terms of reference and, of priorities.
The Board is accountable to shareholders, and under law to course, an important aspect of effectiveness is the quality of the executive other stakeholders, for the stewardship of the Companys assets and and senior management team.
Skills, knowledge, experience and for the generation and preservation of value over the longer term.
This qualifications all contribute to the effectiveness of the Board and the means being responsible for the decisions that are made about how the executive management team.
Company is funded and how its financial resources are invested.
It also means being responsible for: i reviewing management and financial The primary groupwide governance document is our Group Code of Business performance, ii how our business activities affect others including the Conduct and Ethics which sets out in writing our values and the standards we environment, iii the level of risk the Board is prepared to take in order expect of our employees and third party contractors.
This document, together to achieve strategic objectives and iv the way we conduct our business, with other Group policies, govern how we conduct our business and the which is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and in standards and responsibilities expected of all our employees.
Group policies accordance with the expectations of our shareholders, stakeholders set the standards that drive performance.
Compliance training and our culture and often the wider societies in which we operate.
Board oversight, business reviews and compliance audits form part of the monitoring and supervision process.
In other parts of this Annual Report, we give an account of the financial performance of the Company and our businesses, as well as the Groups Table 1 below provides a high level overview of the Elementis governance performance in relation to health, safety and environmental matters.
framework and shows how the Corporate Governance Codes main Our Corporate responsibility report also describes other areas that principles have been applied.
shareholders are increasingly interested in, such as workforce diversity, wider human rights including employment rights and supply chain Statement of compliance matters.
Core to all these areas are the values and standards set by the The Board is of the view that it has applied fully throughout 2013 all of the Board and the policies and structures put in place so that all our activities provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code both the 2010 and are appropriately managed, monitored and reported.
is one of performance, innovation, customer service, accountability and responsibility, compliance, openness and transparency is something that is fostered by the Chief Executive, embedded throughout our global operations and binds our values, standards, policies and performance together.
Effective governance starts at the top, with clear roles, responsibilities and lines of reporting.
Directors have to operate within applicable laws and Ian Brindle regulations, which include corporate governance rules.
In addition, directors Chairman have to operate within the mandate given to them from shareholders, for 25 February 2014 Table 1 Elementis governance framework: application of Corporate Governance Code main principles Shareholders Chairman CEO supported by Board Audit Nomination Remuneration the management Committee Committee Committee team Leadership Re-elect the Leads the Board, Manages the Provides strategic Monitors the Monitors Board Sets the policy Board annually.
is responsible businesses, develops oversight of integrity of the composition, for executive for all aspects and executes management, financial statements, structure and overall remuneration, of governance strategy, generates business disclosures, reporting effectiveness and determines and arrangements and and preserves performance and the and controls, and is responsible for monitors overall level provides advice and shareholder value, values and standards oversees the role and carrying out annual of remuneration and support to the CEO fosters corporate for the Group, and work of the internal performance reviews, makes awards under and Finance Director.
culture and monitors retains a formal and external auditors.
succession planning all incentive plans risk and compliance.
schedule of matters and making including setting reserved for its recommendations performance targets.
26 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013
