Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Shareholders Chairman CEO supported by Board Audit Nomination Remuneration the management Committee Committee Committee team Effectiveness Hold the Board Ensures all aspects of Operates a Programme of Clear terms of reference define roles and responsibilities, programme of to account for its the Boards operation transparent, no meetings, operational meetings support their work and all directors attend meetings so there is stewardship of including information surprises culture and site visits, regular total transparency and a collective understanding of all major issues.
the Company and support and the within a schedule of presentations from and its assets.
relationship between delegated authorities: and interaction No directors vote on Executive directors executives and reports regularly to with the businesses, matters concerning do not decide vote non-executives are the Board to keep all tailored induction with themselves.
on their own effective, supported directors informed on annual performance remuneration or on by the Company all key aspects of the evaluation and performance targets.
Secretary, policies businesses: financial on-going training and procedures.
performance, major and development risks, opportunities activities all help and compliance Board members to issues, HSE contribute effectively.
Accountability Approve the Annual Regular contact with Ensures programme Oversight of Report to the Board but Chairmen of Committees are accountable Report & Accounts.
and reports from CEO and processes financial reports, to shareholders for the work of the Committees.
effective for keeping trading statements, the Board fully other market informed on all communications, material aspects principal risks and of the Groups uncertainties, and operations.
Remuneration Give a binding vote Determines with the Determines with N A N A N A Determines the on the Remuneration executive directors the Chairman the level of executive policy report and the level of fees for level of fees for the remuneration and an advisory vote the non-executives non-executives.
the Chairmans fee on the rest of and is consulted by and consults with the Directors' the Remuneration the Chairman, remuneration report.
Committee major shareholders over executive and shareholder remuneration.
representative bodies on executive remuneration proposals.
Shareholder engagement AGM, meetings with Maintains an Maintains a Ensures processes Report to shareholders through the medium of the annual report and management and, appropriate level of programme of are in place for the also the platform of the AGM.
where necessary, engagement with meetings with major Board to be kept the Chairman or SID.
shareholders and, in shareholders to stay informed of investors Consults major his absence or where informed of investors views and market shareholders and inappropriate, the views and ensures expectations: their representative SID is available to appropriate relations alternative channels bodies when shareholders if they are kept with the exist for major proposing changes have any concerns.
financial press and shareholders to raise to executive market analysts.
any issue of concern remuneration.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 27 Corporate governance report continued Board composition internal and external auditors, members of the management and business As identified on page 24, the Board comprises 2 executive directors Chief leadership teams, as well as the Companys joint corporate brokers.
Executive and Finance Director and 4 non-executive directors Chairman All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company and 3 other non-executive directors.
The number of non-executives will Secretary and may take independent professional advice, as appropriate, increase following the appointment of Andrew Duff on 1 April 2014. at the expense of the Company.
Information about the executive directors service contracts with the Company is set out in the Directors' remuneration report.
All non-executive Director attendance in 2013 directors are appointed for three year terms that can be renewed by Audit Nomination Remuneration mutual agreement, subject to annual re-election by shareholders, Board Committee Committee Committee satisfactory performance and meeting independence requirements.
1 Ian Brindle 8 8 4 4 6 6 Non-executive directors who do not meet independence requirements David Dutro 8 8 under the Corporate Governance Code are appointed to hold office for Brian Taylorson 8 8 1 year at a time.
2 Andrew Christie 8 8 4 4 6 6 8 8 3 Anne Hyland 5 5 3 3 4 4 5 5 When Robert Beeston retired as Chairman on 31 July 2013, Ian Brindle was Kevin Matthews 8 8 4 4 6 6 8 8 appointed Chairman on 1 August 2013 until a more permanent replacement was recruited.
During this period, Ian Brindle was both the Chairman and Former directors Senior Independent Director.
When Andrew Duff becomes Chairman after Robert Beeston 3 5 2 3 the AGM on 24 April 2014, Ian Brindle will continue in his role as the Senior Chris Girling 4 5 2 3 2 3 4 5 Independent Director.
Further details about the non-executive directors 1 Ian Brindle became Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 1 August 2013. terms of appointment including fee levels are set out in the Directors' 2 A ndrew Christie became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on remuneration report.
Changes are expected to be made to the Boards 1 October 2013, a role previously held by Kevin Matthews until then.
3 composition this year, as described elsewhere in the Annual Report, in A nne Hyland became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013, a role previously held by Chris Girling until then.
connection with the Boards succession plans.
Communications with shareholders Board diversity A formal programme of activities is maintained throughout the year The Boards policy on gender diversity is that appointments will be to ensure there is effective communications with shareholders, analysts made on the basis of qualification and a preference for a woman would and the financial press that include stock exchange announcements, only be given in the event that two candidates are equally matched in investor meetings, the Annual Report and updates on the corporate all other respects in relation to the role specification.
In respect of the website.
In addition, the AGM gives institutional and private shareholders recommendations of the Davies Review into Women on Boards in 2011, the opportunity to speak with the directors: the Chairmen of the Audit the Board has not set a minimum target for the percentage of the Board and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
Since the Board is undergoing a refreshment process, this position will be kept under review during 2014.
Gender diversity The Board receives regular feedback reports from shareholders following below Board level is discussed in the Corporate responsibility report.
meetings with management in results and other investor roadshows.
Analysts forecasts and research reports about the Company and Board independence the wider chemicals sector, as well as presentations and reports from The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent the Companys joint corporate brokers, are provided to all directors in character and judgement throughout 2013.
The Board is satisfied on a timely basis, helping non-executive directors to develop a clear that each director exercises independent judgement and believes understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman and no individual or group dominates decision making.
Senior Independent Director are available for contact by shareholders at any time.
Board operation As well as the summary in Table 1 on pages 26 and 27 the Board From time to time, where appropriate, the Chairman and, in connection with maintains a schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision which remuneration proposals, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee includes: approval of strategic and annual operating plans: approval of will organise a programme of meetings with major shareholders to financial statements, acquisitions and disposals: risk compliance and update them on any significant developments in business strategy, management programmes, as well as insurance arrangements: major corporate governance matters or consult them on proposals for non-recurring projects and major capital expenditures: and major legal executive remuneration.
The Board reviews the business, financial and operational HSE performance of the Group at each of its formal meetings, By order of the Board including major business initiatives, threats and opportunities, as well as progress on product innovation and new customers.
To assist the Board in carrying out its duties, information of an appropriate quality is issued in a timely manner ahead of Board and committee meetings.
If there are any unresolved matters concerning Board decisions, Wai Wong of which there were none in 2013, these would be recorded in the minutes of Company Secretary meetings.
A programme exists to ensure new directors receive appropriate 25 February 2014 induction tailored to their needs.
A tailored programme of induction was agreed with Anne Hyland on her appointment which included meeting the 28 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013
