Nomination Committee report The Chairman and members of the Nomination Committee the Carried out a questionnaire based evaluation of the performance Committee are shown on page 24, together with their biographical of the Board, its Committees and individual directors including any information.
Six meetings were held during 2013 and the attendance training needs.
The questionnaire was designed in-house and records of Committee members are shown on page 28. feedback from the evaluation was discussed which concerned mainly the Board refreshment programme and the Groups strategy, A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available on the growth plans and business KPIs.
Following this evaluation, the Board Companys website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: considers that each director continues to perform effectively and demonstrates appropriate commitment to his her role.
Shareholders Reviewing the size and composition of the Board, together with are therefore asked to support the election re-election of all directors the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members at the AGM.
and making recommendations for change as necessary.
Reviewed and approved a draft Chairmans letter of appointment Carrying out an annual performance evaluation of the Board, and a list of topics and materials for inclusion in a tailored induction its committees and individual members.
Keeping succession planning for the Board and senior executive Discussed the progress on recruiting a new Chairman and made a team under review.
recommendation to the Board on the appointment of a new Chairman.
The following is a description of the work of the Committee to show Shareholders may find the biographical information provided on page 24 how it has discharged its responsibilities in 2013: useful to help them understand how a directors background or experience shapes or influences the contribution he or she makes to the Discussed and made a recommendation to the Board on the operation and effectiveness of the Board.
This will also assist shareholders candidates for the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
in assessing the skills and experience of the Board, as a whole, when Held a meeting of directors without the executives present to determining how to vote on certain resolutions at the AGM.
discuss the performance of the executive directors and the strategic direction and priorities of the Company.
As explained in my Chairmans statement, further changes will be made Met to consider: i Robert Beestons retirement as Chairman, to the Board during 2014 and Korn Ferry has been retained to assist the ii plans for initiating a search for a new Chairman, including the Board in the process.
appointment of Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann Korn Ferry to assist in the process and iii approving a Chairmans role specification.
The process was led by Ian Brindle who was the Senior Independent Director prior to his appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2014.
Korn Ferry has no connections with the Company other than as the retained recruitment adviser.
Received presentations from Korn Ferry concerning a long-list and short-list of potential Chairman candidates, discussed these Ian Brindle lists and selected from the short-list candidates for interview.
Chairman 25 February 2014 32 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013
