Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Audit Committee report Chairmans letter partner and the senior manager at all four of its formal meetings but it is This is my first report to shareholders and relates principally to the year end the Finance Director and finance teams who have most exposure to the audit for 2013.
In this introductory section, I provide a high level overview audit team.
of the work of the Audit Committee the Committee in relation to the three principal areas of focus under the Corporate Governance Code: One part of the evaluation process therefore involves the impressions and perceptions that are made and formed as a result of interactions between How, if any, significant accounting issues were considered the Committee and senior members of the audit team, as well as the views and addressed.
and opinions of members of the management team.
In addition to the Evaluation of the effectiveness of the auditors.
above, Committee members are able to obtain a better understanding of The reappointment of the auditors and safeguarding their objectivity the role and performance of the auditor through reviewing the quality of and independence, particularly in relation to non-audit services.
the work and materials presented by the auditors, as well as its quality and independence procedures.
An important part of our process is the A more detailed commentary on these and other areas is set out annual audit evaluation questionnaire which all Group finance managers elsewhere in this report.
are asked to complete and the result of which is then used by the Committee to assess audit effectiveness.
The questionnaire used is Significant accounting issues the template produced by KPMGs Audit Committee Institute which The primary areas of accounting judgement considered by the considers comprehensively different aspects of the audit process.
Committee in relation to the 2013 financial statements are listed below: Another way in which audit effectiveness can be monitored by the Committee is Audit Quality Inspection reports published by the FRC.
Provisions The Committee reviewed a number of structural changes affecting the The Committee considers the auditors performance to be satisfactory calculation of environmental provisions recorded in the Consolidated and that the audit is effective as measured against their letter of balance sheet.
These included the expiration of a legacy indemnity engagement and the scope of services agreed.
given to a third party, a gradual change in the duration of project spending leading to a review of appropriate discount rates and progress Audit reappointment, objectivity and independence updates on a number of key projects.
The Committee concluded that KPMG were appointed as the Groups auditor in 2004 and its first audit several changes should be made to the calculation of environmental was in respect of the 2004 financial year, making the 2013 audit the firms provisions in 2013 and these are more fully described in Note 15 to the tenth consecutive audit.
Due to the length of service an audit tender Consolidated financial statements.
was considered and it was concluded that a tender process was not necessary at this time as, during its 10 years in office, KPMG has rotated 3 Assumptions used to value pension scheme liabilities lead audit partners and one US audit partner, as well as the senior The Committee reviewed the assumptions used to value the liabilities of manager and audit team leaders periodically every 3 to 4 years.
This the UK, US and Dutch defined benefit pension schemes, as well as the includes the appointment of a new lead audit partner in 2013.
US post retirement medical plan, which the Groups actuarial advisers for each plan considered to be appropriate given the characteristics of Current guidelines suggest that the Committee should undertake an each plan.
audit tender process before 2018 within 5 years of a change of partner.
The Committee will keep this position under annual review and intends Revisions to IAS 19 Accounting for Employee Benefits to carry out an audit tender process by 2018.
The Committee reviewed the impact of the revised accounting standard on the Groups financial statements, with particular The comments concerning audit effectiveness also apply to audit emphasis on the new requirement to record pension plan objectivity and independence.
The Committee is of the view that the administration costs in the Consolidated income statement at the auditors are objective and independent notwithstanding the level of time those costs are incurred.
The Committee considered the nature non-audit services provided.
The Companys policy on non-audit of these costs as well as the main characteristics of the Groups services is more fully set out and explained in the next section.
relationship and interactions with its pension plans, noting that the majority of them are legacy schemes.
As a result, the Committee Fair, balanced and understandable concluded that shareholders and other stakeholders would gain a The Board and the Committee have been briefed internally and by the clearer understanding of the Groups performance if, in recording auditors on governance requirements for the Annual Report, taken pension administration costs in the Consolidated income statement, as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The Board and these costs were not included in Operating profit but rather shown Committee understand that fair should mean reasonable and impartial, as a separate item described as Other expenses.
balanced should mean even-handed in terms of being positive and negative and understandable should mean simple, clear and free from Exceptional items jargon or unnecessary clutter.
The Committee reviewed a number of items recorded in the Consolidated income statement which it considered should be The Board and Committee consider the Annual Report for 2013, taken separately disclosed because of their size, nature and incidence, as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, with appropriate thereby providing the reader with a better understanding of the signposting and emphasis being made, throughout the various sections, financial information presented.
It concluded that these items should to assist shareholders understand the information and disclosures be shown separately in the Consolidated income statement under contained within them.
Further details of these items are included in Note 5 to the Consolidated financial statements.
Audit effectiveness Judging the effectiveness of an audit can be a subjective matter, although performance is evaluated according to objective criteria.
As Chairman of Anne Hyland the Committee I meet with the audit partner frequently, including for both Chairman, Audit Committee audit planning and review meetings.
The Committee meets the audit 25 February 2014 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 29 Audit Committee report continued Information about the Committee Figure 1 The composition of the Committee and biographical information about each member is shown on page 24.
Both Anne Hyland and Ian Brindle are considered to have the necessary financial experience under governance requirements and all Committee members are considered to be independent.
The table on page 28 shows the number of meetings Board that were held in 2013 together with directors attendance records.
Sound internal control and risk management systems The Committees principal responsibilities are to: Monitor the integrity of Group financial statements and financial reporting and related statements, as well as the clarity and completeness of 3 4 disclosures including in narrative reports and governance statements accompanying financial statements and related statements.
2 Ensure the appropriateness of accounting policies, any changes to them and any significant estimates and judgements made.
Review the effectiveness of internal control, compliance and risk Management team 1 Audit Committee management systems including whistleblowing arrangements.
Risk management Internal controls Oversee all aspects of the relationship with the internal and external implementation control auditors, such as their terms of appointment, the scope, manner and programme of work, resourcing where appropriate, performance and effectiveness, independence and objectivity where appropriate and dismissal.
A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available on the Companys website.
Operation of the Committee Key: An important aspect of the work of the Committee is the role of its 1 Internal audit programme Chairman who maintains close relationships with the Finance Director, 2 Oversight of Internal control and risk management system General Counsel who is also Chief Compliance officer and both lead 3 Risk review process partners from the internal and external auditors.
Thus, as well as formal 4 Oversight of external auditors meetings and presentations from these individuals to the Committee, the Chairman of the Committee is able to discuss any matter on an individual basis outside of formal meetings and report any issue to the Committee as appropriate.
Another relevant feature is that Committee meetings are attended by all directors, as well as the external auditors, which helps Set out below is a summary of the key features of the Groups internal ensure transparency, share knowledge and improve understanding.
The Committee also meets with the external auditors once a year without management being present.
Control environment The Group has policies and procedures that set out the responsibilities While the Committees remit includes reviewing the effectiveness of the of business and site management, including authority levels, reporting internal control, compliance and risk management systems, the Board disciplines and responsibility for risk management and internal control.
retains responsibility for risk management see 'Risk management In addition annual compliance statements on internal control are certified report' for further details.
The Committees focus therefore is on financial, by each operating division.
operational and compliance risks and the internal audit function, which is outsourced to  PwC, plays a significant Risk identification and review role in the Groups internal control process.
A formal risk review process exists for the identification, evaluation and monitoring of risks.
See separate 'Risk management report'.
The Committees priorities are to monitor and keep under review our internal control and risk management system which is designed for the Financial reporting purposes of preventing material financial loss and fraud, safeguarding The Group operates a comprehensive financial reporting system including the value of assets including reputation and ensuring compliance with forecasts, consolidation and monthly reporting.
Board reports include full laws, regulations and Group policies.
management accounts, comprising monthly and year to date profit and loss statements, cash flow statements and balance sheet, with segmental and The relationship between the Board, Audit Committee and management individual business performance analyses, as well as relevant performance is shown in Figure 1. indicators.
Actual monthly results are monitored against budget, forecasts and the previous years results.
Any significant variances are investigated Internal control and risk management system and acted upon as appropriate.
As well as monthly management accounts, The Groups internal control and risk management system is only each operating division prepares an annual and a three year operating plan designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve which is approved by the Board.
Thereafter a formal re-forecasting exercise business objectives and therefore the Board can only provide reasonable, is undertaken three times a year.
and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board is of the view that an on-going process for identifying, Investment appraisal evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group was in There are clearly defined investment guidelines for capital expenditure.
place throughout the financial year under review and up to the date that All investment expenditure is subject to formal authorisation procedures, this Annual Report was approved.
No significant internal control failings with major proposals being considered by the Board.
or weaknesses were reported last year so none is disclosed here.
30 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Internal audit programme Programme of work An internal audit programme is proposed by PwC in consultation with the The table below summarises the Committees programme of work in Finance Director and approved by the Audit Committee each year, setting 2013 and gives a descriptive account of how the Committee discharged out a programme of audits over the course of the next 12 months.
programme covers the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
February Reviewed the 2012 Annual Report and associated press release accompanying the preliminary results statement, Controls assurance management representation letter to the auditors, internal The controls assurance framework at Elementis is threefold: control and going concern statements, litigation and compliance reports including on whistleblowing, the Board leadership supported by an open and transparent culture effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors, of no surprises, good governance and compliance.
This means considered the year end tax report, approved the description knowing and understanding the businesses, quality interactions of the work of Committee in the Annual Report and between the Board, management and business leadership recommended the reappointment of the external auditors.
teams including a regular programme of presentations and reports to the Board, as well as operational site visits.
June Reviewed half year report from the internal auditors PwC Internal and external audit programme, regular litigation and including reporting arrangements, considered a risk compliance reviews with the General Counsel and a programme management report from management on business of compliance audits, regulatory inspections, environmental continuity planning, considered the Committees activities reviews and property surveys by external specialists.
and the resources available to it and also training undertaken Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in which all employees are by Committee members and discussed tendering of the given training on and are required to self-certify compliance with, internal and external audit and tax adviser roles.
supplemented by an online compliance training programme, an anti-bribery and corruption policy, which contractors are also July Reviewed the 2013 interim results announcement required to sign up to, whistleblowing arrangements and an incorporating the management report and condensed anti-retaliation policy.
financial statements and notes, management representation letter to the auditors and the half year Non-audit services litigation, compliance and tax reports.
In 2013, non-audit services of $0.6 million from KPMG were approved December Reviewed year end report from the internal auditors and the by the Committee 2012: $0.8 million.
These services consisted mainly effectiveness of the internal audit programme, approved the of tax advisory services in relation to the US, UK, the Netherlands, reappointment of PwC as internal auditors and agreed fees Germany, China, Taiwan and Brazil.
KPMGs knowledge of the business and a programme of work for 2014, considered the external meant it could provide these services cost effectively and the safeguards audit plan for 2013, reviewed the external auditors quality explained previously mean the Committee does not consider the control procedures, independence and objectivity, provision of these services to affect the auditors independence considered their length of tenure, rotation of key partners and objectivity.
and the audit market, reviewed also the Groups policy on non-audit services and the level of expenditure incurred on The Companys policy on non-audit services contains guidance on the non-audit services with the external auditors and approved types of non-audit work that the external auditors may be considered for.
the level of fees for and the letter of engagement with the This guidance is in addition to other specified factors that must be taken external auditors.
into consideration, such as the expertise and resources of the firm, whether the services could risk jeopardising audit independence and the fee relative to the audit fee.
Examples of services that the external auditors may and may not be allowed to perform under the policy can be found on the Companys website under governance board committees related information.
Under the policy, the Finance Director may approve individual engagements where the fee is up to 15 per cent of the Groups audit fee for the previous year, provided that the total non-audit fees in the year do not exceed 50 per cent of that Group audit fee.
Decisions above these thresholds must be referred to the Committee for determination.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 31
