Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Key facts We account for 65 per cent of Group sales and 68 per cent of In North America sales of coatings additives improved by 5 per cent, Group operating profit in 2013. with acquisitions contributing 9 per cent to the year on year result.
The We are based in 27 locations around the world, in North and underlying result was influenced by the fact that the first half of 2013 had Latin America, Europe and Asia, and our sales are broadly split a particularly strong comparative period in 2012.
More normal trading between North America, Europe and Asia.
patterns were experienced in the second half of the year and sales in that We have over 900 employees globally, 12 manufacturing facilities, period improved by 3 per cent.
Sales volumes, excluding acquisitions, 3 research centres of excellence including a process development were similarly impacted by these demand patterns and hence, while full facility, 6 technical service centres and 11 dedicated sales offices.
year volumes were similar to the previous year, volumes in the second half Our top ten customers account for less than 24 per cent of total sales.
Another feature of the North American coatings sales In each key segment, the business has many competitors from in 2013 was the increasing percentage of additives for decorative coatings multinationals to smaller privately owned businesses.
compared to industrial coatings, as a result of new innovative product launches and the introduction of the new manufacturing plant in New What we do Martinsville, West Virginia, at the start of the year.
Additives for decorative We provide high value functional additives to the decorative and applications have similar margins to industrial products but often have industrial coatings, personal care and oilfield drilling markets that lower selling prices, hence the shift towards decorative products naturally improve the flow characteristics and performance of our customers led to the growth in sales volumes being higher than sales dollars.
We have significant expertise in the science of rheology which, in its In Europe sales improved by 1 per cent, with currency contributing simplest form, means our technology imparts thickness and viscosity 2 per cent to the year on year comparison.
For example, paint without rheological additives would have activity in the region was more stable in 2013 but showed no material the consistency of water but paint with our additives is smooth, growth.
Despite this, volumes were 5 per cent higher as the business homogeneous and has a controlled, even spread on a surface.
was able to introduce new decorative products, improve market share The same requirements for rheological additives exist in personal with key customers and increase sales to Eastern Europe and the care products, such as creams and lotions, and in oilfield drilling Middle East to deliver a solid performance with stable margins.
applications, providing viscosity control to thicken and suspend solids in drilling formulations and to stabilise stimulation packages Coatings sales in Asia Pacific improved by 8 per cent, with volumes up used in the drilling process.
11 per cent, as the business continued to deliver growth in excess of the underlying GDP for the region, with China representing almost 70 per cent How and where we do it of regional sales.
Capital investments to support new products, For a description of what makes us successful, who and where our exceptional technical service and manufacturing capabilities and an customers are and a list of our products and markets, refer to the extensive sales network enabled the business to continue to gain 'Business model' section on page 6. market share in China and the rest of Asia Pacific.
A map of our global locations is in the At a glance section on the Inside In Latin America sales improved by 48 per cent, largely due to the positive Front Cover.
impact of the Watercryl acquisition in Brazil towards the end of 2012.
The acquisition was fully integrated during 2013 and sales opportunities inside Key product applications and outside of Brazil are providing early synergy benefits.
Underlying Decorative coatings: homes, offices and similar environments.
sales improved by 4 per cent, with volumes up 5 per cent in the region.
Industrial coatings: protective applications in automotive, containers, furniture, flooring, marine, plastics and construction.
In Personal Care sales improved by 26 per cent as the business Oilfield: drilling and fracturing fluids utilised in oil and gas benefited from a variety of new hectorite formulations, the launch of extraction activities.
the Rheoluxe range of products, expansion into emerging markets, Personal care: antiperspirants, nail polish, mascara, make-up, particularly Asia and Latin America, and good growth in aerosol eye shadow, lipsticks, creams, lotions and suncare products.
Construction: concrete, plasters, mortars, renderings, stuccos, flooring systems and building adhesives.
Oilfield drilling sales were 14 per cent higher than the previous year, with volumes up 15 per cent, driven by strong fracturing and cold Key sector drivers climate drilling in the US and Canada and the return of deep water Decorative coatings: regulatory trend towards low VOC, drilling programmes in the Gulf of Mexico.
Drilling activity in North increasing consumer sophistication in emerging markets.
America returned to more normal levels in 2013, having experienced a Industrial coatings: increasing demand from customers for high temporary slowdown in the second half of 2012 as inventory levels were performance coatings that enhance their products and exposure corrected.
Sales in the first half of the year were therefore similar to the to higher growth emerging markets.
previous year, while sales in the second half were 38 per cent higher.
Oilfield drilling: exposure to shale oil and gas.
Personal care: increasingly sophisticated consumer demand Operating profit in 2013 was $99.1 million compared to $90.1 million in the and emerging market development.
previous year, an increase of 10 per cent, or 7 per cent excluding currency movements.
Operating margin remained consistent with last year, at 2013 Performance 20 per cent, demonstrating the inherent quality of the business in a period Specialty Products sales in 2013 increased by 10 per cent compared of strong sales growth and changes in sales mix.
There were no material to the previous year, or 8 per cent on a constant currency basis.
The changes in overall raw material and energy costs compared to the previous business continued to benefit from strong, diverse market positions year.
Fixed costs, excluding acquisitions, increased by only 2 per cent, in high growth areas, new product introductions and complementary despite the introduction of a new manufacturing facility in the US and acquisitions.
Overall pricing and margins remained stable throughout resource investments to support growth during the year, as strict cost the year, demonstrating the resilience of the business and the high value management remained a key foundation of the business.
Acquisitions added nature of the product portfolio.
contributed $1.2 million to the year on year increase in operating profit.
before exceptional items Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 09 Our businesses continued Elementis Chromium Dennis Valentino President of Elementis Chromium Our performance 2013 2012 Sales $214.8m $240.1m Operating profit $55.1m $62.8m SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 % SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 % Operating margin 26% 26% GEOGRAPHIC ROCE SEGMENT 52% 65% GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT before exceptional items 8 9 00% before tax and excluding goodwill 16 14 00% 00% 58 Split of sales revenue 55 18 22 Segment % Geographic % 00% North America Metal nishing North America Industrial coatings 6 7 13 Asia Paci c Other Asia Paci c Decorative coatings 15 35 Europe Timber treatment Europe Oil eld 17 57 Rest of the world Pigmentary Rest of the world Personal care 21 Leather tanning 29 Key facts We account for 26 per cent of Group sales and 38 per cent of Group operating profit in 2013.
We are the only domestic producer of chromium chemicals in the US and operate from two major facilities in Castle Hayne, North Carolina, and Corpus Christi, Texas, and three smaller processing facilities supplying local tanneries.
We have over 240 employees, most of whom are located in the US.
Our top ten customers account for less than 52 per cent of total sales.
The business has many competitors from multinationals to smaller privately owned businesses.
What we do We provide chromium chemicals to customers that make their products more durable and are used in a wide range of sectors and applications.
Our reputation for quality and operational excellence and our high levels of customer service and technical support are key differentiating factors that enable us to develop long term, mutually advantageous relationships with our customers.
10 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Elementis Surfactants How and where we do it Our performance For a description of what makes us successful, who and where our 2013 2012 customers are and a list of our products and markets, refer to the Sales $72.2m $72.5m Business model section on page 6.
SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 % SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 % Operating profit $5.6m $4.8m Operating margin 8% 7% A map of our global locations is in the At a glance section on the Inside GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT ROCE 25% 25% Front Cover.
9 3 4 5 7 00% before exceptional items Key products and applications 13 14 before tax and excluding goodwill 00% 15 39 00% Chromic oxide: as a pigment in paints, decorative coatings, 55 plastics, roofing tiles and ceramic tiles: in the construction of high Split of sales revenue 22 79 35 00% temperature and abrasion resistant refractory brick for glass and Segment % Geographic % fibreglass: and in the production of super alloy metals for use in Europe Industrial coatings Europe Oil eld production 4 1 aeroplane and land based turbines.
7 8 Rest of the world Decorative coatings Rest of the world chemicals 10 Chromic acid: in plating metal and plastic to produce a strong, 18 Asia Paci c Oil eld Asia Paci c Other 45 tarnish resistant chrome finish for appliances, automobiles and North America Personal care North America Textile & Leather 82 Water Treatment many other applications: and as a wood preservative for marine 26 Feed pilings, telegraph poles, landscape timbers and other industrial wood applications.
Chrome sulphate: in tanning to produce high quality leathers for a wide range of end uses.
Key facts Sodium dichromate: as an intermediate chemical to produce We account for 9 per cent of Group sales and 4 per cent of pigment for industrial coatings and traffic paint.
We share a manufacturing plant in Delden, the Netherlands, Key sector drivers with Elementis Specialty Products.
Chromic oxide: construction, coatings, aircraft engines and We employ over 140 employees at our Delden site.
Our top ten customers represent 73 per cent of total sales.
Chromic acid: automotive, heavy light machinery, construction The business has many competitors from multinationals to and infrastructure.
What we do We are in the process of transitioning to more higher margin 2013 Performance specialty additives.
Chromium sales in 2013 were 11 per cent lower than the previous year at Our facility is equipped with both continuous and multi-purpose $214.8 million.
Sales volumes were 5 per cent lower than the previous year batch reactors for a variety of chemical processes which, together as a planned maintenance shutdown in the early part of the year reduced with our expertise, allow us to produce a wide range of complex manufactured volumes.
This was exacerbated by related pre-buying by products, customised to meet our customers requirements.
customers towards the end of 2012, pulling some sales into that year.
Regional sales continued to be influenced by the strategy of the business: How and where we do it operating with a fixed manufacturing volume and optimising the For a description of what makes us successful, who and where our geographic and product sales mix to produce stable margins, earnings customers are, and a list of our products and markets, refer to the and cash flow.
In 2013, sales volumes for leather tanning applications in Business model section on page 6.
North America continued to be soft as tanneries adjusted to lower herd sizes and sales to chrome sulphate converters outside of the US were A map of our global locations is in the At a glance section on the Inside curtailed.
This reduction broadly matched the reduction in available Front Cover.
volumes due to the maintenance shutdown.
Hence sales volumes for other applications and for sales outside of North America were relatively 2013 Performance stable compared to the previous year.
Average selling prices in 2013 were Sales in Surfactants in 2013 were broadly the same in dollar terms as the 6 per cent lower than the previous year although this was partially offset previous year, at $72.2 million, or 3 per cent lower on a constant currency by lower raw material costs.
The majority of sales are denominated in euros.
Sales volumes were 8 per cent lower than the previous year, which is in line with the strategy Operating profit for 2013 was $7.7 million lower than the previous year at to transition the Delden facility over time to produce more higher margin $55.1 million, largely due to the reduction in sales volumes, while operating additives for Specialty Products.
Average selling prices increased by margin remained stable at 26 per cent.
Raw material and energy costs 4 per cent in response to higher raw material costs during the year.
trended lower during the year, leading to lower selling prices, while other fixed costs remained tightly controlled and made a positive contribution Operating profit increased to $5.6 million compared to $4.8 million in the to the year on year comparison.
Currency movements had no material previous year, as the business team continued to focus on higher margin impact on sales or operating profit as the majority of sales and costs products and disciplined cost management during the transition process.
in the business are denominated in US dollars.
Consequently operating margin improved from 7 per cent in the previous year to 8 per cent in 2013. before exceptional items Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11
