52 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder Role of the Audit Committee Strong governance is a key feature of the way EnQuest The remit of the Audit Committee is summarised below and manages its business and risks.
The Audit Committee has a is detailed in full in its terms of reference, a copy of which is vital role in providing assurance that the financial statements available on the Companys website www.
com under provide a true and fair view of the Groups financial affairs investors shareholder centre.
The main responsibilities of the and that our internal business control systems remain Committee are to: effective.
The way in which the Audit Committee discharged ``monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including these responsibilities in 2013 is set out in this report.
annual and interim reports and any other formal announcement relating to the Companys financial During 2013 the Committees work has focused on three key performance: areas.
Firstly, we considered the integrity of our financial ``monitor and review the process of audit of the Groups statements, and the key judgements and estimates that proven and probable reserves by a recognised Competent underpin these.
Details of these, and how we satisfied Person: ourselves as to their appropriateness, are set out in detail ``monitor and review the Companys internal control below.
Secondly, we monitored the effectiveness of our procedures and risk management systems: internal controls, primarily through reviewing the work of our ``monitor and review the effectiveness of the external and internal auditors in executing our approved internal audit internal audit activities: plan, and feedback from our external auditors.
And finally, we ``make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, monitored the activities and performance of both our review and removal of external auditors: internal and external auditors, assessing their quality, ``monitor whether any calls had been made to the externally independence and objectivity.
Further, we re-evaluated facilitated Speak Up reporting line: whether we should build our own internal audit team, or ``establish the external auditors remuneration: whether the current outsource arrangement remained ``monitor the external auditors independence: appropriate.
Further details of our work are outlined below, ``monitor the policy on external auditors non-audit services: and full details of the Committees terms of reference can be and found on our website.
``identify any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making In addition to these activities, in the light of the significant recommendations to the Board as to the steps to be taken.
spend on our new developments, Alma Galia and Kraken, the Committee has spent time considering the effectiveness Committee composition of our cost forecasting processes and cost controls over As required by the Code, the Committee is comprised major capital projects.
We will continue to focus on this area exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, biographies of whom with assistance from our newly appointed internal auditors, are set out on pages 44 and 45.
The Board is satisfied that  LLP PwC, during 2014. the Chairman of the Committee, a previous audit partner of a Big Four audit firm and member of the Institute of Chartered As the size and complexity of EnQuest continues to grow, the Accountants in Scotland, meets the requirement for recent Audit Committee is proactively directing activities to ensure and relevant financial experience.
the Groups governance and control mechanisms are appropriately expanded.
Examples of how we will be doing Membership of the Committee and attendance at the three this over the coming year include: meetings held during 2013 is provided in the table below: ``during 2013 management started an exercise to identify Attendance the various assurance activities taking place around the Date appointed at meetings Member Committee member during the year Group.
During 2014 the focus will be developed further Jock Lennox Chairman 22 February 2010 3 3 through an assurance mapping exercise to be conducted Clare Spottiswoode 1 July 2011 3 3 by PwC.
This will ensure that the Board has appropriate Helmut Langanger 16 March 2010 3 3 assurance over the Groups risks and other areas of their Phil Nolan 1 August 2012 2 3 responsibilities whilst avoiding duplication of effort: and ``embedding the Groups risk management policies Meetings are also normally attended by the General Counsel and governance and control mechanisms in our and Company Secretary, the Chief Financial Officer and the international locations.
Group Financial Controller and the external auditors.
The Chief Executive and Chairman of the Board also attend the Jock Lennox meetings when invited to do so by the Committee.
Deloitte Chairman of the Audit Committee LLP, in their role as internal auditors during 2013, attended 25 March 2014 the meetings as appropriate.
The Chairman of the Committee regularly meets with the external audit partner and the internal audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Company.
53 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Meetings during 2013 In line with the Committees annual schedule, since the Committee last reported to you, three meetings have been held.
A summary of the items discussed in each meeting is set out in the table below: Agenda item Aug 2013 Dec 2013 March 2014 Key risks, judgements and uncertainties impacting the half-year and year-end financial statements reports from both management and EY Internal audit findings since last meeting Internal audit plan for 2014 Re-evaluate appropriateness of outsourcing internal audit Results of internal audit re-tender Review and approve external audit plan, including key risks and planned approach Approve external audit fees subject to the audit plan Review level of non-audit service fees for EY Evaluate quality, independence and objectivity of EY Evaluate managements planned approach to giving Board comfort on fair, balanced and understandable statement Corporate governance update Presentation on the reserves audit and evaluation of their independence and objectivity Internal control update for international locations Appropriateness of going concern assumption Financial reporting and significant financial statement reporting issues The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to assess, amongst other things: ``the appropriateness of the accounting policies selected and disclosures made, including whether they comply with International Financial Reporting Standards: and ``those judgements, estimates and key assumptions that could have a significant impact on the Groups financial performance and position, or on the remuneration of senior management.
We consider these items together with both management and our external auditors, who both provide reports to the Audit Committee in respect of these areas at each Committee meeting.
The main areas considered during 2013 are set out below: Significant financial statement reporting issue Consideration Potential misstatement of oil and gas reserves In the March meeting, management presented the Groups 2P The Group has total proved and probable reserves at 31December reserves, together with the report from Gaffney Cline, our 2013 of 194.8 MMboe.
The estimation of thesereserves is essential reserves auditor.
to: `` the value of the Company: We considered the scope of the work performed by Gaffney Cline `` assessment of going concern: and their independence and objectivity.
We also considered the `` impairment testing: work performed by our external auditors, EY, in asserting the `` decommissioning liability estimates: and independence and objectivity of Gaffney Cline.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Considered and challenged the key assumptions made by Significant capital expenditure is incurred on projects and the management.
Consideration was also given to EYs view of the work fair value of these projects is a significant area of judgement.
At 31 December 2013, a total of $3.0 billion was capitalised in respect of oil and gas assets and goodwill, the recovery of which is dependent upon the expected cash flows of the underlying assets.
Adequacy of the decommissioning provision The Group commissioned Wood Group PSN to estimate the costs The Groups decommissioning provision is carried at $228 million involved in decommissioning each of our operated fields and facilities.
at 31 December 2013, which is based on a discounted estimate of the future costs and timing to decommissioning the Groups We reviewed the report by management summarising the key findings assets.
Judgement exists in respect of the estimation of the costs and their impact on the provision.
Regard was also given to the involved, and timing of decommissioning activities.
observations made by EY as to the appropriateness of the estimations made.
Tax We received a report by the Groups Head of Tax, outlining all The Group carries deferred tax balances at 31 December 2013 uncertain tax positions, and evaluated the technical arguments totalling $868 million of tax assets and $1,618 million of tax supporting the position taken by management.
We also took into liabilities.
Given the complexity of certain tax legislation, risk exists account the views of EY as to the adequacy of our tax balances.
in respect of some of the Groups tax positions.
For more information visit: www.
com 54 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Internal controls Internal audit We discharge our responsibility in respect of the Groups Since the flotation in 2010, the Group has outsourced its internal control environment through directing and reviewing internal audit function to Deloitte LLP on the basis that this the work performed by our outsourced internal auditors, would be more efficient and effective than building an considering the reports issued by our external auditors, and in-house function.
We reviewed that position during the year, through the reports issued by management in respect of and concluded that an outsourced function remains the most internal controls.
Further, we have regard for the other appropriate for a company of this size.
We will continue to assurance activity performed by the Groups Health, Safety, keep this under review.
Environment and Assurance team over the operational and HSE risks within the Group.
Together with management, a decision was taken to retender the internal audit contract.
This was in keeping with In respect of the work performed by the internal auditors, we best practice corporate governance, and in recognition of set the internal audit plan each year.
When setting the plan the fact that the initial three-year audit cycle had been we consider recommendations from management, the completed.
A key selection criteria considered during this internal auditors, and having consideration of the risks process was the level of experience and credentials in impacting the Company, which are reviewed by the Board.
respect of capital project management that each firm would The 2013 internal audit plan focused on: bring to EnQuest.
Following this re-tender PwC were ``the processes and controls in place in respect of cost appointed as EnQuests internal auditors.
forecasting for our major projects: ``a post implementation controls review of both the finance External audit Sunsystems and procurement Maximo systems One of the Committees key responsibilities is to monitor the implemented during 2013: performance, objectivity and independence of EY, EnQuests ``reviewing the controls and processes supporting the external auditor, who has been the Groups auditor since purchase to pay process: 2010.
Each year the Committee will review and agree the ``a supply chain management effectiveness review: audit plan and the associated fees.
The process for reviewing ``an HR report following up on the status of findings from a the performance of EY involves interviewing key members of previous internal audit: and the organisation who are involved in the audit process, on an ``reports detailing the controls planned to be implemented annual basis, to obtain feedback as to the performance of the to support the Groups international activities.
Additionally, the Audit Committee members take into account their own view of the In all cases the audit conclusions were that the systems and performance of EY when determining whether or not to processes were satisfactory.
Where control enhancements recommend their reappointment.
were identified, the Committee ensured that appropriate action was being taken by management to implement any We formally evaluated the effectiveness of EY during our agreed improvements.
August meeting, and concluded that the Committee continues to be fully satisfied with the performance of EY, and that EY continues to be both objective and independent.
As part of this process, the Committee considered the level of non-audit service fees provided by EY during the year, the compliance with our policy in respect of the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, and the safeguards in place to ensure continued independence and objectivity of EY.
In recommending to reappoint EY for 2014, the Committee took note of the reduction from the prior year in both the absolute size of non-audit fees from $898,000 in 2012 to $361,000 in 2013, and their size relative to audit fees from 213% in 2012 to 53% in 2013.
The Committee expects the ratio of non-audit to audit to remain below 1:1 going forward.
55 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Use of external auditors for non-audit services Raising concerns at work The Audit Committee and Board believe that the external Throughout the year, a whistleblowing procedure, titled the auditors independence and objectivity can potentially be Speak Up reporting line, has been in place across the affected by the level of non-audit services to EnQuest.
This allows employees and contractors confidentially However, the Committee acknowledges that certain work of to raise any concerns about business practices through an a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the external auditor.
Any disclosures under To ensure objectivity and independence, the Committee has these arrangements are investigated promptly and notified adopted a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, with follow-up services by its external auditor.
As part of this process the action being taken as soon as practicable thereafter.
external auditors provide the Committee with information about their policies and processes for maintaining Anti-bribery and corruption independence and monitoring compliance with current The Company has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and regulatory requirements, including those regarding the corruption.
The Group Code of Conduct and other policies rotation of audit partners and staff.
EY confirmed their to combat bribery are issued to all employees, with training independence and objectivity.
provided to ensure an understanding and awareness of the requirements of the policy.
The key features of the non-audit services policy, the full version of which is available on our website, are as follows: ``a pre-defined list of prohibited services has been established: ``a schedule of services where the Group may engage the external auditor has been established and agreed by the Committee: ``any non-audit project work which could impair the objectivity or independence of the external auditor may not be awarded to the external auditor: and `` delegated authority by the Audit Committee for the approval of non-audit services by the external auditor is as follows: Value of services per Authoriser non-audit project Chief Financial Officer Up to 50,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee Up to 100,000 Audit Committee Above 100,000 EY has served as the Companys auditors since the Company was first formed in January 2010, and has conducted each of the Companys external audits since formation.
The Committee has adopted the recently implemented requirement of the Code that FTSE 350 companies tender their external audit contracts every 10 years and, in line with this policy, will re-tender this function in 2020, if not sooner.
The Committee is aware of the EU developments that may make rotation of audit firms mandatory and may introduce further restrictions on the provision, by the auditors, of non-audit services.
We will keep these developments under review.
