81 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Report and the Group financial statements in accordance accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group at any time the financial position of the Group and enable financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply the Directors are required to prepare Group financial with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS statements under International Financial Reporting Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the Standards as adopted by the European Union.
assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Under Company law the Directors must not approve the irregularities.
Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group The Directors are also responsible for preparing the and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and preparing the Group financial statements the Directors are the Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with required to: Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including ``present fairly the financial position, financial performance the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and and cash flows of the Group: Transparency Rules.
``select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Fair, balanced and understandable Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate ``present information, including accounting policies, in a Governance Code, the Directors are responsible for manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and establishing arrangements to evaluate whether the understandable information: information presented in the Annual Report, taken as a ``make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the prudent: information necessary for shareholders to assess the ``provide additional disclosures when compliance with the companys performance, business model and strategy, and specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users making a statement to that effect.
This statement is set out to understand the impact of particular transactions, other on page 51 of the Annual Report.
events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and ``state that the Group has complied with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
For more information visit: www.
com 82 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ENQUEST PLC REGISTERED NUMBER: 07140891 We have audited the Group financial statements of EnQuest Opinion on financial statements PLC for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise In our opinion, the Group financial statements: the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group ``give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs Balance Sheet, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the the Group Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 year then ended: to 29.
The financial reporting framework that has been ``have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as applied in their preparation is applicable law and adopted by the European Union: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as ``have been prepared in accordance with the requirements adopted by the European Union.
of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken We identified the following risks that have had the greatest so that we might state to the Companys members those effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of matters we are required to state to them in an auditors resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent engagement team: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility ``the assessment of the carrying value of intangible and to anyone other than the Company and the Companys tangible assets: and members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for ``the impact of the estimation of the quantity of oil and gas the opinions we have formed.
reserves on impairment testing, depreciation, depletion and amortisation, decommissioning provisions and the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor going concern assessment.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 81, the Directors are Our application of materiality responsible for the preparation of the Group financial We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
on the Group financial statements in accordance with For the purposes of determining whether the financial applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK statements are free from material misstatement we define and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes it Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, Scope of the audit of the financial statements would be changed or influenced.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free a magnitude of uncorrected and undetected misstatements from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or that we judged would be material for the financial statements error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and $16.6 million.
Our evaluation of materiality requires have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: professional judgement and necessarily takes into account the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made qualitative as well as quantitative considerations implicit in by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial the definition.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2013 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
83 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our Our response to the risks identified above included the assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our following: judgement is that overall performance materiality that is our ``We challenged managements assessment tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or of impairment triggers and whether or not a formal balance for the Group should be 50% of materiality, namely impairment test was required.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to test was necessary we challenged managements ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit assumptions including specifically the determination differences in the financial statements as a whole do not of cash generating units, cash flow projections, discount exceed our materiality of $16.6 million.
rates, perpetuity rates and sensitivities used.
We performed detailed audit procedures on the impairment test model.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report ``We audited EnQuests internal process for reserves to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $1 million, estimation including the work performed by an external as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, specialist.
We assessed the objectivity and competence of warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
both internal and external specialists.
We also discussed and challenged the movements in reserves based on other An overview of the scope of our audit information we became aware of during the performance We used a risk-based approach for determining our audit of our audit.
We confirmed that the reserves information strategy, ensuring that our audit teams performed consistent has been consistently reflected in impairment testing, procedures and focused on addressing the risks that are DD&A, decommissioning and the assessment of going relevant to the business.
This approach focused our audit concern.
effort towards higher risk areas, such as significant management judgements, and on locations that were Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies considered material based upon size, complexity and risk.
Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the and our allocation of that materiality determined our Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the audit scope.
The factors that we considered when assessing financial statements.
the scope of the Group audit and the level of work to be performed at each location included the following: the financial significance and specific risks of the location, the effectiveness of the control environment and monitoring activities, including entity-level controls and recent internal audit findings.
Our Group audit scope focused on the activities in the North Sea, whilst the remaining locations were subject to testing based on our judgement of risk and materiality.
The North Sea represents the principal business unit within the Groups reportable segments and accounted for 99% of the Groups total assets and 102% of the Groups profit before tax.
com 84 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ENQUEST PLC REGISTERED NUMBER: 07140891 CONTINUED Matters on which we are required to report by exception Other matters We have nothing to report in respect of the following: We have reported separately on the parent Company financial Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to statements of EnQuest PLC for the year ended 31December you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration ``materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Report that is described as having been audited.
financial statements: or ``apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially Ernst & Young LLP inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in Gary Donald Senior Statutory Auditor the course of performing our audit: or for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor ``otherwise misleading.
London 25 March 2014 In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: ``certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or ``we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: ``the Directors statement, set out on page 80, in relation to going concern: and ``the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
