75 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder Nomination Committee membership The work of the Nomination Committee in the past year has The Nomination Committee currently comprises the been focused on maintaining a balance of experienced Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors and, Directors on the Board who can successfully manage to ensure input from the executives, the Chief Executive.
This year no changes were made The membership of the Nomination Committee, together to its membership.
Our focus has been on Board evaluation, with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, is set succession planning for the Executive Committee, and the out below: adoption of a new Board delegation of authority: the latter of Attendance at which establishes a revised framework for the approval of Date appointed meetings during Member Committee member the year financial levels throughout the Group.
James Buckee Chairman 22 February 2010 1 1 Amjad Bseisu 22 February 2010 1 1 Dr James Buckee Clare Spottiswoode 1 July 2011 1 1 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Helmut Langanger 16 March 2010 1 1 25 March 2014 Jock Lennox 22 February 2010 1 1 Phil Nolan 1 August 2012 0 1 Role of the Nomination Committee The role of the Nomination Committee is summarised below and detailed in full in its terms of reference, a copy of which is available on the Companys website www.
com under investors shareholder centre.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: ``review the size, structure and composition of the Board in order to recommend changes to the Board and to ensure the orderly succession of Directors: ``formalise succession planning and the process for new Director appointments: ``identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment as Directors taking into account the balance of knowledge, skills and experience required to serve the Board: and ``keep under review the outside directorships and time commitments expected from the Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee met once in 2013 and conducted a strategic review of EnQuests organisational model, as well as monitoring the succession considerations for its senior management.
The Board and Nomination Committee are satisfied that the individuals currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the Group have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that orderly succession to the Board and Executive Committee can take place.
For more information visit: www.
com 76 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Appointment of Directors Our gender statistics are representative of the demographics There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for of the wider oil and gas industry and are made up as follows: appointments of new Directors to the Board.
We use external consultancy services, which have no connection with the Gender ratios Company, in order to facilitate appointments and the Directors % Committee thoroughly reviews each candidate in terms of Male 86% the balance of skills, knowledge and level of independence Female 14% they would bring to the Board.
The Committee also gives careful consideration to other existing commitments a candidate may have and whether they will be able to devote the appropriate amount of time in order to fully meet what is expected of them.
Once the Committee has identified a suitable candidate a recommendation is made to the Board Senior managers % for appointment.
Male 94% Female 6% Succession planning 2013 was a year of stability for the Board which allowed the Committee to focus on succession planning.
Since the Company is still relatively young, only four years, the length of tenure of each of the Non-Executive Directors is not considered to be long enough to adversely affect their independence.
Nevertheless, succession planning for the Total employees % Non-Executive Directors is an area we consistently keep Male 77% under review, along with the succession planning of the Female 23% Executive Directors.
As the Company continues to grow both in the UKCS, and internationally, ensuring that the Board and senior management have the right blend of experience and skills and who demonstrate the EnQuest values in all that they do will be central to our success.
We will continue to work closely with the Chief Executive and the HR Director to ensure that we are recruiting and developing Board members and executive management with all of these attributes.
Re-election to the Board The effectiveness and commitment of the Non-Executive Diversity policy Directors has been subject to formal evaluation, and the The Board works hard to ensure that it is able to recruit Nomination Committee is satisfied with the time Directors from different backgrounds, with diverse commitment of each Non-Executive Director during the year.
experience, perspectives, personalities, skills and We are confident that each of them would be in a position to knowledge.
We believe that diversity amongst Directors discharge their duties to the Company in the coming year contributes towards a high performing, effective Board.
and continue to bring the necessary skills required to the Board.
Detailed biographies for each Director, including their EnQuest recruits where it works and 99% of our workforce skills and external appointments, can be found on pages 44 is made up of local staff.
As detailed in the 2014 Notice of AGM, all Directors will stand for re-election.
Conflicts of interest The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, manage conflicts or potential conflicts of interest with the Companys interests.
In accordance with the Directors interests provisions in the Companies Act 2006, all the Directors are required to submit details to the Company Secretary of any situations which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest.
The Board monitors and reviews potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
