49 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Statement of compliance agenda.
The Chief Executives role is the operational EnQuest is committed to the principles of corporate management of the business, developing strategy in governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance consultation with the Board and then implementing such Code the Code as issued by the Financial Reporting strategy.
The division of responsibilities between the Council in September 2012.
As a listed company, EnQuest Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly reports on how it has complied with the provisions of the established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board is pleased to report that the Company has complied with all the provisions of the The Board has full and timely access to all relevant Code throughout the year under review.
information to enable it to perform its duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Board composition Chairman, on all governance matters.
In addition, each The Board of Directors is currently made up of two Executive Director has access to the advice and services of the Directors and five Non-Executive Directors, including the Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the Chairman.
All of the Directors served throughout the Board, in furtherance of its duties, to take independent reporting period.
Their biographies, including prior professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense, experience, are set out on pages 44 and 45. up to a pre-determined limit.
EnQuests policy is to hire the best candidates for all Role of the Non-Executive Directors purposes at all levels throughout the business, irrespective of The Non-Executive Directors have a mix of business skills, gender, including candidates at Board level.
With one female knowledge and experience which allows them to provide Non-Executive Director, Clare Spottiswoode, 14% of the strong, independent judgement and an external perspective current Board is female.
Our overall gender statistics, which to the Board discussions.
In turn, this leads to a diversity of can be found on page 76 of the Nomination Committee views being aired at Board meetings, robust and constructive report, are representative of the demographics of the wider debate and an environment conducive to optimal decision oil and gas industry.
At present, the Board has not set any making.
At the same time, it reduces the likelihood of undue specific aspirations in respect of gender diversity at Board dominance from any one perspective.
However, the Board recognises the benefits of gender diversity and will continue to ensure that this is taken into A key role of the Non-Executive Directors is to scrutinise the account when considering any particular appointment.
executive management in meeting agreed objectives and to monitor the reporting of performance.
The Non-Executive Whilst there were no changes to our Board of Directors in Directors, in conjunction with the Chairman, meet at least 2013, Paul Waters stepped down as Company Secretary in once annually in order to facilitate this.
They also ensure that October 2013.
Paul had served at EnQuest since its inception financial controls and systems of risk management are both and was instrumental in its flotation in 2010.
Stefan Ricketts, rigorous and appropriate for the needs of the business.
in addition to his existing role as General Counsel has assumed the position of Company Secretary.
Senior Independent Director Helmut Langanger continues to be the Senior Independent The role of the Board Director.
His role is designed to give comfort to fellow The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically Directors and shareholders that there is a Director on the reserved to it for decision, which has been approved by the Board to whom they can turn if ever they have concerns Board.
Its reserved matters include determination of the about the way the Board is being run which they cannot overall strategy of the Group, to review business plans and address with the Chairman.
His role also is to provide a trading performance, to approve major capital investment sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an projects, examine acquisition opportunities and divestment intermediary with other Directors when necessary.
The Senior possibilities, review significant financial and operational Independent Director meets with the other Non-Executive issues, and review and approve the Companys financial Directors without the Chairman present at least annually in statements, control and risk management systems.
order to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
The outcome of their 2013 evaluation was positive.
The Board delegates the execution of its strategic objectives to the executive management.
Operational management of How the Board operates the Group on a day-to-day basis is managed by the During 2013, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, Operations Committee, which comprises members of the five of which were held at the Companys registered office in Executive Committee, Asset Managers and selected senior London, and one meeting was held offsite.
attendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings of the principal Board Committees, are set out in the table on Chairman and Chief Executive page 50.
During the year, a number of other meetings took The Chairman is an independent Non-Executive Director.
His place to deal with specific matters that required key responsibility is the leadership of the Board, ensuring its consideration at short notice and, in each case, notice was effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting the duly given to all the Directors.
Any Director who is unable to For more information visit: www.
com 50 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED attend scheduled or short notice Board meetings in Board Committees person is invited to join the meeting by video or telephone The Board has established an Audit Committee, a conferencing facilities, or is given the opportunity to be Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee, each consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each of these Committees satisfy the requirements of the Code and are reviewed internally on The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting is an ongoing basis by the Board.
Copies of the terms of drawn up by the Company Secretary in consultation with the reference are available on the Companys website.
Chairman and with agreement from the Chief Executive.
Formal minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are The Committees are provided with all necessary resources to circulated to all Directors prior to the next Board meeting enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committees addition, the Chief Executive is in frequent contact with the and minutes of all Committee meetings are available to Non-Executive Directors between meetings in order to keep all Directors.
them updated with progress on the Groups business.
The Chairman also meets the Non-Executive Directors informally, Induction, information and support without any executives present, to discuss matters in respect New Directors receive a full induction following their of the business.
appointment, covering the activities of the Group and its key business and financial risks, the terms of reference of the Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee Board and its Committees and the latest financial information meetings about the Group.
The table below sets out the attendance record of each Director at scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings The Chairman ensures that Directors update their skills, during 2013: knowledge and familiarity with the Company in order to fulfil their roles on the Board and on Board Committees.
Ongoing Board Audit Remuneration Nomination training is provided as necessary and includes updates from meetings Committee Committee Committee the Company Secretary on changes to the Listing Rules, Meetings held requirements under the Companies Act and other regulatory in2013 6 3 3 1 matters.
Directors may consult with the Company Secretary at any time on matters related to their role on the Board.
Executive Directors 1 Amjad Bseisu 6 n a n a 1 1 Jonathan Swinney 6 n a n a n a Board evaluation The Board evaluation process consists of an annual internal Non-Executive review exercise together with an independent third party Directors evaluation carried out at least once every three years.
1 Dr James Buckee 6 n a n a 1 Helmut Langanger 6 3 3 1 A thorough external Board effectiveness review was Jock Lennox 6 3 3 1 conducted at the beginning of the 2013 financial year by Phil Nolan 5 2 3 0 Clare Spottiswoode 6 3 3 1 Consilium Board Review, who have no connections to the Company.
The process consisted of a questionnaire, one-toNotes: one structured interviews with each Director and selected n a not applicable where a Director is not a member of the Committee.
Amjad Bseisu, Jonathan Swinney and James Buckee have attended Committee senior management, and a full Board discussion of the meetings by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
The external facilitator also dealt with the evaluation of the Chairman, by having a Phil Nolan missed one Board meeting, one Audit Committee separate discussion with the Senior Independent Director.
meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting, each The outcome was positive.
occurring on the same day.
These meetings were missed due to unavoidable business commitments.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have provided assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and can dedicate sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
51 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The review confirmed that we are building from a strong We encourage our people to raise any issues or concerns base, with an informal, engaged and supportive working they may have either internally or through our external Speak climate on the Board, coupled with a healthy level of Up reporting line.
There was one Speak Up case reported challenge and debate.
Relations between Executive in 2013, which was resolved satisfactorily.
Directors and Non-Executive Directors are good and there is a strong degree of alignment on the areas requiring Relations with shareholders attention over the coming year as part of the Boards The Company has an investor relations programme through commitment to continuous improvement.
The review which the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and generated a number of insightful suggestions which have senior management regularly meet with major shareholders.
been implemented by the Board, which have included: In 2013, numerous investor and broker sales meetings were ``the Board agenda has been streamlined in order to ensure held, presentations were made at international conferences that key issues have been allocated sufficient time for and a capital markets day was held in London, which together Board consideration and discussion, by separating the provided for comprehensive and engaging dialogue with reports for discussion information against reports that shareholders and potential investors.
The Company require Board approval: periodically arranges for formal surveys of investor opinion to ``improved format for Board papers: and be conducted, these are reported in full to the Board.
``a 12-month rolling agenda has been prepared in order to ensure that the Board addresses all of the key issues Corporate governance at EnQuest is designed to promote throughout the year.
the long term interests of our shareholders, strengthen management accountability, and foster responsible decision At the end of the financial year under review, we conducted making.
At the end of the 2013 financial year we invited the an internal Board effectiveness review, which consisted of a Governance Officers from our leading institutional discussion between the Senior Independent Director and the shareholders to an opportunity to meet with the Chairman Non-Executive Directors to discuss the Chairmans and Senior Independent Director in order to discuss any performance, and a questionnaire sent to the full Board by governance issues that they may wish to raise with the the Chairman seeking opinions on the performance and Company.
This invitation was made in order to help ensure effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual that we are openly promoting high standards of corporate Directors.
The principal areas covered within the governance.
questionnaire were: ``strategy and investment matters: The Company issues its results and other news releases ``interaction with shareholders: promptly and publishes them on the Companys website at ``internal control and corporate governance: www.
Other corporate information issued ``administration, support and development of the Board: during the year is also available on the website.
Shareholders and and other interested parties can subscribe to receive news ``Board membership and proceedings of meetings.
updates by email by registering online on the website.
The outcome of this process was discussed by the Board as a 2013 Annual Report whole and the Board agreed that the Company is served by a Following extensive review, the Board has concluded that strong, cohesive Board.
Certain recommendations have been the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, as a whole, is fair, added to the Board action list for implementation, some of balanced and understandable and provides the information which, such as conducting a technical review the day before necessary for users to assess the Companys performance, Board meetings, have already been trialled with success.
Human rights Annual General Meeting The Company recognises the importance of having high The Board uses the Companys Annual General Meeting standards in all areas of governance, this includes the area of AGM to communicate with investors and welcomes their human rights.
In line with the recent expansion of our participation.
All shareholders, or their duly appointed proxies, overseas activities we are refining our approach to these are entitled to attend the AGM, at which the Board members areas to ensure that the Companys policies are robust for are present.
The Board views the AGM as a good opportunity international as well as local operations.
Our values will to meet with smaller private shareholders.
A summary remain consistent with our existing Code of Conduct and will presentation of results is given by the Chief Executive before comply with all applicable laws.
the Chairman deals with the formal business.
All shareholders present can question the Chairman, the Chairmen of the Anti-bribery and corruption Committees and the rest of the Board both during the In 2013 we further embedded and extended our antimeeting and informally afterwards.
corruption programme, including launching a Group-wide training programme for all employees.
By the end of the year the greater majority of our employees had completed the training, which is being extended to all new joiners.
For more information visit: www.
