Governance Report The Boards agenda is managed to ensure that shareholder CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION value and governance issues play an important part in its During the course of the past year, and in addition to the decision making.
Boards activities described below, the Board has invested The Board delegates to management the day-to-day considerable time and effort to ensure that Ted Tuppens operation of the business, subject to appropriate risk retirement as Chief Executive, and future succession parameters.
Board meetings are scheduled to coincide planning including Simon Townsends appointment as with key events in the Companys financial calendar, Teds successor has been properly planned and executed.
including interim and final results and the AGM.
Other I am also pleased to report that the Boards initiative meetings during the year will review the Companys last year of allocating various operating functions in the strategy and budgets for the next financial year and the Company to individual non-executive directors including Companys key risks as well as reviewing each of the main myself as Chairman to both sponsor, mentor and engage operating functions financial, operational and property.
with directly, has been a complete success.
The exercise has helped to clarify the Board and its processes with Board Committees the senior managers, and provide non-executives both Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, with greater in-depth knowledge of the business they are the Board has delegated to its Audit, Nomination and mentoring, and the quality of talent below Board level.
The We intend to continue with this initiative.
terms of reference for each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are published on the Robert Walker Companys website.
Separate reports for each of these Chairman Committees are included in this Annual Report and Accounts from page 39.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE Role of the Chairman GOVERNANCE CODE 2012 The Board is chaired by Robert Walker.
The Chairman is The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code sets responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the out guidance in the form of main principles and specific Board, taking into account the interests of stakeholders provisions on how companies should be directed and and promoting the highest standards of governance.
A controlled to follow good governance practice.
The rules summary of the Chairmans responsibilities has been of the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA require listed agreed by the Board, is set out in writing and is available companies incorporated in the UK to disclose, in relation on the Companys website.
In accordance with the Code, to the Code, how they have applied those principles the Chairman met with the non-executive directors twice and whether they have complied with the provisions during the year, without the executive directors being throughout the financial year.
present, to discuss in detail matters which they believed to be relevant for the purposes of the strategic business The Company reviews its compliance with the Code review, including key operational and financial issues, regularly and considers that it has fully complied with performance of the Chief Executive and overall feedback the provisions of the Code that are applicable to it for the arising from the performance evaluation process.
whole of the year ended 30 September 2013.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 39 to 43, the Role of the Chief Executive Nomination Committee Report on page 44 and the Ted Tuppen is the Chief Executive and is responsible Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 61 are for the preparation, evaluation and implementation of also incorporated into this Report by reference.
the Companys strategic goals and leading the senior management team.
The role is distinct and separate to LEADERSHIP that of the Chairman and clear divisions of accountability Role of the Board and responsibility have been agreed by the Board, are set out in writing and are available on the Companys website.
The Board has a collective responsibility to promote the long-term success of the Company for its shareholders.
Role of the Senior Independent Director Its role includes reviewing and approving key policies and SID decisions of the Company, particularly in relation to Group strategy and operating plans, governance and compliance David Maloney is the SID.
He is available to shareholders, with laws and regulations, business development provides a sounding board to the Chairman and including major investments and disposals and, through serves as an intermediary for the other directors if its Committees, financial reporting and risk management.
The SIDs role includes responsibility for the Chairmans appraisal and succession.
A summary of the The Board has established a schedule of matters reserved responsibilities of the SID has been agreed by the Board, for Board decision.
This schedule details key aspects of is set out in writing and is available on the Companys the affairs of the Company which the Board does not website.
In compliance with the Code, the SID met with delegate, including key strategic, operational and financial the other non-executive directors during the year in a issues.
A copy of the schedule of matters reserved can be forum that did not include the Chairman or the executive found on the Companys website.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 35 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 35 10 12 2013 14:20:00 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Report Independence of directors Role of the Company Secretary The Board has a strong independent element and Loretta Togher is the Company Secretary.
The role of the currently comprises, in addition to the Chairman, three Company Secretary is to develop, implement and sustain executive directors and three non-executive directors.
This includes supporting The Chairman and all of the non-executive directors the Chairman and non-executive directors as necessary, throughout the year are considered to be independent in managing Board and Committee meetings, facilitating character and judgement: they satisfied the criteria in the the induction of new directors, ensuring appropriate Code on appointment and continue to satisfy the criteria.
Directors and Officers insurance is in place and that The non-executives have a wide range of skills and the Group is compliant with statutory and regulatory experience: they constructively challenge management: governance requirements.
The written responsibilities of help develop the Companys strategy and have satisfied the Company Secretary have been agreed by the Board, themselves as to the integrity of the Groups financial are set out in writing and are available on the Companys information, controls and risk management strategy.
Further information about how they have achieved this EFFECTIVENESS can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 39 to 43 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages Meetings and attendance 45 to 61.
The Board held six scheduled meetings in the year under All directors may take independent professional advice review.
In addition, a strategic business review was held at the Companys expense.
There is a formal written off site at which high level strategic issues, such as procedure, available on the Companys website, future business direction and its financial and operational concerning independent professional advice and setting implications, were reviewed and debated.
The Board has out clear guidelines which have been agreed by the Board.
an agreed approach for dealing with conflicts of interest As, at the date of this Report, Susan Murray has served in relation to matters which are scheduled for Board more than nine years on the Board she will be retiring at consideration, although no such conflicts arose during the AGM of the Company in 2014.
David Maloney has been the year under review.
If directors are unable to attend on the Board for over five years and his re-appointment is meetings then they are consulted prior to the meeting subject to a rigorous review.
Peter Baguley was appointed and their views made known to the other directors.
to the Board after the AGM held on 31 January 2013 and A monthly board pack is prepared at the end of each is, therefore, subject to re-election at the forthcoming financial period which includes an update on key AGM.
The Board believes that Susan Murray, David performance targets, trading performance against budget Maloney and Peter Baguley continue to display all of the and includes detailed financial data and analysis including qualities of independence as set out in the Code.
a review of applicable financial covenants.
Board papers are generally circulated seven days prior to meetings to ensure directors have sufficient time to review papers ahead of the meeting.
Attendance at scheduled meetings is set out below: Attendance at Board and Committee Scheduled meetings during year ended Board 30 September 2013 meetings Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings held 6 3 5 4 Robert Walker 6 3 i 5 4 ii Ted Tuppen 6 3 i 5 4 ii Simon Townsend 6 3 i Neil Smith 6 3 i Susan Murray 6 3 5 4 David Maloney 6 3 5 4 Peter Baguley iii 4 2 3 3 David Harding iv 2 1 2 1 i Robert Walker, Ted Tuppen, Simon Townsend and Neil Smith attended meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
ii Robert Walker and Ted Tuppen attended meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
iii Peter Baguley was appointed on 31 January 2013 and, therefore, did not attend meetings held before this date.
iv David Harding retired on 31 January 2013 and, therefore, did not attend any meetings held after this date.
36 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
com Stock code: ETI for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 36 10 12 2013 14:20:01 The completed questionnaires were reviewed on an Training and development individual basis by the Chairman, who then had discussions The Companys directors have a wide range of expertise with each director.
The results of the review including as well as significant experience in strategic, financial progress against the previous years recommended and operational matters.
All new directors receive a actions were summarised by the Chairman and personalised induction programme designed to develop considered in detail by the Board.
This years review found their knowledge and understanding of the Group, its that last years actions had been fully implemented: that culture and operations.
On his appointment, Peter performance of the Board and its Committees continued Baguley undertook such an induction, which included to be effective in dealing with both day-to-day and onmeetings with senior management across the Group and going strategic issues: and that the Board and Committee third party advisers such as the Companys stockbrokers structure ensured that the governance requirements of and legal advisers as well as visiting pubs and meeting the business were met.
The specific actions identified for Publicans with regional management.
the Board from this process, were that: Training and briefings are also available throughout the business mentoring system discussed above in a directors tenure as necessary, taking into account the training and development section was working their existing qualifications and experience.
During the well and had been particularly welcomed in the current year, the non-executive directors were partnered business.
The process will be continued for another with senior managers: they met with them: attended year with each non-executive director continuing as meetings: and participated in field visits.
Feedback was mentor to the same senior manager with a view to given and considered by all of the non-executive directors rotating responsibilities in 2015: and to provide good insight, add value and allow for positive up to three of the six Board meetings will be held engagement between the directors and their partners outside of the head office and specifically in each from the senior management group.
It is envisaged that of the three operating regions at locations to be this will continue and consideration will be given to the determined by the regional managing directors: this rotation of mentors.
will include a presentation before the Board from All directors have access to management and to the regional management.
advice of the Company Secretary, who regularly updates The Chief Executive is responsible for regularly reviewing the Board on material governance and compliance issues.
the executive directors performance against objectives The training and development needs of directors are and the Chief Executives performance is assessed by the reviewed and assessed by the Chairman as part of the Chairman in consultation with the non-executive directors.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee regularly reviews executive director performance in connection Board evaluation with their performance objectives.
The Chairmans performance is appraised by the SID in consultation Evaluation of the boards of FTSE350 companies should with the non-executive directors, taking into account the be externally facilitated at least every three years.
The views of the executive directors, and the non-executive Company became a constituent of the FTSE350 in directors performance is reviewed by the Chairman.
December 2012 and expects to commission an external As a result of these individual reviews, it is considered evaluation within the next two years.
The Board conducted that the performance of each director continues to be an internal Board evaluation during the year.
This process effective and that each director demonstrates sufficient was led by the Chairman and each director completed an commitment to their role.
Consequently, the Chairman in-depth questionnaire which covered: can confirm that each director is suitable for re-election performance of the Board including consideration of except for Ted Tuppen and Susan Murray, both of whom how the Board works together as a unit : will be retiring at the AGM in 2014. processes which underpin the Boards effectiveness The Nomination Committee is responsible for proactively including consideration of the balance of skills, reviewing and refreshing the Boards composition and experience, independence and knowledge of the further information about the roles and responsibilities of persons on the Board : this Committee can be found on page 44. strategy: Election of directors performance of the Audit, Nomination and The directors comply with the requirements of the Code Remuneration Committees: and and submit themselves for re-election every year, if they individual performance giving consideration to wish to continue serving and are considered by the whether each director continues to contribute Board to be eligible.
Accordingly, the whole Board, with effectively and show commitment.
the exception of Ted Tuppen and Susan Murray, will be proposed for re-election at this years AGM.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 37 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 37 10 12 2013 14:20:01 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Report As regards governance issues, the Chairman aims to meet Service agreements with most of our major shareholders shortly after the The service agreements of the executive directors and previous years annual general meeting.
These meetings copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive with shareholders are timed early in the process and directors are available for inspection during business quite deliberately, so that the Board has enough time hours on any weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and to consider, and respond to, any shareholder concerns public holidays at the registered office of the Company well in advance of the next years Annual Report.
The and will be available for inspection for fifteen minutes Chairman normally contacts as many shareholders as prior to, and during, the AGM.
possible, and not simply the very largest, to ensure the widest consultation possible particularly given current External appointments market volatility and also to ensure that the views of a shareholder who has substantially increased its stake The executive directors may accept outside appointments during the year, have been fully taken into account.
provided that such appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability to perform their duties as executive Following the announcement of results, an investor directors of the Company.
None of the executive directors relations report is produced for the Board which currently hold any such outside appointments.
summarises feedback from shareholders and ensures the Board has a balanced view from our major investors.
In The role of non-executive director requires a time addition, the Board receives a monthly updated analysis commitment in the order of 15 days per annum plus of the shareholder register and material movements in additional time as necessary to properly discharge their holdings.
There is no restriction on outside appointments provided that they do not prevent the directors from The Company ensures that any price-sensitive information discharging their responsibilities effectively.
is released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with regulatory requirements.
All major ACCOUNTABILITY presentations are available to all shareholders through the The Board should present a fair, balanced and Companys website.
understandable assessment of the Companys position Shareholders may choose to receive the annual and and prospects: maintain sound risk management and interim reports either in paper form or electronically.
internal control systems and manage an appropriate These reports, along with a wide range of shareholder relationship with the Companys auditor.
information, are also available on the Companys website.
Further information about how these principles have Additional information for shareholders can be found on been applied is detailed in the Audit Committee Report pages 117 and 118. on pages 39 to 43.
AGM REMUNERATION Shareholders receive at least 20 working days notice Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, of the AGM.
The AGM offers the opportunity for the retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run Board, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination the Company successfully, whilst avoiding paying more and Remuneration Committees, to communicate the than is necessary for this purpose, and there should be a Companys progress directly to shareholders.
The Board formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on aims to ensure that all members of the Board, including executive remuneration.
in particular the Chairmen of the Board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
To encourage Further information about how these principles have been shareholders to participate in the AGM process, the applied is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report Company offers electronic proxy voting through the on pages 45 to 61.
CREST service and all resolutions are proposed and voted on at the meeting on an individual basis by shareholders RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS or their proxies.
Voting results are announced on the same We are committed to, and place a great deal of importance day as the meeting through RNS and made available on on, having an active dialogue with our investor base.
Company maintains constructive engagement with its Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to key stakeholders including institutional shareholders.
be held on 6 February 2014 can be found in the Notice During the year, our Chief Executive and Chief Financial convening the AGM on pages 119 to 122.
Officer met with a number of our leading shareholders to discuss issues relating to the performance of the Group, By order of the Board strategy and new developments.
In addition, the Chairman engaged with the majority of our top ten shareholders R M Walker on a range of governance matters.
The SID and the other Chairman non-executive directors are available to shareholders to 18 November 2013 discuss any matter they wish to raise.
38 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
