Audit Committee Report challenging as necessary the judgements and actions of CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION management in relation to the financial statements.
Dear Fellow Shareholders, The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit for ensuring the financial statements, when taken as a Committee the Committee during the 2013 financial whole, are fair, balanced and understandable.
year, a year that has seen a number of regulatory changes The Committee considers the appointment and, where which have reinforced the role of the Committee, on appropriate, re-appointment of the external auditor: behalf of the Board, in ensuring that the Annual Report, its reports to the Committee: its independence, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
remuneration, terms of engagement and objectivity, In this report I have detailed how the Committee has including its appropriateness to undertake non-audit discharged its responsibilities in relation to the three work: and reviews the nature, scope and effectiveness of areas highlighted in the revised Corporate Governance the external audit.
Code, being: We also review the internal audit programme, ensuring addressing significant financial statement reporting management follow-up on issues raised and we conclude issues: on the effectiveness of the internal audit function: review and monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal assessing external audit effectiveness: and, control and risk management systems: review the Groups appointing the external auditor and safeguards on systems and controls for preventing and detecting fraud non-audit services.
and bribery and review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise Members of the Committee have continued to take an concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting active role understanding certain aspects of the business or other matters.
and the risks and challenges it faces, including spending time with the operations and property teams in the The Committee reports to the Board on how we have field and also participating in key discussions on areas discharged our responsibilities.
The full terms of reference of financial judgement, such as the valuation meetings are available on the Companys website, or on request to between the external auditor and professional valuers.
These actions have allowed us to have an even greater input, for example in the design of the internal audit What the Committee did in 2013 programme, and to develop greater awareness of the We met three times during the year, during which day-to-day challenges that the business faces and the time we: potential consequences of such challenges.
reviewed the interim and year end results and Set out below are details on the processes we have in preliminary announcement: place to safeguard the independence and objectivity of our relationship with the external auditor and the role received and considered, as part of the review of the played by internal audit to ensure we have effective interim and annual financial statements, reports from control and risk management processes.
the external auditor in respect of the auditors review of the interim results, the audit plan for the year and David Maloney the results of the annual audit.
These reports included Chairman, Audit Committee the scope of the interim review and annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the auditor to address and conclude upon key estimates and other key COMPOSITION audit areas, the basis on which the auditor assesses materiality, the terms of engagement for the auditor The Audit Committee was chaired during the year by and an on-going assessment of the impact of future myself, with the other non-executive directors, Susan accounting developments on the Group: Murray, David Harding until his retirement from the Board on 31 January 2013 and Peter Baguley from his considered the Annual Report and Accounts in appointment on 31 January 2013, all being members of the context of fair, balanced and understandable the Committee.
By virtue of my former executive and and reviewed the content of a paper prepared by current non-executive director positions full details of management with regard to this principle in relation to which are set out on page 34, the Board considers that the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
This provided us I have current and relevant financial experience and also with the supporting detail to ensure that we were in that all members of the Committee are independent.
a position to report to the Board that the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts when taken as a whole were ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES fair, balanced and understandable on the basis that the description of the business agrees with our own The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the understanding, the risks reflect the issues that concern interests of shareholders are protected in relation to us, appropriate weight has been given to the good and financial reporting and internal control: monitoring the bad news, the discussion of performance properly integrity of the annual and interim financial statements: reflects the story of the year and that there is a clear monitoring any formal announcements relating to the and well-articulated link between all areas of disclosure: Companys financial performance: and reviewing and Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 39 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 39 10 12 2013 14:20:01 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Audit Committee Report considered the effectiveness and independence of Going concern the external audit and recommended to the Board the The Group has to comply with a number of financial re-appointment of Ernst & Young as external auditor: covenants that relate to the financing structure of the improved our collective expertise in relation to the Group as set out in note 23 on pages 90 to 98 of the valuation of the Groups pub assets through the accounts.
Reaching a conclusion on the reliability of appointment of Peter Baguley, who has previously the budgets prepared by management is considered held a number of senior management positions in the important to the Committee to ensure that covenants UK retail sector with a strong focus upon property: will not be breached and the Group will remain a going concern.
received reports from management concerning various historical taxation and pension issues: The Committee therefore reviewed, challenged and concluded upon the Groups going concern review considered and agreed the annual internal audit plan: including giving due consideration to the appropriateness of key judgements, assumptions and estimates considered the review of material business risks, underlying the budgets that underpin the review and a including reviewing internal control processes used to review of compliance with key financial covenants.
This identify and monitor principal risks and uncertainties: also facilitated the Committees approval of the Groups reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups impairment review in respect of its tangible and intangible whistleblowing policy: fixed assets.
Included in the key assumptions underlying the impairment review was the discount rate utilised in reviewed the Committees composition and confirmed such calculations in relation to last year and those used by that there is sufficient expertise and resource for us to other companies in the industry.
The Committee was able fulfil our responsibilities effectively: to conclude that there was no need to change the rate at reviewed the Committees terms of reference: and the current time.
carried out an annual review of the Committees Deferred tax performance.
The provisioning for deferred tax remains a complex SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED IN area requiring the Group to reflect the interaction RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS between multiple elements of tax legislation and the specific requirements of IFRS.
The application of these During the year the Committee, management and the requirements to a pub estate comprising in excess of external auditor considered and concluded on what the 5,000 individual assets, introduces further risks which are significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial addressed through the use of detailed tax models against statements and how these would be addressed.
information held on an asset by asset basis.
Valuation of the estate The Committee ensures that adequate resource is dedicated to the on-going maintenance of these tax The Group has a policy of accounting for its licensed models, that the output of these models is subject to estate at fair value based on an annual revaluation robust and rigorous internal review and that, where exercise performed by two independent valuers and necessary, management has validated the manner in an internal team of chartered surveyors.
The value of which tax legislation and or IFRS should be applied with property, plant and equipment is the largest number on external advisers, including the auditor where appropriate.
the Balance Sheet and the resultant movements following the annual revaluation are also significant.
The valuation ASSESSMENT OF EFFECTIVENESS OF of the pub estate, including assets held for sale, against EXTERNAL AUDIT the backdrop of continued difficult economic conditions is a key consideration.
The Committee therefore focuses The Committee reviewed the external auditors attention on understanding and challenging the valuation.
performance and on-going independence, taking into account input from management, consideration of As I reported last year, I attended the meeting held responses to questions from the Committee and the between the external auditor and each of the external audit findings reported to the Committee.
As part of independent professional valuers and the internal the process, the Committee reviewed the auditors professional valuers.
This year I was joined by my nonperformance against criteria identified as part of the executive colleague Peter Baguley, who has extensive re-tender process in 2012, together with the feedback property experience.
In discussions at the meeting from the Public Report on the Audit Quality Inspection of and subsequently with the external auditor we were Ernst & Young, issued by the FRC in May 2013. assisted in our review by detailed analysis prepared by both management and Ernst & Young to understand the Based on all of this information the Committee concluded underlying basis of, and conclusions reached in respect that the external audit process was operating effectively of, the annual valuation of the Groups pub assets further and Ernst & Young continued to prove effective in its role details of which are set out in note 17 to the accounts on as external auditor.
40 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
com Stock code: ETI for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 40 10 12 2013 14:20:01 The total fees paid to the external auditor during the year APPROACH TO APPOINTING THE under review amounted to 299,000, of which 134,000 EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND HOW related to non-audit services.
Full details are set out in OBJECTIVITY AND INDEPENDENCE ARE note 8 to the accounts on page 77.
SAFEGUARDED RELATIVE TO NON-AUDIT Independence safeguards SERVICES In accordance with best practice and professional The Company has adopted a policy on the independence standards, external auditors are required to adhere to a of auditors which is consistent with the ethical standards rotation policy whereby the audit engagement partner published by the Audit Practices Board.
A key issue for the is rotated after five years.
The current audit engagement Committee that may impair auditor independence, and partner was appointed in 2011.
The external auditors are the auditors objective opinion on the Groups financial also required to periodically assess whether, in their statements, is the engagement of the external auditor for professional opinion, they are independent and those the provision of non-audit services.
views are shared with the Committee.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement The Committee has authority to take independent advice of external auditors for the provision of non-audit services as it determines necessary in order to resolve issues and reviews this annually.
The policy is designed to ensure on auditor independence.
No such advice was required that such engagements do not result in the creation of during the year.
a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group, that a transparent process and reporting structure Independence assessment by the is established to enable the Committee to monitor policy Committee compliance and that unnecessary restrictions on the engagement of auditors for non-audit services is avoided The Committee is satisfied that the independence of where the provision of advice is commercially sensible the external auditor is not impaired due to the fact that and is more cost effective than other providers.
the audit engagement partner rotation policy has been complied with: the level of fees paid for non-audit services The policy specifies: was of a level that does not present any on-going threat services that are specifically not permitted, this to their independence and separate external firms are includes work relating to accounting records that appointed for taxation advisory services.
will ultimately be subject to external audit, valuation In addition to the above, the Committee met with the services, remuneration advice for key management external auditor and with the Head of Internal Audit and the provision of strategic advisory or consultancy without the presence of management during the year services: and I have had regular contact with the audit engagement services that are permitted with prior approval of the partner during the year.
Robert Walker also had two Chief Financial Officer, this includes accounting advice private meetings with the audit engagement partner and reviews of accounting standards and advice, due during the year.
diligence matters as required by debt prospectuses: assurance work in respect of tax matters including tax Re-appointment of the external auditor compliance, routine tax planning and tax consultancy The re-appointment of Ernst & Young as the Groups services: and external auditor incumbent since the Company started services that are permitted with prior approval of the trading in 1991 was reviewed during the year.
The audit was put out to tender during 2012, with Ernst & Young Audit Committee, this includes any new engagement for an individual service or specific project other than chosen to continue with the audit services and KPMG appointed for taxation services, and the Group intends defined within the above two categories.
to put the audit out to tender at least every 10 years as The Chief Financial Officer reports to the Committee required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
annually outlining all proposals considered during the The Committee has assessed the performance and year and the decisions taken, any proposals which the independence of the external auditor which underpins its Committee is or has been requested to approve and the recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders current level of expenditure for non-audit fees.
the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as auditor until the During the year, the Company engaged the external conclusion of the AGM in 2015.
Full details are set out in auditor in the provision of non-audit services, primarily the Notice convening the AGM on pages 119 to 122. relating to the resolution of certain legacy tax issues There are no contractual restrictions over choice of auditor.
that it had been advising on previously in its role as tax adviser.
As part of the tender process in 2012, KPMG were appointed as the new tax adviser and are therefore used for the preparation of tax computations and all new tax matters arising.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 41 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 41 10 12 2013 14:20:01 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Audit Committee Report regular review by the Board of financial budgets, ROLE OF INTERNAL AUDIT forecasts and covenants with performance reported Internal audit has a Group-wide remit and is independent to the Board monthly: and of its business operations.
It undertakes an on-going a detailed investment process for major projects, programme to provide assurance on the adequacy of including capital investment coupled with a postinternal control and risk management processes across investment appraisal analysis.
It is responsible for reviewing and reporting on the effectiveness of internal controls and risk In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal management systems to the Committee and, ultimately, control the Committee has: the Board.
The Head of Internal Audit attends Committee received six-monthly self-assurance statements meetings to present the findings of such reviews at completed by key senior managers that controls regular intervals throughout the year and reports on and risk management processes in their business internal audits performance against the agreed annual units have operated satisfactorily.
These returns are internal audit plan, such plan being agreed during the year reviewed in detail and challenged where appropriate by the Committee.
by the Head of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK and the Group Financial Controller, who together compile and update a risk register to monitor all of MANAGEMENT the risks facing the business.
The key risks are then The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal summarised for review and approval by the Committee controls for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
for use in the Annual Report and Accounts: It carries out such a review at least annually, covering regularly reviewed the financial and accounting all material controls including financial, operational and controls: compliance controls and risk management systems.
reviewed the internal audit reports: The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve monitored managements responsiveness to the business objectives and can only provide reasonable and findings and recommendations of the Head of Internal not absolute assurance against material misstatement or Audit: loss.
met with the Head of Internal Audit once during the Operating policies and controls are in place, and have year, without management being present to discuss been in place throughout the year under review, and their remit and any issues arising from internal audits cover a wide range of issues including financial reporting, carried out: and capital expenditure, information technology, business decided to undertake a formal evaluation and continuity and management of employees.
Detailed independent assessment of the internal audit function policies ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial in the forthcoming year.
reporting and the preparation of financial statements including the consolidation process.
The key elements In respect of Group financial reporting, the finance of the Groups on-going processes for the provision of department is responsible for preparing the Group financial effective internal control and risk management systems, statements using a well-established consolidation process in place throughout the year and at the date of this Report, and ensuring that accounting policies are in accordance include: with International Financial Reporting Standards.
All financial information published by the Group is subject to regular Board meetings to consider matters reserved approval by the Committee.
for directors consideration: There have been no changes in the Companys internal regular management reporting, providing a balanced control over financial reporting during the year under assessment of key risks and controls: review that have materially affected, or are reasonably an annual Board review of corporate strategy, including likely to materially affect, the Companys control over a review of material business risks and uncertainties financial reporting.
facing the business: The Board, with advice from the Committee, is satisfied established organisational structure with clearly that an effective system of internal controls and risk defined lines of responsibility and levels of authority: management processes are in place which enable the Company to identify, evaluate and manage key risks an internal audit function which implements the and which accord with the guidance of the Turnbull annual internal audit plan and provides independent Committee on internal control updated by the FRC in assurance to executive management, the Committee 2005.
These processes have been in place since the start and the Board on the effectiveness of internal controls of the financial year and up to the date of approval of the and risk management: accounts.
Further details of risk management frameworks documented policies and procedures: and specific material risks and uncertainties facing the business can be found on pages 25 to 29.
42 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
indd 42 10 12 2013 14:20:01 ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION CODE OF CONDUCT The risks of bribery, corruption, fraud or theft exist in every company.
The Group is committed to conducting its business with the highest degree of integrity.
This commitment includes a zero tolerance approach towards all forms of bribery, corruption, fraud and theft and procedures within the Company have been designed to minimise these risks.
The Group has in place an antibribery and corruption code of conduct which has been formally approved by the Board and extends to all of the Groups business dealings and transactions involving its directors, officers, employees or third parties including, but not limited to, agents, advisers, contractors, Publicans or suppliers engaged in business with the Group.
Engaging in fraud, bribery or corruption is unlawful and any employee, director or officer found to have breached the code of conduct will be liable to disciplinary action which may result in dismissal or other serious sanctions.
Breaches of the code of conduct by third parties may result in immediate termination for breach of all contracts with the Group.
A copy of the code of conduct is available on the Companys website.
There have been no recorded instances of bribery or corruption during the period under review.
WHISTLEBLOWING The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy which encourages employees to report any malpractice or illegal acts or omissions or matters of similar concern whether in the UK or elsewhere by other employees or former employees, contractors, Publicans, suppliers or advisers using internal mechanisms for reporting.
The policy acts as a mechanism to report any ethical wrongdoing or malpractice or suspicion which may amount to ethical wrongdoing or malpractice.
Examples of ethical wrongdoing or malpractice include bribery, corruption, fraud, dishonesty and illegal practices which may endanger employees or other parties.
There have been no instances of whistleblowing during the year under review.
ACCOUNTABILITY The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys financial position and prospects.
The responsibilities of the directors and external auditor are set out on pages 62 and 112.
As set out in the Directors Report, the directors consider the Companys business is a going concern.
D O Maloney Chairman, Audit Committee 18 November 2013 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 43 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 43 10 12 2013 14:20:02 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
