Nomination Committee Report including interviews, with both external and internal CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION candidates.
As a result, the decision was taken Just as the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring in November 2013 to appoint Simon Townsend, the performance and condition of the Groups financial currently the Companys Chief Operating Officer, as and physical assets, so the Nomination Committee Chief Executive with effect from 6 February 2014. the Committee is responsible for monitoring the Simon will work closely with Ted in ensuring that the performance, appropriateness and future succession of management transition is both smooth and calibrated, the Companys executive and Board talent.
Reflecting this and that there is no disruption in the running of the importance, and as a result of a heavy workload dealing business: with both executive and non-executive succession, the completing the search for a non-executive director Committee met five times this year.
with extensive experience of retail and commercial In November we announced Ted Tuppens retirement property, culminating in the appointment of Peter as Chief Executive after over 20 years of outstanding Baguley, formerly property director of Sainsbury and service: and the appointment of Simon Townsend as his Boots, on 31 January 2013: successor.
We also made changes to the Boards nonrecommending the appointment of David Maloney, executive membership see below.
currently Chairman of the Audit Committee, as Senior Robert Walker Independent Director in January 2013 to replace David Harding.
David Maloney has been a member of the Chairman, Nomination Committee Board for five years: scoping out the brief for the replacement of COMPOSITION Susan Murray as non-executive director.
Following discussions with our leading shareholders, this brief In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, will seek a candidate with substantial customer the majority of the members of the Committee were service and strategic skills: independent non-executive directors.
During the year, the Committee was chaired by myself with Susan Murray, reviewing the senior management structure and talent David Maloney, David Harding until his retirement from below Board level, leading to the recommendation not the Board on 31 January 2013, and Peter Baguley from to replace Simon Townsends current position as Chief his appointment on 31 January 2013 as members of the Operating Officer: Committee.
working with Heidrick & Struggles to create detailed ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES plans for the personal development of the senior management team, that will report to Simon The principal role of the Committee is to identify and Townsend as future Chief Executive: and nominate for Board approval, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The Committee does finally, reviewing the Committees terms of reference, this proactively, recognising it is important to plan Board and conducting the annual review of the Committees succession well in advance, and to ensure that the performance.
Companys Board and executive leadership skills are fully DIVERSITY aligned to the Companys long-term strategy.
Whilst we pursue diversity, including gender diversity, In planning these appointments, the Committee prepares a full description of the role, skills and capabilities required: throughout the business, and the Board endorses the aspirations of the Davies Review on Women on Boards, appoints external search firms, each time reviewing available options, and ensuring that the firm selected has we are not committing to any specific targets.
Instead, we will seek to use executive search firms who have signed up to the relevant industry codes for example, on diversity : and finally, engages from time-to-time with the signed up to the voluntary code of conduct setting out the seven key principles of best practice to abide by Groups major shareholders on future skills requirements and ideas for potential candidates.
throughout the recruitment process and we will continue to follow a policy of appointing talented people at every In addition, the Committee takes care to ensure that there level to deliver high performance.
We will also ensure that is a continuous pipeline of high-performing and executive our development in this area is consistent with our own talent beneath Board level.
In this sense the Nomination strategic objectives and is enhancing in terms of Board Committee provides a broader HR role.
What the Committee did in 2013 R M Walker The main focus of the Committees work in 2013 included: Chairman, Nomination Committee 18 November 2013 selecting a high-calibre candidate to succeed Ted Tuppen as Chief Executive, given his desire to retire.
After discussion of alternatives, Heidrick & Struggles, an external recruitment firm who have no other connection with the Company, were selected to conduct an extensive search and benchmarking, 44 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
com Stock code: ETI for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
