Essar Energy plc 52 Governance Annual Report and accounts 2013 Board of Directors Prashant Ruia, 44 Simon Murray CBE, 73 Naresh Nayyar, 61 Philip Aiken AM, 64 Chairman Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Director April 2010 and appointed April 2010.
Appointed to the Board in April 2010.
Experience Experience Experience Mr Prashant Ruia has been Mr Simon Murray has extensive Mr Naresh Nayyar joined involved with Essar Groups business experience through Essar Oil Limited in October Experience operations and management his involvement with Jardine 2007 and served as its Mr Philip Aiken has over 40 since 1985 and he is Matheson and Davenham Managing Director and CEO years of experience in industry fundamental to its strategy, Investments, Hutchison until 1 December 2011.
He and commerce having worked continued growth and Whampoa and Deutsche Bank now serves as the Deputy for BHP Billiton, BTR and BOC diversification both within group.
In 1993, Mr Murray was Chairman of Essar Oil Limited.
based in both Australia and India and internationally.
Mr appointed a CBE for his Prior to joining Essar Oil, the UK.
Previous positions Ruia is known for his project contribution to the Hong Kong Naresh Nayyar was the CEO have included Group management skills, financial community.
He has also been of ONGC Mittal Energy President Energy, BHP Billiton, expertise and people awarded the Order of Merit of Limited a joint venture Executive Director, BTR and management capabilities.
the French Republic and is a between Oil & Natural Gas Managing Director Gases Chevalier fide la Legion Corporation Limited and Europe and Regional Director External appointments dhonneur.
Mittal Investments from South Pacific BOC.
Mr Prashant Ruia holds November 2005 to several key positions on External appointments September 2007.
Previous External appointments various regulatory and Mr Simon Murray is currently directorships include Indian Mr Philip Aiken is currently professional Boards, and the Chairman of GEMS Ltd Oil Corporation, Oil & Natural Chairman of Aveva plc, Senior wasa member of the Prime anda Director of Cheung Kong Gas Corporation, Petronet Independent Director of Minister of Indias advisory Holdings Ltd, Orient Overseas LNG Ltd, IBP, and Lanka IOC Kazakhmys plc and a council on trade and industry International Ltd, Wing Tai Limited where he served as Non-Executive Director of in 2007.
He is currently a Properties Ltd, Richemont SA, Chairman.
He was also National Grid plc and member of the Audit and IRC Limited.
He also Chairman of the Indian Oil Newcrest Mining Limited.
Committee of the World Steel serves on the advisory Board Marubeni Panipat Power During the year Mr Philip Association and a member of of Lightbridge Corporation Project between March 2003 Aiken was appointed to the the Energy Boardroom at the USA, SouthWest Energy BVI and November 2005.
Board of the Companys World Economic Forum.
Ltd, and is a senior advisor on subsidiary, Essar Oil Limited.
the International Advisory External appointments Committee memberships Council of Huawei None.
Committee memberships Member of the Nominations Technologies Co. Ltd, PRC.
Chairman of the Health, and Governance Committee.
MrMurray was previously Committee memberships Safety and Environment Chairman of Glencore until Member of the Health, Safety Committee.
Member itsmerger with Xstrata in and Environment Committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee memberships Committee.
Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 53 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Ravi Ruia, 64 Sattar Hajee Abdoula, 54 Subhas Lallah S. C. 68 Steve Lucas, 59 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board on 29 April 2010.
Experience Experience Experience Experience Mr Ravi Ruia has overseen Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula Mr Subhas Lallah is a Senior Mr Steve Lucas was formerly Essar Groups globalisation wasa founder partner and is Counsel in Mauritius and has Finance Director at National plans including new ventures currently the CEO of Grant had a legal career that spans Grid plc from 2002 to 2010. in Africa, South East Asia and Thornton in Mauritius.
He has represented Previously he worked for 11 the Middle East and has led also the lead partner for domestic and international years at Royal Dutch Shell the acquisitions of Algoma litigation support.
Mr Abdoula companies in arbitration.
and for six years at BG Steel now called Essar Steel has over 30 years of MrSubhas Lallah is a former Group, latterly as Group Algoma in Canada and of experience in audit, member of the Board of Treasurer.
Mr Lucas retired Minnesota Steel now called consultancy and taxation Governors of the Mauritius last year as a Non-Executive Essar Steel Minnesota in the withsignificant experience Broadcasting Corporation, Director of Compass Group United States.
He was the inproviding advice to global was Chairman of the National plc where he was Chairman recipient of the Business India businesses on structures and Transport Corporation, was of the Audit Committee.
Mr Businessman of the year in tax issues.
Mr Abdoula is a amember of parliament of Lucas has significant 2010.
Mr Ruia belongs to the chartered accountant and had the Republic of Mauritius expertise in energy and generation of industrialists who a successful career with BDO between 1982 and 1995 power, infrastructure finance have played a significant role in London before moving to andwas also a Deputy Chief and treasury.
He has extensive Whip and Deputy Speaker of renaissance.
An engineer advisory experience in Africa the National Assembly.
External appointments bytraining, with proven and has also advised the Mr Steve Lucas is currently entrepreneurial skills, he has Ghanaian Government on External appointments aNon-Executive Director of helped to develop the Essar fiscal issues.
Mr Subhas Lallah is an Transocean Ltd and Tullow Group with his elder brother, Independent Director on the Oil plc where he is the Mr Shashi Ruia, to become External appointments Boards of Mauritius Eagle Chairman of the Audit one of the leading names in Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula is Insurance Company Ltd, Committee and a member the global industry.
currently on the Board of two Mauritian Eagle Leasing Co ofthe Remuneration non-bank financial institutions Ltd, Deutsche Bank Offshore Committee.
During the External appointments in Mauritius.
During the year Mauritius Ltd and a number yearMr Steve Lucas was None.
Mr Abdoula was appointed to of international funds.
appointed to the Board of the the Board of the Companys Companys subsidiary, Essar Committee memberships subsidiary, Essar Oil UK.
Chairman of the Committee memberships Remuneration Committee.
Committee memberships Chairman of the Audit Member of the Nominations Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the of the Health, Safety and Remuneration Committee.
