Essar Energy plc 56 Governance Annual Report and accounts 2013 Governance framework The Board is responsible for setting the strategic direction ofEssar Energy and for ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
In February and September each year the Senior Management team presents the proposed strategy to the Board.
This provides an opportunity for the Board to critically review the strategy with management.
The budget discussion, also in February, is essential for ensuring that the right resources are in place to deliver the agreed strategy and the annual business plan.
In addition, the Board regularly reviews the framework for the Companys finance, banking and authority guidelines.
As Company Secretary, I manage the provision of timely, accurate and considered information to the Board and ensurethe Board maintains its awareness of the ever-changing corporate governance environment.
These last few years have been challenging in corporate governance terms with the numerous reviews and consultations aimed at examining and improving remuneration disclosures, corporate governance arrangements and, of course, the issue of Board diversity.
TheBoard recognises the importance of diversity and that it isa much wider issue than gender.
The Board agrees that its members should collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise and industry knowledge, and business and other experience necessary for the effective oversight of the Groups business.
The Board also believes in the value and importance of diversity throughout the Group, but does not consider it appropriate or in the interests of the Company or its shareholders to set prescriptive, quantitative diversity targets.
As Company Secretary, Imanage the provision of timely, accurate and considered information to the Board and ensure the Board maintains its awareness of the ever-changing corporate governance environment.
Frances McCaw Company Secretary 23 June 2013 Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 57 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Essar Energy Group Board Audit Committee Remuneration Nominations Health, Safety Committee and Governance and Environment Committee Committee Governance structure Directors nationality The reports of each of these committees are set out on pages 60 to 61.
2 1 British The balance and independence of the Board Indian Mauritian Australian The structure of the Board 3 1 Executive Directors 5 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors Non-Independent 2 Non-Executive Directors Governance of the Company The Company complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2010 which applies to all premium listed companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Code can be found on the FRCs website.
The Board intends The Board consists of eight Directors, made up of the Chairman, to report against the revised Code published in September Chief Executive Officer and six Non-Executive Directors, of 2012 in its 2014 Annual Report.
Biographies of all the Board members appear on pages 52 to 53 of this Annual Report.
During the 12 months ended 31 March 2013, the Company has complied with the Code in all respects, save that in respect Prashant Ruia is the Chairman of the Company and is of Code Provision A.
Prashant Ruia did not meet the considered a related party for the purposes of the Listing Rules independence criteria set out in the Code on his appointment of the UK Listing Authority.
Ravi Ruia is a Non-Executive Director as Chairman due to his involvement with Essar Group.
Naresh Nayyar is the Chief Executive Officer of Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive the Company.
The remaining five Non-Executive Directors are Officer considered Prashant Ruia to be best placed to take over determined by the Board to be independent in character and the role of Chairman when Ravi Ruia stepped down in 2011, due judgement in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance to the depth and breadth of his knowledge of the Company and Code.
Their independence provides a strong foundation for its strategy, business activities and operations.
The Board is the decision making body for all matters Directors experience background % materialto the Companys finances, strategy and reputation.
Itis collectively responsible for the long-term success of the 20 Company and has ultimate responsibility for the management, Essar Group 13 direction and performance of the Group and its businesses.
Indian Energy Market The Board is required to exercise objective judgement on all Oil and Gas corporate matters and is accountable to shareholders for the 20 Financial proper conduct of the business.
International 27 20 Essar Energy plc 58 Governance Annual Report and accounts 2013 Governance framework continued The matters which are reserved for the Board are set out in a How the Board operates formal schedule, approved by the Board and include: Philip Aiken is the Senior Independent Director and is available `` the overall Group strategy and long range plans: to address shareholders concerns that have not been resolved `` stewardship of business performance: through the normal channels of communication with the `` devising and reviewing the corporate governance structure Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, or of the Group: in cases when such communications would be inappropriate.
`` approval of all new capital projects and any acquisitions including joint ventures or divestments: There is a clear division between the roles of Chairman `` approval of the annual budget, including maintenance and andChief Executive Officer and a written statement of their project capital expenditure, and the operating plan: responsibilities has been approved by the Board.
The `` delegated levels of authority and the annual and half-year Chairman is responsible for the operation, leadership and financial results and shareholder communications: governance of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness and `` the system of internal control and risk management: setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible `` the Group management structure: for guiding the implementation of Board strategy and policy `` recommending dividend policy for shareholder approval: with respect to the Groups business, with the assistance of the `` appointment of external auditors: Senior Management team.
`` entering into related party transactions: `` entering into new committed financial facilities: The Board holds at least four scheduled Board meetings a `` approving the Financial and Treasury Risks Policy: and year and in addition meets on an ad hoc basis in response `` appointments to the Board.
Generally, the meetings of the Board and Board Committees are held at the Essar Energy Head Office in Otherwise, the day-to-day management of the Company is Mauritius.
During the period, there were four scheduled Board delegated to, and run by, the Chief Executive Officer and the meetings two of which were held over two days and two ad Senior Management team.
The Board has also delegated hoc meetings.
A table of attendance of members of the Board specific responsibility to the four Board Committees, being the and Board Committees at meetings held during the period is Nominations and Governance Committee, the Remuneration set out below.
Committee, the Audit Committee and the Health, Safety and In addition to the four scheduled meetings of the Board during Environment Committee.
Further information on each of the year, two further meetings were held which focused solely these Committees is set out on pages 60 to 61 of this on a review of the Companys strategy.
You can find further information on our website www.
Nominations Health, and Safety and Board meetings Remuneration Audit Governance Environment Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Scheduled Ad Hoc meetings meetings meetings meetings Prashant Ruia 3 4 0 2 3 3 Ravi Ruia 1 4 0 2 Naresh Nayyar 4 4 0 2 2 3 2 Philip Aiken 4 4 1 2 3 3 2 2 3 3 Sattar Hajee Abdoula 4 4 1 2 4 4 3 3 2 Simon Murray 3 4 2 2 1 1 3 4 2 3 2 Subhas Lallah 4 4 2 2 3 3 2 2 3 3 2 Steve Lucas 4 4 0 2 2 2 1 2 1 Board meetings convened at relatively short notice to deal with ad hoc commercial matters.
Representation at such meetings reflects the short notice period given.
Board members who were unable to attend received the briefing papers in advance and had the opportunity to provide their input prior to the meeting.
Any such comments received were duly noted at the relevant meeting.
2 Steve Lucas was appointed to the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 1 July 2012, Philip Aiken was appointed to the Nominations and Governance Committee on 1 July 2012, Subhas Lallah ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 1 July 2012 and Simon Murray ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2012.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 59 Annual Report and accounts 2013 The Directors receive appropriate briefing papers on performance review without the Chairman to appraise the substantive items, which are, in general, circulated at least a Chairmans performance.
The SID subsequently discussed the week before the relevant Board meeting to give the Directors outcome of the review with the Chairman.
The results of the adequate time to prepare for the meeting and to enable any performance evaluation report were presented and discussed at Director who is unable to attend the meeting to have an the February 2013 Board meeting.
The evaluation concluded opportunity to review the matters to be discussed and, if that the Board and its Committees continue to operate necessary, to provide comments to the Chairman in advance effectively and each Director is contributing effectively and of the meeting.
The Directors also receive monthly updates on demonstrates commitment to his role, however there were key matters relating to the business operations, project certain areas identified for improvement in relation to a greater updates, financial information, legal and corporate governance, focus by the Board on risk oversight and strategy and the need tax and investor relations.
The Directors also receive other ad for the Board to consider greater diversity in its number.
The hoc updates between Board meetings.
All Directors have the Board has taken steps during the year to address the areas right to have their concerns about the running of the Company, identified for improvement by receiving more detailed, regular or a proposed action which cannot be resolved, recorded in reports from the Audit Committee on the Groups key risks, in the minutes.
advance of the Boards annual review of internal control and risk management, and a greater focus on monitoring the strategic During the period, the Non-Executive Directors have met issues and the challenges facing the Indian energy market.
The without the Executive Director being present.
other performance evaluation outcomes and action plan items are set out in detail below: All new Directors receive a comprehensive induction upon Observations Action to be taken appointment to the Board.
Programmes of continuing professional development are arranged, as required, taking into Build on and improve oversight Provision of additional materials account the individual qualifications and experience of the of the main risks affecting the as necessary to the Board and Group increased discussion at Board Director.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring induction and meetings.
training programmes are provided and the Company Secretary is tasked with organising and reviewing such programmes each Improve the meeting process, Senior Management team to including the papers to the review the processes in place year.
Individual Directors, with the support of the Company Board for the preparation of Board Secretary, are also expected to take responsibility for identifying papers and Board agendas their own training needs and to ensure that they are adequately reviewed to ensure sufficient informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a Director.
time is given for Board All of the Directors have received a comprehensive briefing on discussion.
their duties and responsibilities as Directors of a UK, listed Improve the visibility of Increase the number of ad hoc company by the Company or its advisors.
Further briefings and the Board to the Groups site visits by Board members.
updates on key regulation, industry practices and other matters employees relating to the business were provided at Board meetings during Improve the longer term target The Board to agree longer term the period to ensure that the Directors were kept informed of setting and monitoring of the financial targets.
A number of the Directors attended site Groups financial performance visits during the period including Vadinar and Raniganj in India and strategy and Stanlow in the UK.
Improve performance Senior Management team to measurement indicators review the provision of financial All Directors have access to the advice and services of the and non-financial performance Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for indicators.
ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
Both appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are a matter for the The management of conflicts of interest Board as a whole.
All Directors also have access to other Directors are required to demonstrate unquestioned honesty members of the Senior Management team and to the Groups and integrity, a willingness to question, challenge and critique, professional advisors whom they can consult at the Companys and a desire to understand and commit to the highest expense should they consider this necessary in order to better standards of governance.
Each Director must ensure that no discharge their responsibilities.
decision or action is taken that places his interests in front of the interests of the business.
Decisions of the Board are made In compliance with the Code, all of the Directors offer collectively by means of open and constructive debate where themselves for annual re-election by shareholders at the each Board member is free to question or challenge the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Performance evaluation The Company operates a process whereby each Board In line with its stated intent in last years Annual Report, a member is required to disclose any actual or potential conflicts fullBoard evaluation facilitated by an independent external of interest and each of the Directors are aware of the need consultant, Armstrong Bonham Carter, was undertaken in late tonotify the Company of any potential conflicts of interest.
The process was carefully structured but Directors declarations of interests form a standard item on pragmatic, tailored to bring about a genuine debate of issues theagenda for each Board meeting.
Potential conflicts are that are relevant, aiming to assist in identifying any potential for considered and, if appropriate, approved and noted with improvement in the Companys processes.
It entailed the anyconflicted Director not voting on the matter.
Given their completion of detailed questionnaires on the performance of the involvement with Essar Group, both the Chairman and Ravi Board, its Committees and its Executive and Non-Executive Ruia on a number of occasions excluded themselves from Directors by each Director and was followed by one-to-one consideration of the business of the meeting.
A record of interviews between the external consultant and each Director conflicts or potential conflicts for each Director is maintained and the preparation by the external consultant of a composite and reviewed on a regular basis by the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors met as part of the Essar Energy plc 60 Governance Annual Report and accounts 2013 Governance framework continued Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman: Chairman: Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula Mr Subhas Lallah Members: Members: Mr Simon Murray Mr Philip Aiken Mr Steve Lucas Mr Steve Lucas from 1 July 2012 from 1 July 2012 Mr Subhas Lallah Mr Simon Murray until 1 July 2012 until 1 July 2012 Allocation of time % Allocation of time % 6 11 10 10 Taxation Incentive awards 23 Risk register Review of the compensation 10 framework and policy Going concern 13 Whistleblowing Remuneration reporting and regulation Financial results 6 Internal audit CEO and Senior Management External audit team remuneration and 10 35 performance Governance 22 Terms of Reference 44 Main responsibilities Main responsibilities Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine the to meet at least three times a year or more frequently as levels of remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer and the circumstances require.
During the period, the Audit Committee Chairman, and to recommend and monitor the level and has met four times and details of the attendance are set out in structure of remuneration for members of the Senior the table on page 58.
The Audit Committee reports on its Management team.
activities to the Board immediately following its meetings.
Under its terms of reference, the Remuneration Committee is The Audit Committee is also responsible for monitoring and required to meet at least twice a year or more frequently as reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
During the period, the Remuneration the year, given the departure of the Head of Internal Audit, Committee met three times and details of attendance are set Ernst & Young Pvt have been engaged to assist in the provision out in the table on page 58.
The Remuneration Committee of internal audit services and will continue to do so until a reports on its activities to the Board immediately following suitable replacement is appointed.
What the Audit Committee did during the year What the Remuneration Committee did during the year `` Reviewed the 2012 Annual Report and the Preliminary The main areas of focus of the Remuneration Committee Results before recommending them to the Board.
In doing during the period have been a full review of the remuneration so, the Committee reviewed and discussed these with policy and framework and benchmarking the remuneration of management and the external auditor, focusing particularly the Chief Executive Officer and other Senior Management on the going concern statement, the accounting treatment following the appointment of New Bridge Street as the of the sales tax judgment, the impairment of assets and the Committees external remuneration consultant.
reports on risk management, accounting policies and financial reporting issues and judgements identified by the The Remuneration report is set out on pages 65 to 71.
Chief Financial Officer and the auditors.
`` Reviewed the interim report and interim management statement including any significant audit issues.
`` Reviewed the 2012 internal audit report and the internal audit scope and approach for the following financial year.
`` Reviewed the Groups risk process and risk register.
`` Reviewed the audit planning, independence, performance and fees for Deloitte LLP for 2012.
`` Assessed any whistleblowing events.
`` Reviewed non-audit fee policy and fees for Deloitte LLP.
`` Reviewed the Audit Committee terms of reference.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 61 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Nominations and Governance Health, Safety and Environment Committee Committee Chairman: Chairman: Mr Simon Murray Mr Philip Aitken Members: Members: Mr Prashant Ruia Mr Naresh Nayyar Mr Philip Aiken Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula from 1 July 2012 Mr Subhas Lallah Allocation of time % Allocation of time % 26 9 9 9 Corporate governance matters Safety performance and Board and Committee monitoring composition Environmental controls 28 22 improvements and Succession planning and talent management water management 4 26 Board evaluation and diversity HSE reporting Other Risk management Sustainability policy and procedures 22 45 Main responsibilities Main responsibilities The role of the Nominations and Governance Committee is to The Health, Safety and Environment Committee assists identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates theBoard and the Senior Management team in obtaining to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise as well as putting assurance that appropriate systems are in place to deal with in place plans for succession for Directors and senior executives, the management of safety, health and environmental risks.
in particular with respect to the Chairman, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Under its terms of reference, the What the Health, Safety and Environment Committee Nominations and Governance Committee is also responsible for did during the year reviewing the structure, size and composition, including the skills, The Health, Safety and Environment Committee met three knowledge and experience, of the Board and making times during the 12 months ended 31 March 2013 and details recommendations to the Board about adjustments.
When of attendance are set out in the table on page 58.
The Health, making an appointment, the Committee is required by its terms Safety and Environment Committee meetings were held in of reference to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and India and in the UK and included two site visits, one to Vadinar experience on the Board and consider candidates on merit and and Salaya in India and one to the Stanlow refinery in the UK.
against objective criteria, taking care that appointees have The focus of those meetings has been on process safety enough time available to devote to the position.
management and the development of the Groups HSE culture within all operations and at all sites.
During the year the Committee met three times and details of members attendance are set out in the table on page 58.
For further information on HSE, please refer to the Sustainability Report on our website www.
What the Nominations and Governance Committee did during the year Terms of reference for each of the Committees are available The main focus of the Committee during the period has been onthe Companys website www.
management reorganisation, succession planning, review of Board structure, size, composition and diversity including gender diversity, the evaluation of the Boards effectiveness and the appraisal of the Chairman.
Essar Energy plc 62 Governance Annual Report and accounts 2013 Governance framework continued Internal control The Senior Management team and the Board review monthly The Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief management reports on the financial results and key operating Financial Officer consider that any controls and procedures, statistics, together with a brief written explanation of significant nomatter how well designed and operated, can provide only variances or operational matters.
The management reports are reasonable and not absolute assurance of achieving the presented by the respective accountable individuals in each desired control objectives.
The Groups management is business who provide further explanations as required.
required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing the Group in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that The individual businesses monitor the progress of the expansion are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood projects through regular project management review meetings of the risks concerned materialising, in identifying the to review progress and escalate issues to the Chief Executive Companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the Officer, with any major issues reported to the Board.
business of risks that do materialise and in ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the benefit.
Non-financial controls Emphasis is placed on the quality and abilities of the Groups The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of employees, with structured evaluation processes and access internal control and risk management and has delegated to the to a variety of online, internally and externally provided learning Audit Committee its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness and development tools.
This is provided through a shared of these controls.
The system of internal control is designed to service agreement with the Essar Group Human Resources manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business function that was agreed as part of the listing process and objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute enables the seamless transition of employee development.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
ThePresident of Human Resources in the Essar Group is invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings.
The Group maintains a register of key controls and procedures which is reviewed and updated annually.
As part of its risk-based The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous analysis of internal audit plan, the Group Internal Audit function continually the financial implications of the acquisition and key performance assesses the control environment to provide assurance on the figures.
A sensitivity analysis takes place of the key assumptions design and operating effectiveness of the controls.
made in the analysis with formal presentations to the Board.
Control structure The Board are provided with regular updates on any significant The Board sets the policy on internal control that is legal actions involving Group companies, which provides a implemented by management.
This is achieved through a background to the case and its current status within the clearly defined operating structure with lines of responsibility appropriate legal system.
Senior Management team The policy set by the Board is formally documented in the The Senior Management team monitors implementation of Group Governance and Administration Manual the Manual the Companys strategy, progress against agreed plans and which clearly defines the limits of delegated authority and operational matters to ensure the Boards strategic directions provides a framework for management to deal with areas of are implemented.
The Senior Management team comprises significant business risk.
the Chief Executives of the business groups, the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Investor Relations and The Manual confirms a code of conduct that applies to Communications.
allareas of the business and covers a requirement for all employees to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in Monitoring and review activities the territories in which the Group operates.
At operational level A number of processes are in place for monitoring the system of this code of conduct is covered through the detailed human internal control and reporting any significant control failings or resource policies that are available on the Groups intranet.
weaknesses together with details of corrective action, and the Directors of each business division are required to certify on an The Board also approves individual policies covering areas that annual basis the operation of their control systems and to are identified as key for the Board to monitor.
For example, a highlight any weaknesses.
policy on the process for entering into and reporting related party transactions has been approved and circulated The internal audit function reports directly to the Audit throughout the Group with individual briefings to the key Committee and has prepared a risk-based audit plan agreed individuals responsible for managing the process.
with the Audit Committee and undertaken a number of audits based on that plan.
The Group has also formed a management These policies and procedures are reviewed and, where audit committee within each significant business area of necessary, updated by the Board on a regular basis.
operation that meets on a quarterly basis.
These meetings, chaired by the Chief Executive Officers of the respective Financial controls businesses, review the results of internal audit reports and follow The Groups operating procedures include appropriate up actions to assess the overall robustness of the control systems for reporting information to the Directors.
At these meetings functional departmental heads procedures are business dependent but all significant are also invited to provide clarifications and explanations on the operational businesses use SAP general ledger systems audit findings and action plans.
The meetings also provide an withautomated controls and reconciliation processes.
opportunity for the internal audit team to report on their activities directly to management to ensure actions are taking place and Budgets are prepared by the management of the respective highlight any remedial actions necessary.
Additionally, the Head business groups and subject to review by the Chief Executive of Internal Audit also meets separately with the Chairman of the Officer and then the Directors.
The approved budgets are then Audit Committee at least once every quarter either in person or used as the basis for controlling expenditure, with approval levels through a teleconference.
varying based on whether an item is within or exceeds budget.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 63 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Internal audit is an independent review and support function To create enterprise-wide awareness and improve whose primary role is to provide an objective evaluation of understanding of the anti-corruption policies and procedures operations, information and control systems that the Company across all levels of employment, the Group utilises various has put in place, primarily to the Audit Committee but also as a channels of information and communication technologies, service to management.
It provides analysis, recommendations, including an online competency evaluation tool on awareness, counsel, and information concerning the activities examined and face-to-face training sessions such as leadership programmes, provides assurance as well as guidance on the development of train the trainers programmes, awareness programmes, effective and efficient controls with respect to process integrity, e-news alerts and road-shows.
In addition, the Group ensures accuracy in reporting and compliance with policies and that all third parties are engaged following proper due diligence regulation.
As part of this service to management the Head and that all contracts signed by the Group incorporate ofInternal Audit meets quarterly with the management of each appropriate anti-corruption clauses, according to the relevant ofthe respective business groups, as well as the Senior risk, in order to safeguard the interests of the Group.
Management of the Company, as part of a management audit committee to appraise Senior Management about important Compliance reporting systems have also been implemented to audit issues and the steps taken by management to address regularly monitor and track compliance with these policies and control gaps.
procedures at all levels of the Group.
The Group undertakes continuous review of its policies and procedures and continues Within each business area, detailed risk registers are maintained to improve these to ensure that they are adequate and meet which provide information regarding the various risks within the the requirements of applicable anti-corruption and bribery laws.
Within each business area, there is a designated Risk The Companys internal audit programme also monitors Officer who works closely with the Head of Internal Audit to implementation of the policies, procedures and systems in compile the half yearly and annual risk update report that is relation to anti-corruption and bribery to ensure that strategies presented and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Material are effectively implemented across the Group.
changes are reported to the Audit Committee.
Significant risks and their mitigating actions along with any remedial actions are Review of effectiveness monitored by the Senior Management and subsequently In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board.
controls the Board has, through the Management Audit Committees at each of the main operating subsidiaries and the Reports from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, on certain Audit Committee, taken account of the matters summarised internal controls and relevant financial reporting matters, are above.
Where significant failings or weaknesses are identified, presented to the Audit Committee and management.
the Audit Committee ensures that these are appropriately dealt with by executive management, who report back to the Audit A whistleblowing hotline provides arrangements by which staff Committee as appropriate.
The Board considers that these may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties matters provide the key building blocks for an assessment of in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Staff may raise the control environment and that the measures that have been concerns in either English or the local language using a hotline implemented are appropriate to the Group.
The Board is phone number or by sending an email or letter to addresses committed to building on these measures through the especially created for the purpose.
Regular updates on the execution of the internal audit programme and the continued whistleblowing hotline are provided to the Audit Committee by review by the various Management Audit Committees and respective Management Audit Committees.
whistleblowing policy is available on the Companys website.
Anti-corruption and bribery Essar Energy is committed to ensuring that its strategy, business and operations are built around a culture of ethical business practice at all levels within the Company.
Since the UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force, the Company has carried out comprehensive risk assessment and developed and strengthened its policies and systems procedures relating to anti-corruption and bribery in line with the UK Bribery Act.
Ouranti-corruption policy is fundamental to this.
The Group has implemented extensive measures to ensure that the Group, all its subsidiaries, branches, divisions and controlled affiliated companies and all of its employees comply with the Companys anti-corruption policies and procedures.
All employees of the Company, including Senior Management, are subject to ongoing communications and training to build awareness of its anti-corruption and bribery policies and procedures.
The policies and procedures contain requirements in relation to i the conduct of employees: ii arrangements pertaining to political contributions, charitable donations, gifts, hospitality, entertainment and sponsored travel and retaining third parties: and iii prohibition of facilitation payments.
Essar Energy plc 64 Governance Annual Report and accounts 2013 Governance framework continued Relations with investors Auditors The Company is committed to the promotion of investor The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the confidence by ensuring that trade in its securities takes place external auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
Auditor objectivity inan efficient, competitive and informed market.
The Board is andindependence is safeguarded through a variety of keenly aware of the importance of forthright communication mechanisms.
To ensure the auditors independence, the askey to building shareholder value and of the importance of Committee annually reviews the Companys relationship with developing a dialogue with shareholders to ensure that the Deloitte.
The Company has various policies in place which aim Board keeps abreast of and understands the views and to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external opinions of shareholders.
This includes policies in respect of the potential employment of former auditors, the types of non-audit services It has achieved this during the period in a number of ways which the external auditors may and may not provide to the including: Group, and the approval process in respect of permitted `` ensuring that all material information on the Company is non-audit services.
In addition to the approval process for broadly disseminated to investors, analysts and the media specific non-audit services, the Audit Committee monitors the and that this information is available on the Companys total level of non-audit services to ensure that neither the website at www.
Distribution of objectivity nor independence of the auditor is at risk.
Following information is via the UKs regulatory news service, via email the review in 2012, the Company concluded that it continues to the Companys extensive contact database and through tohave an objective and professional relationship with Deloitte an email alert system on the Companys website: and that there are sufficient controls and processes in place `` the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and toensure the required level of independence.
In addition, the Director of Investor Relations and Communications regularly auditor is required to review and confirm its independence meet institutional shareholders, potential investors and tothe Committee on a regular basis.
When considering the analysts either individually or as part of Group meetings: reappointment of the Companys external auditor before `` holding presentations or conference calls with investors and making a recommendation to the Board to be put to analysts at the time of announcements of quarterly Interim shareholders, the Committee reviews and monitors the Management Statements and financial results or other external auditors independence and objectivity and the major news.
Historical web-casts of half and full year effectiveness of the audit process.
Accordingly, the financial results announcements are held on the Companys Committeerecommends the reappointment of Deloitte at website for a minimum of 12 months: theforthcoming AGM.
`` regularly providing investor relations update reports describing investor and analyst opinions to the Board: Non-audit fee work conducted by Deloitte over the past `` arranging site visits for investors and analysts in order to yearfor assurance services 27% and taxation services 1% provide more detailed knowledge of the Essar Energy amounted to 28% of the total fees including audit fees.
During the 12 months ended 31 March 2013, one Committee considers that the level and nature of non-audit site visit was organised in India for investors and analysts work does not compromise the independence of the which included presentations by the business teams, copies externalauditors.
of which are available on the Companys website: and `` ensuring that relevant and up-to-date information on the Fees payable to Deloitte in respect of audit and assurance Company and its operations, together with press releases services of US$3,023,000 2012: US$4,301,000 in respect of and financial results and Annual Reports are available on the the financial year 2012 were approved by the Audit Committee.
The Annual General Meeting The Company has taken advantage of the provisions of the The Companys AGM will be held on Friday 30 August 2013.
Companies Act 2006 which allow the Companys website to Separate resolutions on substantially separate issues will be be used as the primary means of communicating with those put to the AGM and proxy forms will allow shareholders to vote shareholders who have not specifically requested hard copy for, against or withhold a vote on a resolution.
The Shareholder information section of this proxy votes counted will be announced at the meeting and on Report on page 144 contains further details on electronic the Companys website after the meeting.
The Chairman of the communications with shareholders.
Board and the Chairmen of each of the Board Committees will be available to answer questions put forward to them by The Board regards the Companys AGM as a valuable shareholders of the Company.
The 2013 Annual Report and opportunity to communicate with the Companys investors and the Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least to address shareholders questions.
In addition, the Directors 20working days prior to the date of the meeting.
generally make themselves available before and after the formal meeting to talk informally to shareholders.
Simon Murray Chairman of the Nominations and The Companys Director of Investor Relations and GovernanceCommittee Communications, Mark Lidiard, is based in the London office on behalf of the Board and is contactable on 44 0 20 7408 7660 or ir@essar.
