Essar Energy plc 54 Governance Annual Report and accounts 2013 Senior Management team Mr Lalit Kumar Gupta Mr Volker Schultz Mr Iftikhar Nasir Mr KVB Reddy Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Executive Director of Chief Executive Officer ofEssar Oil UK Exploration and Production EssarPower ofEssar Oil Mr Lalit Kumar Gupta Mr Volker Schultz joined Mr Iftikhar Nasir is Chief Mr KVB Reddy is the hasbeen head of the Essar Energy in October 2011 Executive Officer of Essar Executive Director of Essar downstream oil refining as Chief Executive Officer of Energys Exploration and Power.
He is responsible for business of Essar in India Essar Oil UK, which includes Production.
He joined Essar formulating and directing the since December 2011. the Stanlow Refinery, the Energy Holdings Ltd in July overall business strategy of MrGupta has over three UKs second largest refinery.
2008 as Executive Director the Power business group decades of diverse Mr Schultz joined Essar ofStrategy and Business and project execution and leadership experience in core Energy from BP, where he Development and has been with the Essar sectors across Energy Oil worked for 23 years in spearheaded completion of Group since 1995. and Gas, Utilities Power and various senior commercial, Essars acquisitions of the Steel.
Prior to joining Essar strategy and manufacturing Mombasa refinery in Kenya Mr Reddy has more than Group, Mr Gupta held Board positions including Global and the Stanlow refinery in 29years of experience in level positions as CEO and Head of Refining and the UK.
thepower industry and has Joint Managing Director of Marketing Strategy and previously worked for the JSW Energy Ltd and Director Portfolio and beforehand Mr Nasir has over 25 years National Thermal Power Finance with MRPL ONGC Business Unit Leader ofindustry experience.
He Corporation where he gained subsidiary.
He has diverse Managing Director of the joined Essar from BP, where in-depth experience in the experience across all BPLingen refinery.
He has he was the Regional Vice areas of project planning, strategic business functions worked in the UK, Germany, President of Group Business materials, commercial and including international oil the USA and South Africa.
During his erection and commissioning.
trading, finance, taxation, tenure with BP he led a range During this time, he set up insurance, legal and Mr Schultz holds a Master of business activities across three gas-based combined commercial function.
ofScience in Management the energy value chain from cycle power projects at Anta, from the Stanford University Exploration and Production Auraiya and Kawas.
Mr Gupta is a rank holder Graduate School of Business to Petrochemicals.
Previous chartered accountant and and a Bachelor of Science in roles included Commercial Mr Reddy is a graduate in also a company secretary Chemical Engineering from Director for the Exploration mechanical engineering from and holds a Bachelors the University of KwaZuluand Production segment NIT Bhopal.
degree in Commerce Gold Natal in South Africa.
across the Middle East and Medallist, from Jiwaji for the Africa, Middle East, University, Gwalior.
Russia and Caspian Region at Group level.
Mr Nasir is a graduate fromthe Royal Society of Chemistry, a Post-Graduate member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing and hascompleted the Stanford Senior Executive Program.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 55 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Mr Deepak Maheshwari Mr P Sampath Mr Mark Lidiard Ms Frances McCaw Chief Financial Officer President of Business Director of Investor Company Secretary Optimisation and Relations and Improvement Communications Mr Deepak Maheshwari is Appointed to the new Mr Mark Lidiard is the Ms Frances McCaw is the theChief Financial Officer of roleofPresident of Director of Investor Relations Company Secretary for Essar Energy and joined the BusinessOptimisation and Communications for EssarEnergy and joined the Company in April 2013.
Mr andImprovement of Essar Essar Energy and joined the Company in December 2012.
Maheshwari most recently Energyfrom 1 April 2013, Company in April 2010.
In She was previously the served as the Chief Financial MrSampath was formerly the addition to investor relations deputy to the Legal and Officer of Reliance Power Chief Financial Officer of Essar and communications, Commercial Director and Limited and has over 19 years Energy from September 2010.
MrLidiard also took over Company Secretary at The of experience in project and Mr Sampath joined the Essar responsibility for sustainability Weir Group plc from 2001 to corporate finance, investment Group in August 2008 and from January 2013.
Mr 2012, Company Secretary at banking and treasury was previously the Finance Lidiard was previously the The Scottish Legal Life management.
He joined Director of Essar Oil from Group Communications Assurance Society Limited theReliance Group in 2004 August 2008.
He has over Director at Lloyds TSB from from 1996 to 2001, and Head and played a critical role in 30years of experience in 2008 to 2009, Vice President of the Company Secretarial leadingthe capital markets various fields including of Investor Relations and Unit at Maclay Murray & and financing and risk globalcorporate finance Communications at BHP Spens Solicitors from 1988 management requirements andtreasury, mergers and Billiton from 2002 to 2007, to1996.
Prior to this, Mr acquisitions, corporate and Head of Investor Maheshwari was Director business planning, investor Relations at Powergen plc Ms McCaw is a Corporate Finance with ANZ relations, global HR from 2000 to 2002.
FellowoftheInstitute of Investment Bank in London strategyand financial and CharteredSecretaries and and ICICI Securities in India.
From 1997 to 2000, Administrators and has joint MrLidiard was the Assistant honours degree in Economics Mr Maheshwari has a Prior to joining Essar, Group Treasurer and Head of and Law from Strathclyde Bachelors degree in Electrical MrSampath held a number of Project Finance at Powergen University.
Engineering from the Sardar senior finance roles including which included responsibility Patel College of Engineering, Group Chief Financial Officer for power project financings Mumbai and MBAs from for RPG Enterprises Limited in India.
XLRI, Jamshedpur and the and Managing Director of London Business School.
He has a postgraduate certificate in business Mr Sampath has a first management from classBachelor of Commerce ThamesValley University degree from Madras anda degree in Physics University, is a Fellow withGeology from Member of both the Southampton University.
Instituteof Cost and Works Accountants of India and theInstitute of Company Secretaries of India.
