Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 35 Corporate Governance The Financial Reporting Councils 2012 UK have access to the advice and services of the Structured Retail Products and TelCap : BR Corporate Governance Code the Code is company secretary.
In accordance with best Jones information technology : JG Orchard part of the Listing Rules the Rules of the corporate governance practice under the 2012 capital markets group : AB Shale Asiamoney : Financial Conduct Authority.
The paragraphs UK Corporate Governance Code all directors and DRJ Williams Euromoney.
The discussions below and in the Directors Remuneration Report will submit themselves for annual re-election.
of the committee are summarised by the group on pages 49 to 73 set out how the company has Newly appointed directors are submitted for chairman and reported to each board meeting, applied the principles laid down by the Code.
election at the first available opportunity after together with recommendations on matters The company continues substantially to comply their appointment.
with the Code, save for the exceptions disclosed Nominations committee in the Directors Compliance Statement on The board meets every two months and there The nominations committee is responsible for page 42. is frequent contact between meetings.
Board proposing candidates for appointment to the meetings take place in London, New York, Directors board having regard to the balance of skills, Montreal and Hong Kong, and occasionally in The board and its role structure and composition of the board and other locations where the group has operations.
Details of directors who served during the year ensuring the appointees have sufficient time The board has delegated certain aspects of the are set out on page 58.
PM Fallon, the chairman, available to devote to the role.
The chairman of groups affairs to standing committees, each who was due to retire at the AGM in January the committee, PM Fallon, died on October 14 of which operates within defined terms of 2013, died on October 14 2012.
The company 2012 and was succeeded by PR Ensor, previously reference.
Details of these are set out below.
announced that, effective from October 15 a member of the nominations committee.
On However, to ensure its overall control of the 2012, its previously announced succession December 12 2012 CHC Fordham was appointed groups affairs, the board has reserved certain plans would be accelerated and that PR Ensor a member of the committee.
Following these matters to itself for decision.
Board meetings would succeed PM Fallon as chairman and CHC changes the committee comprises PR Ensor are held to set and monitor strategy, identify, Fordham would succeed PR Ensor as managing chairman of the committee, CHC Fordham evaluate and manage material risks, to review director.
In addition, on December 12 2012 and four non-executive directors, being Sir trading performance, ensure adequate funding, ART Ballingal and TP Hillgarth were appointed Patrick Sergeant, The Viscount Rothermere, examine major acquisition possibilities and as non-executive directors and on January 31 MWH Morgan and JC Botts.
The committees approve reports to shareholders.
Procedures 2013 JC Gonzalez retired as non-executive terms of reference are available on the are established to ensure that appropriate director.
Following these changes the board companys website at: www.
information is communicated to the board in a comprised the chairman, managing director, com reports Nominationcommittee.
timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties.
and six other executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
Four of the seven nonCommittees The committee meets when required and executive directors are not independent, one is Executive committee this year met four times: in October 2012 the founder and ex-chairman of the company, The executive committee meets each month to recommend the succession of PM Fallon two are directors of Daily Mail and General Trust to discuss strategy, results and forecasts, risks, by PR Ensor as chairman of the nominations plc DMGT, an intermediate parent company, possible acquisitions and divestitures, costs, committee: in November 2012 to recommend to and one has served on the board for more than staff numbers, recruitment and training and the board the appointment of ART Ballingal and the recommended term of nine years under other management issues.
It also discusses TP Hillgarth as non-executives to the board, CHC the Code.
corporate and social responsibility including Fordham to the nominations committee and the groups various charity initiatives.
It is not C Benn as company secretary: in December 2012 There are clear divisions of responsibility within empowered to make decisions except those to recommend to the board the re-election of the board such that no one individual has that can be made by the members in their directors retiring by rotation: and in March 2013 unfettered powers of decision.
The board, individual capacities as executives with powers to recommend to the board the appointment of although larger than average, does not consider approved by the board of the company.
It is TP Hillgarth to the audit committee.
itself to be unwieldy and believes it is beneficial chaired by the group chairman and comprises all to have representatives from key areas of executive directors plus the following divisional The groups gender diversity information is set the business at board meetings.
There is a directors: RP Daswani Metal Bulletin : R Davies out in the Corporate Governance report on procedure for all directors in the furtherance of specialist publication group : RCM Garnett page 38. their duties to take independent professional Euromoney conferences : L Gibson Euromoney advice, at the companys expense.
They also seminars and Metal Bulletin events : RG Irving 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Corporate Governance Governance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 36 36 www.
com Corporate Governance continued The Viscount Rothermere has a significant Remuneration committee Non-executive directors shareholding in the company through his The remuneration committee meets twice a year The non-executive directors bring both beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this and additionally as required.
It is responsible for independent views and the views of the he is not considered independent.
determining the contract terms, remuneration companys major shareholder to the board.
and other benefits for executive directors, On December 12 2012, ART Ballingal The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan including performance-related incentives.
This independent and TP Hillgarth independent are also executive directors of DMGT, an committee also recommends and monitors the were appointed non-executive directors of the intermediate parent company.
However, the level of remuneration for senior management company.
JC Gonzalez independent retired as company is run as a separate, distinct and and overall, including group-wide share a non-executive director at the Annual General decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and these option schemes.
The composition of the Meeting on January 31 2013.
The other nondirectors have no involvement in the day-tocommittee, details of directors remuneration executive directors who served during the year day management of the company.
They bring and interests in share options and information were The Viscount Rothermere, Sir Patrick valuable experience and advice to the company on directors service contracts are set out in Sergeant, JC Botts, MWH Morgan, and DP and the board does not believe these nonthe Directors Remuneration Report on pages Pritchard independent.
Their biographies can executive directors are able to exert undue 49 to 73.
The committees terms of reference be found on page 34 of the accounts.
influence on decisions taken by the board, are available on the companys website at: nor does it consider their independence to be http: www.
com reports At least once a year the companys chairman impaired by their positions with DMGT.
meets the non-executive directors without the their relationship with DMGT means they do not executive directors being present.
The nonAudit committee meet the Codes definition of independence.
executive directors meet without the companys Details of the members and role of the audit chairman present at least annually to appraise committee are set out on page 39.
The the chairmans performance and on other committees terms of reference are available occasions as necessary.
on the companys website at: http: www.
The board considers DP Pritchard, ART Ballingal pdf.
and TP Hillgarth to be independent nonexecutive directors.
JC Botts has been on the Tax and treasury committee board for more than the recommended term The groups tax and treasury committee of nine years under the Code and the board normally meets twice a year and is responsible believes that his length of service enhances his for recommending policy to the board.
The role as a non-executive director.
However, due committee members are the chairman, to his length of service, JC Botts does not meet managing director and finance director of the the Codes definition of independence.
company, and the finance director and the deputy finance director of DMGT.
The chairman Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board of the audit committee is also invited to attend in various roles since founding the company tax and treasury meetings.
The groups treasury in 1969 and has been a non-executive director policies are directed to giving greater certainty of since 1992.
As founder and president of future costs and revenues and ensuring that the the company, the board believes his insight group has adequate liquidity for working capital and external contacts remain invaluable.
and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
However, due to his length of service, Sir Patrick Sergeant does not meet the Codes Details of the tax and treasury policies are set definition of independence.
out in the Strategic Report on page 21.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 37 Board and committee meetings Board and committee meetings are arranged well in advance of the meeting date and papers covering the points to be discussed are distributed to its members in advance of the meetings.
The following table sets out the number of board and committee meetings attended by the directors during the year to September 30 2013: Tax & Executive Remuneration Nominations Audit treasury Board committee committee committee committee committee Number of meetings held during year 6 10 3 4 4 2 Executive directors PM Fallon died October 14 2012 PR Ensor - chairman 6 10 3 2 CHC Fordham - managing director 6 10 2 NF Osborn 6 10 DC Cohen 6 10 CR Jones - finance director 6 10 2 fide Alfano 6 10 JL Wilkinson 6 10 B AL-Rehany 6 8 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 6 4 Sir Patrick Sergeant 4 4 JC Botts 5 3 4 4 JC Gonzalez retired January 31 2013 1 1 MWH Morgan 6 3 4 DP Pritchard 6 3 4 2 ART Ballingal appointed December 12 2012 3 TP Hillgarth appointed December 12 2012 4 3 Board and committee effectiveness The Code requires an externally facilitated evaluation of the board every three years.
The external evaluation was due this year, but the board decided to delay it until 2014 following the changes to the board earlier in the year, including the appointment of a new chairman.
However, as in previous years, in 2013 the board, through its chairman, assessed its performance and that of its committees.
The chairman surveyed each board member and evaluated the strengths and weaknesses of the board and its members.
In addition, each of the main committees completed a questionnaire encompassing key areas within their mandates.
The chairman concluded that the board and its committees had been effective throughout the year.
As part of the performance evaluation the board are asked to assess the chairmans performance.
The results of the assessment are provided to the non-executive directors for review in the absence of the group having a senior independent director.
It was concluded that the chairman had been effective throughout the year.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Corporate Governance Governance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 38 38 www.
com Corporate Governance continued the board has overall responsibility for the Diversity Internal control and risk management group and there is a formal schedule of The board believes that diversity is important for The board as a whole is responsible for the matters specifically reserved for decision by board effectiveness.
However, diversity is much oversight of risk, the groups system of internal the board: more than an issue of gender, and includes a control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such each executive director has been given diversity of skills, experience, nationality and a system is designed to manage rather than responsibility for specific aspects of the background.
Diversity will continue to be a eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business groups affairs: key consideration when contemplating the objectives, and can only provide reasonable the board reviews and assesses the groups composition and refreshing of the board and and not absolute assurance against material principal risks and uncertainties at least indeed senior and wider management.
annually: board recognises that while the overall balance In accordance with principle C. 2 and C. 2.1 of the the board seeks assurance that effective of gender is good within the group, with 49% Code and section 34 of the Revised Guidance control is being maintained through of employees being female as at September 30 for Directors on Internal Control formally called regular reports from business group 2013, there is still more work to be done to fulfil Turnbull guidance, the board has implemented management, the audit committee and overall diversity ambitions.
a continuing process for identifying, evaluating various independent monitoring functions: and managing the material risks faced by the and Executive Permanent Board committee employees group.
the board approves the annual forecast after performing a review of key risk The board has reviewed the effectiveness of factors.
Performance is monitored regularly Male 13 14 1,099 the groups system of internal control and risk by way of variances and key performance Female 2 3 1,043 management systems and has taken account of indicators to enable relevant action to Total 15 17 2,142 material developments which have taken place be taken and forecasts are updated each % Female 13% 18% 49% since September 30 2012.
It has considered the quarter.
The board considers longer-term Communication with shareholders major business and financial risks, the control financial projections as part of its regular The companys chairman, together with the environment and the results of internal audit.
discussions on the groups strategy and board, encourages regular dialogue with Steps have been taken to embed internal funding requirements.
Meetings with shareholders are control and risk management further into held, both in the UK and in the US, to discuss the operations of the group and to deal with Executive management of risk is provided by annual and interim results and highlight areas of improvement which have come to a risk committee comprising the chairman, significant acquisitions or disposals, or at the managements and the boards attention.
managing director and finance director, request of institutional shareholders.
Private which reports to the board each month and is shareholders are encouraged to participate Key procedures which the directors have responsible for managing and addressing risk in the Annual General Meeting.
In line with established with a view to providing effective matters as they arise.
In addition, the group best practice all shareholders have at least 20 internal control, and which have been in place employs an information security manager, working days notice of the Annual General throughout the year and up to the date of this a data protection manager and a risk and Meeting at which the executive directors, nonreport, are as follows: compliance officer as well as having the ability executive directors and committee chairs are to draw on the resources of DMGTs risk and available for questioning.
The board of directors assurance should it be considered necessary.
the board normally meets six times a year to The companys chairman and finance director During the year and up to the approval of this consider group strategy, risk management, report to fellow board members matters annual report and accounts the board has not financial performance, acquisitions, raised by shareholders and analysts to ensure identified nor been advised of any failings or business development and management members of the board, in particular the weaknesses in the groups system of internal issues: non-executive directors, develop an control which it has determined to be significant.
understanding of the investors and potential Therefore a confirmation of necessary actions investors view of the company.
has not been considered appropriate.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 39 and the departments and businesses reviewed monitoring and reviewing the resources Investment appraisal previously and the findings from these reviews.
and effectiveness of internal audit: The managing director, finance director and This approach ensures that the internal audit reviewing the internal audit programme business group managers consider proposals focus is placed on the higher risk areas of the and receiving periodic reports on its for acquisitions and new business investments.
group, while ensuring an appropriate breadth findings: Proposals beyond specified limits are put to of coverage.
DMGTs internal audit reports reviewing the whistle-blowing the board for approval and are subject to due its findings to management and to the audit arrangements available to staff: diligence by the groups finance team and, committee.
reviewing the groups policy on the if necessary, independent advisors.
Capital employment of former audit staff: and expenditure is regulated by strict authorisation Accountability and audit reviewing the groups policy on non-audit controls.
For capital expenditure above specified Audit committee fees.
levels, detailed written proposals must be Committee composition, skill and submitted to the board and reviews are carried experience The audit committees terms of reference are out to monitor progress against business plan.
The audit committee comprises DP Pritchard available at www.
com reports chairman, independent, JC Botts, SW Daintith, Accounting and computer systems Auditcommittee.
the finance director of DMGT and from March controls and procedures 12 2013 TP Hillgarth independent.
JC Gonzalez Accounting controls and procedures are Content of the annual report independent retired from the committee on regularly reviewed and communicated and accounts fair, balanced and January 31 2013.
Three of the four members understandable throughout the group.
Particular attention is are non-executive directors.
All members of the One of the key governance requirements paid to authorisation levels and segregation of committee have a high level of financial literacy: of a groups financial statements is for the duties.
The groups tax, financing and foreign SW Daintith and TP Hillgarth are chartered report and accounts to be fair, balanced and exchange positions are overseen by the tax and accountants and members of the ICAEW, and understandable.
The co-ordination and review treasury committee, which meets at least twice DP Pritchard has considerable audit committee of the group-wide input to the annual report a year.
Controls and procedures over the security experience.
and accounts is a sizeable exercise performed of data and disaster recovery are periodically within an exacting time-frame which runs reviewed and are subject to internal audit.
Responsibilities alongside the formal audit process undertaken The committee meets at least three times each Internal audit by the external auditors.
financial year and is responsible for: The groups internal audit function is managed monitoring the integrity of the interim by DMGTs internal audit department, working Arriving at a position where initially the audit report, the annual report and accounts closely with the companys finance director.
committee, and then the board, are satisfied and other related formal statements, Internal audit draws on the services of the with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of reviewing accounting policies applied and groups central finance teams to assist in the report and accounts is underpinned by the judgements applied: completing the audit assignments.
Internal audit following: reviewing the content of the annual report aims to provide an independent assessment as attendance by the committee members and and accounts and advising the board to whether effective systems and controls are in the board in the summer at a comprehensive on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, place and being operated to manage significant training session on corporate governance balanced and understandable and provides operating and financial risks.
It also aims to matters, and specifically the new reporting the information necessary for shareholders support management by providing cost effective and legislative requirements: to assess the companys performance, recommendations to mitigate risk and control early preparation by management business model and strategy: weaknesses identified during the audit process, and review by the committee of key considering the effectiveness of the groups as well as provide insight into where cost components of the annual report, internal financial control systems: efficiencies and monetary gains might be made particularly those reflecting new disclosure considering the appointment or by improving the operations of the business.
and reporting requirements: reappointment of the external auditors Businesses and central departments are selected comprehensive reviews undertaken by and to review their remuneration, both for for an internal audit visit on a risk-focused basis, management, a sub-committee of the audit and non-audit: taking account of the risks identified as part directors and the auditors to ensure monitoring and reviewing the external of the risk management process: the risk and consistency and overall balance: auditors independence and objectivity and materiality of each of the groups businesses: the effectiveness of the audit process: the scope and findings of external audit work: 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Corporate Governance Governance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 40 40 www.
com Corporate Governance continued knowledge sharing by management of on the financial statements.
The committee the carrying value of goodwill and intangible key risks and matters likely to affect the was satisfied these were appropriate, assets and any potential impairments.
The annual report through attendance by the consistent and complete: committee discussed the appropriateness chairman of the audit committee at the at the request of the board, the committee of the life of the intangible assets and the annual internal audit planning meeting considered whether the 2013 Annual methodology around and inputs into the and tax and treasury committee meetings Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and calculation supporting the carrying value held during the year as well as through understandable and whether it provided of the amounts concerned.
It was satisfied the audit committee chairmans regular the necessary information for shareholders that no provisions or impairments were meetings with management and internal to assess the groups performance, required and that the disclosures were audit: business model and strategy.
Following the reasonable and appropriate: a twice yearly review by the audit committee committees review of the accounts and capitalisation of internally generated of key assumptions and judgements after applying their knowledge of matters intangible assets in relation to the made by management in preparation of raised during the year the committee was implementation of the global management the annual and interim reports as well as satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual content system.
The committee discussed considering significant issues arising during Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and with management and the auditor the the year.
understandable: type of expenditure capitalised to help assessing significant provisions and ensure this was in accordance with the Financial reporting and significant accruals including tax provisions.
The groups accounting policy in this area.
The financial judgements committee discussed with management committee had previously discussed and The committee, with input from the external and the auditor how the provision levels approved the groups accounting policy, auditor, assessed whether suitable accounting were determined and calculated.
They also including the amortisation period, related policies had been adopted, whether discussed matters not provided against to this type of spend.
The committee management had made appropriate estimates to establish if this was appropriate.
The was satisfied the capitalisation of the and judgements and whether disclosures were chairman of the audit committee also internally generated intangible assets were balanced and fair.
For the year ended September attends the tax and treasury committee reasonable and appropriate: 30 2013 the committee reviewed the following which provides valuable insight into the revenue recognition in relation to the main issues: tax matters and related provisions.
The cut-off for publications and events, the accounting for acquisitions of committee was satisfied that these were deferral of subscription revenues and TTI Vanguard, Insider Publishing, adequate and appropriate: the treatment of voting and commission Quantitative Techniques and CIE, and the assessing the recognition and share agreement revenues.
The committee valuation of acquisition commitments measurement of deferred tax assets and discussed with management the internal and deferred consideration including that liabilities.
The committee discussed the controls in place in this area and what work related to previous acquisitions including deferred tax balances with the auditor the auditor had completed on revenue NDR.
The committee discussed the and management to establish how they recognition.
appropriateness of the life of the intangible were determined and calculated.
As the appropriateness of the disclosures for asset, and the methodology around and stated above, the chairman of the audit going concern at year end by review of inputs into the calculation of the amounts committee attends the tax and treasury the available facilities, facility headroom, concerned.
The committee was satisfied committee which also helps establish the the banking covenants and the sensitivity these were reasonable and appropriate: appropriateness of the recognition of the analyses on these items.
The committee presentation of the financial statements deferred tax balances.
The committee was was satisfied that the going concern basis and in particular, the presentation of satisfied that these were appropriately of preparation continues to be appropriate the adjusted performance and the recognised: in the context of the groups funding and adjusting items.
The committee reviewed liquidity position.
the financial statements and discussed with management and the auditor the appropriateness of the adjusted items including consideration of their consistency and the avoidance of any misleading effect 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 41 appointment of Deloitte followed a formal by finance people across the group but External auditors tender process undertaken in 1998 and, rather independent from the business being audited.
As noted the committee has primary than adopting a policy on tendering frequency, The peer reviews audit the operation of key responsibility for making a recommendation to the annual review of the effectiveness of the internal controls which have been confirmed by the board on the appointment, reappointment external audit is supplemented by a periodic the businesses as in place through a six-monthly and removal of external auditors, together with comprehensive reassessment by the committee.
Internal audit review approval of their remuneration.
As part of its The last such reassessment was performed the findings of this supplemental work and role in ensuring effectiveness, the committee in financial year 2009, when having received present a summary to the committee at each has completed a formal review which focused assurances on the continued quality of the audit committee meeting.
This is challenged by on the effectiveness, independence and audit, the committee determined to recommend the committee and discussed as necessary.
objectivity of the external audit and included the reappointment of the incumbent firm.
As the following areas: Resources available to internal audit the appointment of the auditor is for one year the audit partners and audit teams with and its effectiveness only, being subject to annual approval at the particular focus on the lead audit partner The committee monitors the level and skill companys Annual General Meeting, there is no including an annual assessment of the base available to the group from internal audit.
contractual commitment to the current audit qualifications, expertise and resources of Although internal audit areas are planned a firm and, as such, the committee may undertake the external auditors: year ahead, the amount of time available to the an audit tender at any time at its discretion.
planning and scope of the audit and group from internal audit is not fixed.
Internal identification of areas of audit risk: audit is able to scale up resource as required The committee has reviewed the changes to the the execution of the audit including the and draws on finance people across the wider Code including the new provision for FTSE 350 robustness and perceptiveness of the DMGT group as well as regularly supplementing companies to put the external audit contract auditors in handling their key accounting its team through the use of specialists.
out to tender at least every ten years.
Having and audit judgements: considered the FRCs guidance on aligning the role of management in an effective The committee are able to monitor the the timing of such tenders with the audit audit process: effectiveness of internal audit through their engagement rotation cycle, it is the committees communications by the auditor, including involvement in its focus, planning, process intention to initiate an audit tender process the quality of their reporting and the and outcome.
The committee approve the in 2015.
This policy will be kept under review availability of the lead audit partner to internal audit plan and any revision to this and the committee will use its regular review of meet senior management and to discuss during the year, the chair of the committee audit effectiveness to assess whether an earlier matters with the committee: is invited to attend the initial internal audit date for such a tender is desirable.
how the auditor supported the work of the planning meeting between management and audit committee: internal audit.
Internal audit present, at each Having considered the output of the review how the audit contributed insights and audit committee meeting, a summary of their above, the committee recommends the added value: work and findings, the results of the internal reappointment of Deloitte as the groups auditor a review of independence and objectivity audit teams follow up of completed reviews at the next Annual General Meeting.
of the audit firm: and a summary of assurance work completed the quality and content of the formal audit by others including ISI Internet Securities Inc, Effectiveness of internal financial report in the annual report: control systems a multi-location subsidiary business internal the appropriateness of the audit fee The committee invests time in meeting with audits: technology audits: circulation audits: including value for money considerations internal audit to better understand their work polls and awards audits and peer reviews as but also to ensure a sufficient quality of and its outcome.
At each meeting of the explained above.
Internal audit is also involved work can be achieved for the fee proposed: committee internal audit present a detailed in other risk assurance projects including fraud results of regulatory reviews by the audit report covering controls audited since the last investigation, an annual fraud and bribery risk inspection unit.
meeting, matters identified and updates to assessment, information security and business any previous control issues still outstanding.
Internal audit is subject to an external The appointment of Deloitte as the groups The committee challenges internal audit and review every five years, the results of which are external auditor incumbents since the last audit discusses these audits and matters identified fed back to the committee.
This external review tender in 1998 is kept under annual review and, as appropriate.
Internal audit supplement their was last carried out in September 2013. if satisfactory, the committee will recommend work through a series of peer reviews completed the reappointment of the audit firm.
The 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Corporate Governance Governance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 42 42 www.
com Corporate Governance continued The company has, however, made significant The Viscount Rothermere has a significant Non-audit work strides over the past few years to bring its shareholding in the company through his The audit committee completes an annual board structure more in line with best practice.
beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this assessment of the type of non-audit work In particular, the number of executive directors he is not considered independent.
permissible and a fide minimis level of non-audit has been reduced to eight, compared to 14 fees acceptable.
Any non-audit work performed in 2009, and two new independent directors The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan outside this remit is assessed and where were appointed at the beginning of the year.
are also executive directors of DMGT, an appropriate approved by the committee.
Fees It is the companys intention over time to get intermediate parent company.
However, paid to Deloitte for audit services, audit related to a position where the majority of its board the company is run as a separate, distinct services and other non-audit services are set out comprises non-executive directors, even if not and decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and in note 4.
During 2013 Deloitte did not provide all are independent because of their relationship these directors have no involvement in the significant non-audit services.
day-to-day management of the company.
non-audit fee policy is available on the They bring valuable experience and advice to companys website www.
1.2 states that half the board, the company and the board does not believe reports nonauditfee.
excluding the chairman, should be comprised of these non-executive directors are able to exert Annual Report and Accounts non-executive directors determined by the board undue influence on decisions taken by the The directors have responsibility for preparing to be independent.
For the majority of the year board, nor does it consider their independence the 2013 annual report and accounts and for the board, excluding the chairman, comprised to be impaired by their positions with DMGT.
making certain confirmations concerning it.
In 14 directors of whom seven were non-executive However, their relationship with DMGT means accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 the but only three were considered independent they do not meet the Codes definition of board considers that taken as a whole, it is fair, under the Code.
However, there are clear independence.
balanced and understandable and provides the divisions of responsibility within the board such information necessary for shareholders to assess that no one individual has unfettered powers Contrary to provision A.
4.1, the board has not the companys performance, business model of decision.
The board, although large, does identified a senior independent non-executive and strategy.
not consider itself to be unwieldy and believes director.
However, JC Botts, although not it is beneficial to have representatives from key independent due to his length of service, acts as The board reached this conclusion after receiving areas of the business at board meetings.
advice from the audit committee.
JC Botts has been on the board for more than Provision B.
2.1 requires that the majority of the Statement by the directors on the recommended term of nine years under the nominations committee should be comprised of compliance with the Code Code and the board believes that his length of independent non-executive directors.
Although The UK Listing Rules require the board to report service enhances his role as a non-executive the committee consists of four non-executive on compliance throughout the accounting year director.
However, due to his length of service, and two executive directors, none of these with the applicable principles and provisions JC Botts does not meet the Codes definition of non-executive directors can be considered of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code independence.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Since its formation in 1969, the company has had a Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board Provision B.
3.2 states that the terms and majority shareholder, Daily Mail and General in various roles since founding the company conditions of appointment of non-executive Trust plc DMGT.
As majority shareholder, in 1969 and has been a non-executive director directors should be available for inspection.
DMGT retains two non-executive positions on since 1992.
As founder and president of the JC Botts, DP Pritchard, ART Ballingal and the board.
These non-executive directors are not company, the board believes his insight and TP Hillgarth have terms and conditions regarded as independent under the Code.
In external contacts remain invaluable.
However, of appointment, however, The Viscount addition, the companys founder, president and due to his length of service, Sir Patrick Sergeant Rothermere, MWH Morgan and Sir Patrick ex-chairman, Sir Patrick Sergeant, remains on does not meet the Codes definition of Sergeant operate under the terms of their the board but is not regarded as an independent independence.
employment contracts with DMGT and director under the Code.
As a result, the Euromoney respectively.
company failed to comply throughout the financial year ended September 30 2013 with certain provisions in the Code as set out below.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 43 Provision B.
6.2 requires the board of FTSE 350 companies to be externally facilitated every three years.
As explained above, due to the changes in the board this year, including the appointment of a new chairman, the board decided to delay this external review until 2014.
An internal evaluation of board effectiveness was completed.
Provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 require the remuneration and audit committees to comprise entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The remuneration committee is comprised of three non-executive directors, one of whom can be considered independent under the Code.
During the year, the audit committee comprised four members, only three of which were non-executive directors of the company, only two of whom can be considered independent under the Code.
On behalf of the board Richard Ensor Chairman November 13 2013 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Corporate Governance Governance
