Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction Board responsibilities and Chairman and Chief Executive EVRAZ plc is a public company limited by performance The Board determines the division of shares incorporated in the United Kingdom.
responsibilities between the Chairman and The Board and management of EVRAZ aim The Company is committed to high standards the Chief Executive Officer.
to pursue objectives in the best interests of corporate governance and control.
of EVRAZ, its shareholders and other The Board is chaired by Alexander Abramov.
stakeholders, and particularly to create Further information on the Companys The Chairmans principal responsibility is the long-term value for shareholders.
Corporate Governance policies and principles effective running of the Board, ensuring that are available on the Companys website: the Board as a whole plays a full and The EVRAZs Board is responsible for the www.
The UK Corporate Governance constructive part in the development and following key aspects of governance and Code is available at www.
determination of the Groups strategy and performance: overall commercial objectives.
Financial and operational performance: Compliance with corporate Strategic direction: Alexander Frolov is the Companys Chief Major acquisitions and disposals: governance standards Executive.
The Chief Executive Officer is Overall risk management: EVRAZs approach to corporate governance is responsible for leading the Groups operating Capital expenditures and operational primarily based on the UK Corporate performance and day-to-day management of budgeting: Governance Code published by the Financial the Company and its subsidiaries.
He is Business planning: Reporting Council FRC and the Listing Rules supported by the executive team.
Membership Approval of internal regulations and policies.
of the UK Listing Authority.
The Company of the executive team is set out on page 78. complies with the UK Corporate Governance During the year ended 31 December 2013, Code or, if it does not comply, explains the the Board considered a wide range of matters, reasons for non-compliance.
including: the Companys strategy and key priorities: As of 31 December 2013 EVRAZ complied with the performance of key businesses: all the principles and provisions of the UK consolidated budget and budgets of Corporate Governance Code 2012 version business units: with the following exception: the interim and full year results and 2012 Contrary to provision C. 3.1 of the UK Annual Report: Corporate Governance Code, Olga the Groups corporate restructuring: Pokrovskaya is a member of the Audit the implementation of projects: Committee, but does not meet the transactions, including Raspadskayas independence criteria set out in the UK acquisition and asset disposals, and Corporate Governance Code.
More than borrowing activities: 50% of EVRAZ activities and operations are HSE updates: based in the Russian Federation, and Olga corporate governance matters and Pokrovskayas technical and regional Companys policies, including approvals experience and qualification, as a past of the Anti-corruption Policy, the Code of senior audit manager at Arthur Andersen Conduct, Directors and Officers Liability and as Head of Corporate Finance at Insurance Policy, changes to the Share Russian oil company Sibneft is of particular Dealing Code: value to the Committee.
Her experience amendments to the Board committees would be extremely difficult to replicate, Terms of Reference: particularly as EVRAZ is seeking to listing considerations and UK regulatory strengthen diversity on its Board.
Company considers that, in light of her involvement with the Group over a number of years and her experience in this area, her membership of the Audit Committee is to the benefit of the Group.
The Audit Committee includes three non-executive directors, all independent, which we believe mitigates any potential risks.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued Meetings of the Board, Board composition and AGM EVRAZ plc held 10 scheduled Board meetings The following table sets out the attendance and 2 extraordinary meetings held in form of of each director at scheduled EVRAZ plc Board conference calls and exchange of emails and Board Committee meetings.
Members of senior management attended meetings of the Board by invitation.
They delivered presentations on the status of projects and performance of the business units.
Remuneration HSE Audit Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Committee AGM Total meetings in 2014 until 8 April 3114 Total meetings in 2013 1232 1121 Directors participation: Alexander Abramov 12 12 2 2 1 1 Duncan Baxter 11 12 3 3 11 15 1 1 Alexander Frolov 12 12 2 2 1 1 Karl Gruber 12 12 3 3 2 2 1 1 Alexander Izosimov 12 12 3 3 2 2 1 1 Sir Michael Peat 12 12 11 15 2 2 1 1 Olga Pokrovskaya 12 12 2 2 11 15 1 1 Terry Robinson 12 12 2 2 11 15 2 2 1 1 Eugene Shvidler 12 12 2 2 1 1 Eugene Tenenbaum 12 12 1 1 The Audit Committee met 11 times in 2013 and 4 times since the beginning of 2014 until the publication date of this annual report.
80 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Board composition and independence Years of tenure as at 31 December Date of appointment 2013 Non-Executive Independent Directors 5 Duncan Baxter 14 October 2011 3 Karl Gruber 14 October 2011 3 Alexander Izosimov 28 February 2012 2 Sir Michael Peat, Senior Independent Director 14 October 2011 3 Terry Robinson 14 October 2011 3 Non-Executive Directors 4 Alexander Abramov, Chairman 14 October 2011 3 Olga Pokrovskaya 14 October 2011 3 Eugene Shvidler 14 October 2011 3 Eugene Tenenbaum 14 October 2011 3 Executive Director 1 Alexander Frolov, CEO 14 October 2011 3 Total Board size 10 As at 31 December 2013, the Board of EVRAZ The Independent Non-executive Directors When making new appointments, the plc consisted of ten members, comprising the comprised the majority on and chaired all Boards stance on diversity, including gender, Non-Executive Chairman, eight Non-Executive Board Committees.
is to act in good faith toward meeting the Directors and one Executive Director.
recommendation contained in Lord Davies report of the 25% female board representation Boardroom diversity The Board considers that five Non-Executive by 2015 while appointing the most appropriate EVRAZ recognises the importance of diversity Directors Duncan Baxter, Karl Gruber, candidate.
To this end, female representation both at Board level and in the whole Alexander Izosimov, Sir Michael Peat and Terry on the Board in particular was the focus of organisation.
The Company is committed Robinson are independent in character and a meeting of the Nominations Committee to increasing diversity across its global judgement and free from any business or other in 2013.
See the Nominations Committees operations and we take diversity into account relationship which could materially interfere report on page 87. during the recruitment and appointment with the exercise of their independent process striving to attract a variety of judgement, in compliance with the UK outstanding people with diverse backgrounds, Corporate Governance Code.
The Board noted the nomination of Terry The Company believes that the present Board Robinson, an Independent Non-Executive structure provides an appropriate balance Director, to the Board of OJSC Raspadskaya, of skills, knowledge and experience.
The which became a subsidiary of the Company members comprise a number of different in January 2013, and was satisfied that this nationalities with a wide range of diverse skills nomination had no impact on independence sets, capabilities and experience from a variety of Mr. Robinson as a director of EVRAZ plc.
EVRAZs current female representation amongst the Boards The Board has also satisfied itself that there membership is 10% with one woman, is no compromise to the independence of, Olga Pokrovskaya, on the Companys Board or existence of conflicts of interest, for those of Directors.
directors who serve together as directors on the boards of outside entities.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued Board.
Directors have full access to a regular Nominations Committee, ii between Sir Board expertise supply of financial, operational, strategic and Michael Peat as chairman of the Nominations The Board has determined that as a whole regulatory information to help them discharge Committee and Alexander Abramov as the it has the appropriate skills and experience their responsibilities.
Directors training in chairman of the Board and iii at the Board necessary to discharge its functions.
Executive 2013 included an update by Ernst & Young meeting in December.
Board performance was and Non-Executive Directors have the on recent material changes to laws and deemed to be satisfactory.
See also the experience required to contribute meaningfully regulations affecting their duties as directors, Nominations Committee report on page 87. to the Boards deliberations and resolutions.
Non-Executive Directors assist the board by The Company undertakes regular internal constructively challenging and helping develop The Chairman has proposed organising a visit performance evaluation of the Board in line strategy proposals.
Most of the directors have by the directors to one or more of the with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
been in post since the date of EVRAZ plc Companys production sites in 2014, and Evaluation of the Board will be externally incorporation in October 2011. the directors supported this initiative.
Full details of the skills and experience of the Performance evaluation Board Committees Board members are provided in the Board of Directors section above on pages 76 to 77.
An internally facilitated Board evaluation was The Board is supported in its work by the conducted in December 2013.
The review was following principal committees: the Audit carried out with the initiative and participation Committee, the Remuneration Committee, Induction and professional of the Nominations Committee of the the Nominations Committee and the Health, development Company.
A questionnaire was distributed to Safety and Environment Committee.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Board directors for their response and there is a properly constructed and timely comment.
The results were discussed at three induction for new directors upon joining the levels: i between the members of the The table below sets out the role and composition of each committee: Name of committee Function Composition Audit Committee Audit, financial reporting, risk All 4 members are non-executive For more information please management and controls directors, of which 3 are refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 83 independent Nominations Committee Selection and nomination of Board All 5 members are non-executive For more information please members directors, of which 3 are refer to the Nominations Committee Report on page 87 independent For more information please Remuneration Committee Remuneration of Board members All 3 members are independent refer to the Remuneration and top management directors Committee Report on pages 93 and 103 HSE Committee HSE issues and corporate 3 of 4 members are non-executive For more information please citizenship directors, of which 2 are refer to the HSE Committee Report on page 88 independent Each committee has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, summarising its role and responsibilities.
The terms of reference for each committee are available on the Companys website www.
com governance directors committees Reports from each committee follow.
82 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements whether the Annual Report, taken as a Review of the new and revised accounting whole, is fair, balanced and understandable standards as well as standards issued but not and provides the necessary information for yet effective shareholders to assess the Groups See note 2 CFS, Basis of Preparation, Changes business model, strategy and performance.
in Accounting Policies Among other matters, the following were Amended IAS 19 Employee Benets reviewed and tested by the Audit Committee in See note 23, CFS respect of the Interim Financial Statements and This amended standard is required to be the full year Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee reviewed the retrospective changes to the Financial reporting standards and governance 2010, 2011 and 2012 as required for the requirements Statements of Operations and of Financial Prior period restatement, correction for prior Position.
While the impact on Statement of year error.
See note 2 Consolidated Financial Operations is negligible, the retrospective Statements CFS and Financial Review impact on the Balance Sheet is material, in that it reduces accumulated profits by $256 million.
During the review of the Interim Financial Statements, management identified an error, Areas of significant management judgement Audit Committee being the accounting as required by IAS 21, in Critical considerations made by the Audit Dear Shareholder, respect of recycling accumulated translational Committee were: gains losses on the disposal of subsidiaries, Acquisition of subsidiaries: Corber.
I am pleased to present the report of the as identified in note 2 of the CFS.
Following a See notes 4 and 11 CFS, and Chief Executive Audit Committee for the financial year to review of the substance of the error and Officers Review 31December 2013.
I would like to thank the possible control issues within the Groups Committee members, the executive financial accounting function, and in view of In January 2013 the Company finalised the management team, the internal audit group the fact that the error represented a material purchase of the 50 per cent of Corber and Ernst & Young, our external auditors, error in the 2012 Annual Financial Statements, Enterprises Limited that it did not previously for their diligence and for their respective management advised and recommended that own, thereby increasing its holding in the contributions to open discussion at our the comparative figures in the 2013 Interim quoted MICEX OJSC Raspadskaya to meetings.
and Annual Financial Statements would 82 per cent.
Work of the Committee in 2013 The Audit Committee reviewed the valuation At the Committees meetings during 2013, The Audit Committee, taking into consideration carried out by American Appraisal of all assets we focused on financial reporting, including the Companies Act 2006 and the Financial except net current assets: the valuation of the Interim Management Statements, internal Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and proven and probable reserves of Raspadskaya controls, internal audit, external audit, risk Transparency Rules DTR, consulted with the was made by IMC Montan.
These valuations management including finance, operations, Companys external auditors, stockbrokers and result in a gain to Statement of Operations of regulation, fraud and compliance.
These lawyers and concluded that the error was not US$94 million from the previously held matters were comprehensively reviewed pervasive to the Annual Financial Statements investment in Corber, valued at a restated fair and, when required, formally presented to and that the withdrawal and reissuance of the value of US$658 million.
the Committee by management, internal 2012 Annual Financial Statements was not audit and the external auditors.
necessary, taking into account the fact that the In view of the fact that Raspadskaya was loss issuance of the 2013 Interim Accounts with making in the year 2013, the Audit Committee During the year the Committee also reviewed appropriate disclosures was imminent and that reviewed an impairment analysis as at its own terms of reference, the internal audit the error was not of a price sensitive nature, December 2013 on the carrying value of charter, the Groups anti-corruption policy, as would otherwise have required immediate Corber.
drafting changes to the Groups Code of disclosure in accordance with DTR.
This Conduct and the Groups insurance policy.
conclusion, together with the opinions of the Assets held for Sale See note 12, CFS, Chief Companys external auditors and lawyers, was Executive Officers and Financial review Financial Reporting for the financial year 2013 presented to the Board, together with an In addressing our key objective, namely to analysis of the principal reason for the financial Following a review of the Companys strategic assist the Board in ensuring the integrity of functions error.
The recommendation by priorities by the Board, the streamlining of its financial statements, the Audit Committee management and the Audit Committee that the the operating businesses in order to optimise together with the assistance of both comparatives should be restated in the 2013 the Groups assets has been a major management and the external auditor, Financial Statements was reviewed and agreed consideration.
Two nominated assets held for concentrated on: by the Directors.
sale have been delayed: Evraz Highveld Steel compliance with financial reporting and Vanadium Limited and Evraz Vitkovice Steel standards and governance requirements: The Audit Committee has reviewed the issues EVS, both re-classified in the 2012 accounting areas that require significant leading to the restatement and discussed Consolidated Financial Statements as Assets judgments in applying accounting policies: with management the remediation plans.
held for Sale, with the then expectation that the substance, consistency and fairness of This remediation has now been implemented such sales would be closed in 2013. management estimates: to the satisfaction of the Committee.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued It was anticipated that Evraz Highveld would the publicly available Consolidated Financial of the proven and probable reserves are be sold to a party with which the Group had a Statements of Raspadskaya.
It was confirmed included in the Annual Report.
While that the Evraz Groups consolidated business this sale on the basis of the existing MOU model includes the stand-alone cash flow and Following upon this independent JORC remains a possibility, the Company has, in the free cash flow models of Raspadskaya, in valuation, the decrease in the depletion second half of 2013, initiated a remarketing relation to both the base and pessimistic expense was caused by a resulting revision through a recognised local investment bank.
and detailing of mine plans.
The overall mine This bidding process has suggested a lower plans, with prospective extraction extending consideration expectation thereby resulting Following this detailed review the Audit beyond 40 -- 100 years, were disaggregated in a value adjustment in the 2013 Financial Committee resolved to recommend to the into separate components of proven and Statements.
The Audit Committee has met Companys Directors that it is appropriate for probable reserves which are excluded from with the management overseeing the sale of the Financial Statements to be prepared on a the calculation of the depletion charge until Evraz Highveld.
The Committee has seen sight going concern basis.
This results in a better of a letter, from the investment bank managing matching of the current depletion charge with the sale, supporting managements judgement Management Estimates the estimated costs of extraction.
that it remains appropriate to classify the Impairment See note 6, CFS entity as Assets held for Sale, and that this The key assumptions reviewed by the Audit The Audit Committee was satisfied that the sale will be completed during 2014.
Committee are detailed in the note above.
depletion charge for the year 2013 reflected Of the total impairment charge of US$446 the revised mine plans.
Additionally, progress on the sale of EVS to million shown in the Statement of Operations, 2012s identified buyer has similarly proved US$326 million of the impairment is related to Consideration of the reporting changes to slow to reach fruition.
However, this disposal Evraz Claymont Steel in North America, which Annual Report has now been completed at the Companys is a suspended operation as described in the The Audit Committee initiated an educational estimated gross consideration within the Strategic Report contained in the Annual exercise, held in November 2013, for those Financial Statements.
members of management responsible for the note in the Financial Statements records this preparation of EVRAZs 2013 Annual Report disposal.
The Audit Committee challenged management and subsequently organised a presentation by on the key sensitivities, forward commodity the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, Going Concern See note 2, CFS and product prices, the semi and finished mix to the Board on the key reporting issues laid The Audit Committee considered a going of steel volumes, while also comparing the out in the Financial Reporting Councils FRC concern analysis, prepared by management, weighted average cost of capital assumptions Guidance on the Strategic Report Exposure using the Companys business model, WACC with managements WACC Draft published in August 2013 and the including a base case and a flexed pessimistic assumptions in respect of prior periods.
reporting changes implemented as described case.
The base case utilised parameters in the revised UK Governance Code 2012. considered and adopted by the Board of The Committee particularly challenged Directors in respect of the Companys 2014 management on the fair value, or value in use Following the Board presentation, the Directors budget and also drew on the model adopted assessments of cash generating units CGUs resolved that the Audit Committees Terms of for the Companys forward strategy.
that showed marginal surplus over the carrying Reference should be amended to include a value in the Financial Statements.
duty to report on the assurance process for The most sensitive input related to the forward the completion of the Annual Report and to prices for steel, coal and iron ore.
In the Depletion charge of mining assets ensure the Annual Report and Accounts are pessimistic case, capital expenditure and See note 9, CFS and Financial Review fair, balanced and understandable.
forward product prices were flexed, while the The depletion charge has significantly reduced rouble US$ rate was devalued from the year-on-year, from $467 million in 2012 to As a consequence of this duty, the Audit business models base case assumption.
$194 million in 2013, despite a $32 million Committee, in March 2014, presented for the charge for Raspadskaya Coal acquired in Boards consideration a draft Principal Risks The Audit Committee reviewed existing funding January 2013.
The depletion charge in relation and Uncertainties section of the Annual Report and committed sources of funds, together with to mining assets for the first half of 2013 was and the Chairman of the Audit Committee has the potential effects of a rouble devaluation on $124 million.
had meetings with the Groups CEO to discuss the Companys solvency considerations.
In the CEOs own report and the strategy section addition, the maintenance covenant remaining The material reduction in the 2013 depletion of the Annual Report.
on a minor element of the Companys source charge compared with 2012 and the material of funding was reviewed and the Committee change in 2013s second half charge Evraz Group 2013 Annual Report also considered probability with regard to compared with the higher first half charge was The Audit Committee has reviewed the form significant lines of funding in relation to the extensively discussed by the Audit Committee.
and content of the Groups 2013 Annual Companys forward financing plan.
The Committee An independent JORC valuation was made of reported to the Board that it considers the A further consideration was the emphasis of the Yuzhkuzbassugol, Raspadskaya, Evrazruda Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, matter in relation to going concern noted in and EVRAZ KGOK mining assets, as at balanced and understandable.
The results and tabulation 84 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Other matters the consideration of the Audit Committee.
The accommodate the additional work resulting Group Financial procedures manual Audit Committee referred areas of significant from the Raspadskaya acquisition.
The Head The Audit Committee received and considered risk in the Groups control environment, of Internal Audit holds regular meetings with the Group Financial Procedures manual registering a higher score than the Groups risk the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the detailing all the principal financial controls and appetite, to the Board for consideration and Committee reviews the allocated Internal revisions thereto.
This report has been tabled with recommended further action.
at the Board to inform Directors of the relevant internal financial controls.
Action on all Internal Audit recommendations The Audit Committee undertakes an annual was reviewed quarterly by the Audit Committee assessment of the effectiveness, UK Bribery Act and, where recommended actions fell short independence and quality of the Internal Audit Following upon the introduction in 2012 of agreed timelines, management was called function by way of a questionnaire to Audit of training programmes, anti-corruption to the Committee to provide explanation.
Committee members, management and to procedures and the necessary records, the A particular internal control concern related to the external auditors.
Audit Committee requested management to independent bulk stocktaking in respect of instigate an external review of the compliance scrap, ore and coal.
External Audit and framework of the Companys business The Audit Committee reviews and discusses processes and controls.
A major international Through the Internal Audit function, the Audit the external audit programme with regard to and qualified consulting organisation was Committee received and considered a six the Interim Review and Year-end audit.
In engaged to conduct this review and has monthly fraud report from the Groups particular the Committee reviews key audit reported on compliance with laws of the security function.
risks and audit materiality and challenges audit Russian Federation and the UK Bribery Act.
scope, independence and EYs quality Although there are matters, processes and In July and November 2013, the Audit assurance processes.
records that can be improved, the existing Committee reviewed the considerations of the processes and controls were confirmed as fit Groups Risk Committee, including the Groups The Audit Committee reviewed the Interim and for purpose.
risk register and key divisional risk registers, Year-end reports with particular consideration together with the Security and Governance given to EYs reports as to areas of significant To ensure that the existing processes continue registers.
Following these reviews, the estimation within the Group.
Further, following to operate at a high level of integrity the Audit committee considered the proposed Groups upon the FRCs Audit Quality Thematic Review, Committee has nominated that anti-corruption Risk appetite and the resulting proposal and published in January 2014, the Committee processes are regularly included for assurance revised Group Risk register were presented to requested the external auditor to respond to in the annual Internal Audit programme.
matters detailed in the review, concerning EYs audit processes in relation to fraud Ukraine Internal Audit and their processes for consideration of In the light of current developments, the Audit In addition to the above the Audit Committee laws and regulations.
The Audit Committee Committee has reviewed the Companys received from the Head of Internal Audit a reviewed and discussed the external various exposures and business risks in the monthly report detailing matters relating to auditors responses to these issues.
The Group has no specific exposure business risks, audit programme progress, The Audit Committee reviewed the letter of in the Crimea.
The Audit Committee paid any time delays or changes to the agreed representation to be signed by management particular attention to the impairment review internal audit programme, a summary of any in respect of both the Interim review and the of assets in the Ukraine together with tax significant findings from completed audits, Year-end audit.
receivables from the Ukraine government and a report on any whistleblowing activity, any risks to Free Cash Flow with possible impact matters relating to the UK Bribery Act and an The Audit Committee, together with the on the Groups going concern considerations.
relevant management, considered the external See Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
auditors management letter following the The Committee reviewed all whistleblowing 2012 audit, and reviewed the steps proposed Audit Committee self-assessment reports from Internal Audit.
by management in response to the external A self-assessment of the Audit Committee was auditors findings.
undertaken encompassing its composition, its The Committee reviewed the process and risk duties and responsibilities, its access to scoring with regard to the Internal Audits The Audit Committee held a session with management and its performance.
recommendation for the 2014 audit the external auditors without management programme: with certain amendments the being present and enquired as to the Risk Management and Internal Control committee approved this programme.
The appropriateness of the Companys accounting See Governance section, Risk management Audit Committee requested Internal Audit to policies.
The external auditor confirmed that and Internal Control.
perform an internal control review of the policies remain appropriate.
Raspadskayas financial and operational The Group Head of Internal Audit presented a procedures and recommended an increase in half-yearly consolidated internal audit report for the Internal Audits resource in order to EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued Correspondence from the Regulators FRC Following the completion of a questionnaire Role of the Audit Committee: Audit Quality Review Team AQRT by members of the Audit Committee and to assist the Board in ensuring the integrity EYs external audit team was subject to an management, assessing the effectiveness, of its Financial Statements.
Audit Quality review by the UK external audit and quality of the audit and the independence regulator in relation to its audit of the 2012 of EY, together with a review of the FRCs Responsibilities of the Audit Committee: Financial Statements.
The results were shared report on EY, and EYs annual Transparency to review the announcements of the with the Chairman of the Audit Committee report: the Audit Committee has Financial Results, Financial Statements and and have been discussed with the EY audit recommended the reappointment of Annual Report, and provide assurance in partner.
While some limited areas for EY as the external auditor.
respect of all reporting regulations: improvement were identified, the results to review the appropriateness of accounting did not cause any concern for the Audit Committee members and attendance policies and the key judgments and Committee in terms of the overall quality The Audit Committee has a majority of estimates: of the external audit process.
to assess and monitor the scope and effectiveness of internal controls and Non-audit services As explained in the Corporate governance systems: See note 31, Financial Statements.
report page 79 the technical experience and to identify and challenge management as to Non-audit services are managed in regional expertise that Olga Pokrovskaya financial and non-financial risks: accordance with the Groups policy for brings to the Committee is of immense value, to review and propose to the Board the approval of services to be provided by the underlined by the scale of the Companys appropriate level of the Groups risk external auditor: the policy can be found on Russian operations.
to review the procedure of detecting, Attendees were: The external auditors Ernst & monitoring and managing the risk of fraud Young LLP EY, Head of Group Internal Audit and regulatory compliance: Irrespective of the prior approval of the CFO Secretary to the executive Risk Committee, to oversee the relationship with the external or the Chairman of the Audit Committee, all Group head VP, the Group Compliance officer auditors and make recommendations to the non-audit fees are reported to the Audit and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Senior Board regarding the appointment of the Committee for noting and comment.
members of the financial accounting team external auditor: were also invited to attend the meetings.
to review the scope, resources, relationship, In 2013, non-audit fees totalled US$775,758, results, effectiveness and management of which US$268,414 related to services in The Committee also invited the VPs of action of internal audit and the internal connection with the April 2013 bond issuance.
Strategy, International Assets, Security, audits central recommendations: Of the balance, the principal engagements Projects, Procurement, Steel, Directors of IR to report to the Board on whether the Audit were in connection with Tax advisory work in and other senior executives to attend various Committee considers the Annual Report the United States, US$250,000, and advising meetings during the year.
taken on a whole, to be fair, balanced and on GHG reporting, US$149,000.
services were provided by personnel having a The Audit Committee met eleven times in connection with the external audit.
2013 and four times since the beginning of 2014 until the publication date of this Non-audit services represent 11 per cent of Annual Report.
Reappointment of the external Auditor Name Attendance During the year the Audit Committee reviewed Terry Robinson Chairman its policy regarding the selection of the Groups external auditor, the original practice Duncan Baxter being to seek a tender for external audit every Sir Michael Peat five years.
The Audit Committee considered the UK Governance Codes guidance that a Olga Pokrovskaya tender be made every 10 years and have so amended the Companys policy.
EY were appointed as auditors to the Company upon Four meetings were held by conference calls.
EY were the auditors to the predecessor group of companies and the audit was last tendered in 2009.
The rotation of the lead EY audit partner is every five years.
The lead audit partner, Mr Ken Williamson, assumed that role for the 2011 audit.
86 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements At its meeting on 17 October the Committee particular development and training considered the following issues: requirements.
The composition of the Board and the age, At its meeting on 12 December, the diversity and length of time in office of its Committee continued its discussion of members, as well as the continuing senior management performance and independence of the independent nonsuccession planning.
It was agreed that the Board with the Chief Executives assessment of represented a good mix of skills and senior management and with his plans for experience, that the Company had benefited development and succession, and were from having a stable Board and a group of appreciative of the time and attention people who interact well, and that the devoted to this important area.
independent non-executives continued to be independent.
It was also agreed that greater The Committee also considered the results female representation and, in due course, of the Board Effectiveness questionnaire.
progressive change to bring fresh It was a detailed questionnaire, replies to perspectives are desirable, and options in which were submitted by all Board members, this respect were discussed.
The Committee without attribution, directly to the Companys also considered the membership and external Board Secretaries.
They aggregated chairmanship of Board committees and the the replies which were considered by the Nominations Committee committees effectiveness.
It was agreed Committee and subsequently by all other Committee members and attendance that the chairmanship of the committees Board members.
The evaluation considered, The members of the Nominations Committee at should be rotated over time.
inter alia, the balance of skills and 31 December 2013 and throughout the year The Committee considered the performance experience on the Board, independence, were Sir Michael Peat Chairman, Alexander of senior management and senior knowledge of the Group, the content and Abramov, Terry Robinson, Alexander Izosimov management succession planning, with effectiveness of meetings and diversity and Eugene Shvidler.
Three of the five members important input from the Chief Executive.
The Committee concluded of the Committee were independent nonIt was a wide-ranging and constructive that it had been a helpful and encouraging executives.
discussion with conclusions deferred exercise, with the results confirming that the until the Committees next meeting.
Board was working well, but also including The Committee met on two occasions during Finally, the Committee considered directors some helpful suggestions for improvement.
These included actions to enhance the It was concluded that a briefing on company secretarial function, training for developments in UK Corporate Governance directors, reporting to the Board by and Reporting should be provided to the sub-committees and the allocation of time Board as a whole this was done at the to agenda items.
November Board meeting and that individual directors should be encouraged to identify Performance of the Chairman and individual and attend courses which meet their directors Prior to the Nominations Committee meeting on 12 December 2013 the Chairman of the Company and the Chairman of the Nominations Name Attendance Committee discussed the performance of the Sir Michael Peat Chairman individual directors, including time available to devote to the Companys business.
In addition, Alexander Abramov the Senior Independent Non-executive Director sought views from all directors about the Terry Robinson performance and contribution of the Chairman.
Alexander Izosimov Assessment of the Committees effectiveness Eugene Shvidler The Committees own effectiveness was considered as part of the review of the Boards effectiveness.
All members were present for both meetings, with the Chief Executive in attendance.
2014 priorities The Committee will continue to fulfill its general responsibilities, with particular emphasis on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, development and succession planning for senior management, providing and encouraging training for directors and facilitating an external review of the Boards performance during 2014.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued Role of the Health, Safety and Environmental community relations matters, reviewing any Committee strategies and action plans developed by The Health, Safety and Environment Committee management in response to issues raised leads the Boards thinking on health and safety and, where appropriate, making issues, as well as maintaining responsibility for recommendations to the Board concerning environmental, security and local community the same: matters.
Making whatever recommendations it deems appropriate to the Board on any area within Responsibilities of the Health, Safety and its remit where action or improvement is Environment Committee are: needed.
Assessing the performance of the Group with regard to the impact of health, safety, The following sections summarise how the environmental and community relations Committee has fulfilled its duties in 2013. decisions and actions upon employees, In addition to the scheduled meetings the communities and other third parties and Committee requested and now receives a on the reputation of the Group: monthly HSE summary report and the VP of On behalf of the Board, receiving reports HSE reports directly to the Board of Directors from management concerning all fatalities on a quarterly basis.
and serious incidents within the Group and Health, Safety and actions taken by management as a result of HSE Performance Assessment of the Group Environment Committee such fatalities or serious incidents: The HSE committee reviewed the dynamics of Committee members and attendance Reviewing the results of any independent HSE Performance and EVRAZ HSE Policy The members of the Health, Safety and audits of the Groups performance in regard implementation progress.
Environmental Committee at 31 December to environmental, health, safety and 2013 were Karl Gruber Chairman, Alexander Health & Safety Frolov, Terry Robinson and Olga Pokrovskaya.
Health & Safety performance includes the following metrics: Fatal incidents Name Attendance Lost Time Injuries LTI Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR Karl Gruber Chairman calculated as number or lost working hours due to injuries per 1 million hours worked Alexander Frolov Cardinal safety rules enforcement Terry Robinson The HSE Committee reviewed the causes of Olga Pokrovskaya all fatalities and serious incidents within the Group and the follow-up actions taken by the management as well as the information related The Committee met on two occasions during 2013, on 12 February 2013 and 18 September to the Companys internal incident investigation 2013. system immediate actions root causes systemic corrective actions.
The Committee members concluded that the key task is to set standard work requirements on safety for all management levels.
HSE topics have to become a fixed agenda item in daily work and management should provide effective safety training for employees.
The Committee reviewed the status of the 2012 2013 HSE initiatives and concluded that in most areas the initiatives started have to be further consequently implemented during 2014.
The Committee reconfirmed the need to drive a cultural change where safety is recognised as a core value by every employee and contractor and discussed the roadmap for specific HSE goals and actions to be taken in 2014, including: enforcement of the minimum Personal Protective Equipment requirements: 88 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements implementation of the lock out try out The members reviewed the new requirement is designed to identify, evaluate and manage LOTO energy isolation program to establish on Greenhouse gases GHG emissions significant risks associated with the a zero energy state of all equipment before disclosure set by the Companies Act which was achievement of the Groups objectives.
any type of work is commenced and amended by the UK Parliament on August 6, The Companys risk management procedures completed, especially during maintenance 2013.
The Committee made recommendations are designed to meet the risks to which it is and repair: on the process of GHG data consolidation and exposed.
Consequently, it can only provide facilitation of a more proactive approach to reporting.
reasonable and not absolute assurance instill a risk or hazard assessment against a risk being realised and a material methodology into the daily activity of every Details on HSE performance could be found in misstatement or loss occurring.
The Board has employee: the Corporate Social Responsibility section on delegated to the Audit Committee the oversight roll-out of behaviour safety conversations as pages 35 to 41. of this committees deliberations and the chair an HSE management tool ensuring regular of the Audit Committee is the chair of the communications between the employees HSE audit results review Groups Risk Committee.
and their supervisors with a strong focus on EVRAZ operations are subject to HSE unsafe actions to make sure incidents are compliance inspections undertaken by The Groups Risk Committee undertakes a prevented before they occur.
The twice yearly review of the Groups risk profile.
consequential risks of violating HSE It reviews the Groups operations and All of these areas of focus also involve new regulations might be regulatory fines, penalties determines the Groups principal risks and and improved training for managers, or in the worst case scenario withdrawal of uncertainties according to an impact and employees and contractors.
mining or plant environmental licences thus probability score, nominating the appropriate curtailing operations.
risk owner and reviewing the actions necessary Environmental performance to mitigate such risks and their implementation Environmental performance includes the The Committee Members of the Board by management at the Group and Regional following metrics: reviewed: levels.
Particular scrutiny is given to risks Non-compliance related environmental the performance statistics of Internal having an inherent risk greater than the levies taxes and penalties.
Industrial Audit Department IIAD for the Groups risk appetite and the mitigating actions Air Emissions Nitrogen Oxides NOx, Sulphur coal and mining assets vs. the same data to manage, where feasible, to a residual risk Oxides SOx, Dust and Volatile Organic of the state control agencys inspections.
evaluation directed below the Groups risk Compounds.
the results of environmental due diligence appetite.
Non-mining waste and by-products at Raspadskaya Coal Company, which has generation, recycling and re-use.
been recently incorporated into the Given the breadth of the Groups operations Fresh water Intake and water management Companys management scope.
it was agreed that a reporting process from aspects.
the status of the HSE Committee decision the regional risk committees should be on a system registering employees violating established with specific accountability to the The Committee undertook an environmental HSE requirements.
The Committee issued Group Risk Committee through its members performance benchmark analysis vs. similar a recommendation to create a unified Vice Presidents of Business Units, for the companies of the same industry profile.
The consolidated violators tracking system and purpose of identifying, evaluating and members concluded that EVRAZ has a good develop a standard set of corporate establishing management actions for risk waste recycling rate due to processing of its measures.
old landfills, on the other hand EVRAZ steel making facilities have potential to improve Other issues and recommendations Risk management processes and internal fresh water consumption rate and decrease The Committee members reviewed the HSE controls operate across our steel plants, of air emissions per ton of steel produced.
reporting system, and made recommendations mines, ancillary service operations, capital on the information, metrics and deadlines projects and administrative functions.
Risk The Committee reviewed environmental provided.
management and internal control procedures activities to minimise the risks of are embedded within our business practices environmental incidents and issues such as across function areas including finance, HSE, Risk management water usage and quality of return discharged human resources, procurement, IT, legal, and internal control water, air emissions, metallurgical waste security, anti-corruption and insurance Risk management process recycling, tailing dam overflow or collapse management.
There is detailed assessment of As part of the Groups Primary Listing and community complaints.
safety risks at all hazardous work places, steel requirements in October 2011, a plants and mines, and of project risks for all comprehensive financial procedures report It was noted that the main focus should be on major projects which include environmental was prepared detailing the Groups Internal environmental risk mitigation measures: waste risk assessments.
The finance and strategic Controls and risk management systems and water and air emission reduction programs risks of major projects are prepared by the activity.
In substance the report represents the that should be implemented during the next executive and presented to the Board for its Group Internal Control Manual.
In June 2013 EVRAZ Environmental consideration and key associated risks are was last updated in March 2014.
The Board Strategy was updated based on risk kept under regular review by the Board.
has overall responsibility for the Groups assessment and the cost options have been processes of Risk Management and Internal included into the financial models for the next Regional risk committees have been set up at Control, and for reviewing the effectiveness of five years.
Environmental risk minimization all major regions of the Groups assets and these processes.
In accordance with FRC measures have been considered by the lead the process to deploy risk management at guidance, the purpose of the risk management management at Strategic sessions.
our major steel and mining operations.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued The Group Enterprise Risk Management ERM major risks and uncertainties prior to the EVRAZ applies the following core principles to process is designed to identify, quantify, publication of the Annual Report and the the identification, monitoring and management respond to and to monitor the consequences interim results and presents the major risk of risk throughout the organisation: of a Risk Committee agreed risk register that register and risk matrix for the Boards Risks are identified, documented, encompasses both internal and external consideration and approval, together with assessed, monitored, tested and the risk critical risks.
This process is consistent with a review and recommendations in respect profile communicated to the relevant risk the listing rules published by the UK Financial of the Groups risk appetite.
management team on a regular basis: Conduct Authority and is based on Internal Business management and the risk Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the The Groups executive management is management team are primarily responsible Combined Code.
responsible for embedding the agreed Risk for ERM and accountable for all risks Management related internal controls and assumed in their operations: An important part of the risk management mitigating actions throughout the entirety of The Board is responsible for assessing the process is the determination of appropriate the Groups business and operations and optimum balance of risk through the risk appetite at Group management level, through all levels of management and alignment of business strategy and risk thereby identifying particular risks and supervisory personnel.
Such practices serve to tolerance on an enterprise-wide basis: and uncertainties which require specific encourage a risk conscious business culture.
All acquired businesses are brought within Board oversight.
the Groups system of internal control as soon as practicable.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups EVRAZ risk management framework Top-down approach: oversight, The Board of Directors: identification, assessment and Overall responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control management of risks at corporate Approves strategic objectives and risk appetite level Executive Risk Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit Identifies, assesses and Supports the Board in monitoring Supports the Audit Committee monitors group-wide risks and risk exposure against risk appetite in reviewing the effectiveness of mitigation actions Reviews the effectiveness of risk our risk management and internal management and internal controls controls systems systems Regional risk committees Adopt regional risk appetite Support the Executive Risk Committee in reviewing and monitoring effectiveness of risk management Identification, assessment and management of risks at the regional level Bottom up approach Monitoring of risk management process and effectiveness of internal control identification, assessment and management of risks at regional Site levels and site level and across the Identification, assessment and mitigation of risks functions Promoting risk awareness and safety culture Risk management activity in 2013 The Head of Internal Audit served as Secretary thereby ensuring that the Groups ongoing In 2013 regional risk committees continued to the Risk Committee and participated in internal control process is adequate and identifying, evaluating and instigating regional discussions of the Groups risk profile and effective.
Detailed mitigation actions as part of its monitoring risk assessment and evaluation of risk issues process.
As of the end of the year 2013 the control at the plant and mine levels were conducted in environment of Raspadskaya is still in the 2013.
Risk registers for Yuzhkuzbassugol and The Group has made good progress in making process of integration into the control Raspadskaya were developed and reviewed by sure that its anti-bribery and anti-corruption environment of the whole EVRAZ group.
programme is effective through a independent and external party attestation process.
As A department of the Company headed by The Groups Risk Committee reviewed the noted above, from 2013 the budgeting process Senior Vice President Leonid Kachur has Groups risk profile in June and October 2013. includes consideration of principle risks in specific responsibility for preventing and Principal risks considered on the October building up budgets for initiatives mitigating detecting business fraud and abuse, including meeting were then used in preparation of the those risks exposures.
fraudulent behaviour of the Companys Group consolidated budget for 2014 according employees, customers and suppliers, which to the new requirement for the budgeting Controls may cause a direct economic loss to business.
process and aimed at enhancement of this The Audit Committee has the primary oversight Solid internal controls help minimise the risk, process including balanced risk mitigation role of the Groups internal control regime and and EVRAZs business security department actions.
has direction as to the internal audit function ensures that appropriate processes are in resources and the annual audit programme place to protect the Companys interests.
90 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Components of the system of internal control Component of the system of internal control Basis for assurance Actions in 2013 Assurance framework principal entity-level Self-assessment by management at all Certification of the system of internal control controls to prevent and detect error or material major operations took place in mid-year and at the end of fraud, ensure effectiveness of operations and Review of the self-assessment by Internal 2013 and was facilitated and reviewed by compliance with principal external and internal Audit Internal audit regulations Documented regulations on establishment of Monitored by controlling and established Signing power matrix defining transaction delegated authorities, including approval of management committee and subauthority limits has been updated in 2013 transactions and investment projects committees Signing power matrix is subject to approval Reviewed by Internal Audit by the Management committee of the Group Operating policies and procedures Implemented, updated and monitored by Operating policies and procedures were management updated as per the internal initiatives by Reviewed by Internal Audit operational management as well as as response to the Internal Audit recommendations Operating budgets Monitored by Controlling Unit Operating budgets were prepared and Reviewed by Internal Audit approved by the Board of Directors Approved by the Board of Directors Accounting policies and procedures as per the Developed and updated by Reporting Accounting policies and procedures were corporate accounting manual department updated as the standard process Reviewed by Internal Audit Internal Audit deficiencies.
In 2013 Internal Audit initiated function has been in process of aligning Internal audit is an independent appraisal a review of the effectiveness of the procedure common internal audit practices throughout function established by the Board to evaluate of physical inventory on the Executive the Group through its quality assurance and the adequacy and effectiveness of controls, management committee as a further step in improvement programmes.
systems and procedures, within EVRAZ, improving internal control in this area.
in order to reduce business risks to an Further information regarding the Companys acceptable level in a cost effective manner.
The internal audit planning process starts with internal control and risk management the Groups strategy and includes the formal processes can be found on the Companys The latest version of Internal Audit Charter risk assessment process, and the process of website www.
com governance control of EVRAZ plc was approved by the Board on identification of management concerns based 13 December 2012. on previous audits results, and ends with an Conflicts of interest internal audit plan which is approved by the For information on the Shareholder Agreement The role of the Internal Audit Department in the Audit Committee.
Audit resource is please refer to Significant contractual Group is to provide an independent, objective, predominantly allocated to areas of higher risk arrangements in Directors Report on innovative, responsive and effective valueand to the extent considered necessary, page 107. added internal audit service through a resource is allocated to the financial and systematic and disciplined approach by business control and processes with Alexander Abramov is the Chairman of the assisting management in controlling risks, appropriate resource reservation for the Company and Alexander Frolov is the CEO.
monitoring compliance, improving the efficiency ad hoc and follow-up assignments.
Ms. Pokrovskaya, Mr. Shvidler, Mr. Tenenbaum, and effectiveness of internal control systems Mr. Abramov and Mr. Frolov have been and governance processes.
In 2013 internal audit projects have covered appointed to the Board of Directors of the the following principal group risks: Company by the major shareholder pursuant In 2013, EVRAZs Head of Internal Audit, being 1.
Capital projects management to the terms of the relationship agreement.
Secretary to the Audit Committee, attended all 2.
Treasury and working capital management The indirect and direct shareholdings of these its meetings and addressed any reported 3.
Health and safety and environmental Directors in the share capital of the Company deficiencies in internal control as required by 4.
Cost competitiveness are set out in the Directors Report.
No other the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee 5. Business interruption and equipment conflicts of interests exist between the private continued to engage with executive downtime management interests of the directors or members of senior management during the year to monitor the management and their duties to the Company.
effectiveness of internal control and The Companys internal audit is structured on accordingly considered certain deficiencies a regional basis, reflecting the developing that had been identified in internal control geographic diversity of the Groups operations.
together with managements response to such In light of this the head office internal audit EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued For completeness, in 2012 the Board Constructive use of Annual General Meeting considered an arms length business The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders arrangement between one of the Nonto communicate with the Board and the Board independent directors and the son of Sir welcomes their participation.
The next AGM will Michael Peat, the senior Independent Director be held on 12 June 2014.
The Chairman and of the Company, and satisfied itself that this the respective Chairmen of Committees will be arrangement has no impact on Sir Michael present at the AGM to answer shareholders Peats independence.
In addition, the Board noted the nomination Details of the resolutions to be proposed at of Terry Robinson to the Board of OJSC the next AGM can be found in the Notice of Raspadskaya, a subsidiary of the Company, AGM at www.
com investors information and was satisfied that this nomination had no general meeting impact on Mr. Robinsons independence.
The Board has determined that voting on all Relations with shareholders resolutions at the AGM will be by way of a poll.
An ongoing dialogue with stakeholders is an Each member present in person or by proxy essential aspect of corporate activity.
We use has one vote for each fully paid ordinary share various communication channels including of which she he is a holder.
announcements made via the London Stock Geographical distribution of institutional Exchange, the Annual Report and Accounts, investor share ownership by geography or the Annual General Meeting the AGM and the by investment type as at midJanuary 2014 Companys website www.
com The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, senior management and the investor relations team regularly engage with 13% institutional investors through roadshows, 2% 4% group and one-on-one meetings to discuss the Companys operations and a wide range of 4% 48% issues including governance.
Approximately 7% 500 individual group meetings, conferences and other public events involving the investment community took place during 2013.
22% The Companys top management took an active part in the meetings giving the investors and analysts an opportunity to receive first-hand information about Companys operations and discuss concerns the United Kingdom Sweden initiative that has been very much appreciated USA Russia by the investors.
We also held conference calls Norway Rest of Europe and a meeting with socially responsible Rest of the World investors SRI to discuss operational risks, health and industrial safety policies, environmental and social issues.
Information pursuant to the takeovers directive The senior Independent Director, Sir Michael The Company has provided the additional Peat, is available to shareholders if they have information required by DTR 7.2.
7 directors concerns that have not been resolved by interests in shares: appointment and contact through the normal channels of the replacement of directors: powers of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief directors: restrictions on voting rights and Financial Officer or for which such contact rights regarding control of the Company in the is inappropriate.
92 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
