58 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Board of directors Sir John Peace 64 Chairman Appointed: 6 July 2006 Other current roles: Chairman Burberry Group plc, Standard Chartered PLC Previous roles: Group Chief Executive Officer and director former GUS plc Key skills and experience: Many years experience as a successful board chairman, with this strength frequently mentioned during Board reviews.
An in-depth knowledge of the Experian business due to his role in its inception and his time as Group Chief Executive Officer of GUS plc Don Robert 53 Chief Executive Officer Appointed: 6 July 2006 Other current roles: Non-executive director Compass Group PLC.
Director and trustee National Education and Employer Partnership Taskforce.
Trustee Sage Hill School, California Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer Experian North America.
Various senior roles The First American Corporation.
Past chairman Consumer Data Industry Association Key skills and experience: Has led Experian through a period of enormous change, beginning with listing as an independent company in October 2006.
Brought many years experience in credit reporting businesses to his Experian roles Chris Callero 61 President and Chief Operating Officer Appointed: 1 April 2009 Other current roles: Advisory capacity Paul Mirage School of Business, Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences.
Board member Segerstrom Center for the Arts.
Member University of California Chancellors Chief Executive Roundtable Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer Experian Americas.
Various senior roles Bank of America 27 years.
Chief Operating Officer Wink Communications Key skills and experience: Overall responsibility includes Experian business operations around the globe, and the development and management of growth initiatives to ensure the continued success of the business.
Strong leadership skills, clear strategic vision and an in-depth knowledge of the business Brian Cassin 45 Chief Financial Officer Appointed: 30 April 2012 Other current roles: None Previous roles: Managing Director Greenhill & Co. Baring Brothers International.
London Stock Exchange Key skills and experience: Twenty years experience in the corporate advisory sector, and very familiar with the Experian business having acted as a strategic advisor to former parent company, GUS plc, in the lead up to demerger in 2006.
Previously acted as an advisor to Experian Fabiola Arredondo 46 Non-executive director Appointed: 1 January 2007 Other current roles: Managing Partner Siempre Holdings.
Non-executive director Saks, Inc. Rodale, Inc. the World Wildlife Fund, Sesame Workshop Previous roles: Senior operating positions Yahoo!, the BBC, Bertelsmann AG.
Non-executive director Bankinter S. A. BOC Group plc, Intelsat Corporation Key skills and experience: Brings directly relevant international strategic and operational experience in the technology and media sectors, including a senior role at a pre-eminent global internet company.
Has extensive leading international non-executive directorship experience and qualifications including an MBA Roger Davis 56 Non-executive director Appointed: 1 January 2007 Other current roles: Chairman Experian plc Remuneration Committee.
Chairman Gem Diamonds Limited, Cabot Credit Management, Sainsburys Bank Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer Barclays UK banking operation.
Various roles Flemings and BZW Key skills and experience: Over 20 years experience leading and managing change at large global businesses.
Understands what is required to effectively manage a large organisation as a result of extensive executive and non-executive experience Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Company Secretary: Charles Brown FCIS Independent Auditors:  LLP, Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 59 Alan Jebson 63 Non-executive director Appointed: 1 January 2007 Other current roles: Chairman Experian plc Audit Committee.
Non-executive director Vodafone Group plc Previous roles: Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Chief Information Officer HSBC Holdings plc.
Non-executive director MacDonald Dettwiler Key skills and experience: Information technology, global resourcing and an operational background are invaluable at a large global business like Experian where issues around server technology and information security are of great importance.
A qualified chartered accountant, with top-level non-executive experience Deirdre Mahlan 50 Non-executive director Appointed: 1 September 2012 Other current roles: Chief Financial Officer Diageo plc Previous roles: Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Head of Tax and Treasury Diageo plc.
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Diageo North America.
Vice President of Finance Diageo Guinness USA.
Various senior finance roles Joseph Seagram and Sons, Inc.  Key skills and experience: A qualified accountant with an MBA, Deirdre has many years experience in senior finance roles.
Currently a board member at Diageo plc, so understands the operational challenges of a global public company George Rose 61 Non-executive director Appointed: 1 September 2012 Other current roles: Non-executive director and audit committee chairman National Grid plc, Genel Energy plc, Laing ORourke plc.
Member Industrial Development Advisory Board Previous roles: Group Finance Director, Director of Finance and Treasury BAE Systems plc.
Senior finance positions Ford, Leyland DAF plc, Rover Group.
Non-executive director SAAB AB, Orange plc Key skills and experience: Georges career has included high-level finance positions, including at board level with BAE Systems plc.
Continues to hold non-executive positions with leading companies Sir Alan Rudge 75 Deputy Chairman and Senior independent director Appointed: 6 September 2006 Other current roles: Chairman Experian plc Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee.
President The ERA Foundation Limited Previous roles: Pro Chancellor Surrey University.
President CELTEL International B. V. Non-executive director S. E. S. A. AG.
Special Advisor General Atlantic Partners.
Chairman Board of Management of the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851, ERA Technology, WS Atkins.
Non-executive director former GUS plc.
Past Chairman Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
Past President Institution of Electrical Engineers Key skills and experience: Many years experience in general management and technology roles, giving a broad knowledge of operational issues.
Sir Alan holds a PhD in electrical engineering and has a deep understanding of the Experian business and a wealth of experience as a member of other boards and as a chairman Judith Sprieser 59 Non-executive director Appointed: 1 June 2010 Other current roles: Non-executive director Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Allstate Corporation, InterContinental Exchange, Inc. Royal Ahold N. V. Previous roles: President and Chief Executive Officer Transora.
Executive Vice President, Food Operations, Chief Financial Officer Sara Lee Corporation.
Non-executive director USG Corporation, Adecco SA Key skills and experience: Relevant experience of providing insight into customer decision-making, and a wealth of international experience.
An experienced non-executive director who has chaired both audit and remuneration committees Paul Walker 55 Non-executive director Appointed: 1 June 2010 Other current roles: Non-executive Chairman Perform Group plc.
Non-executive director and Chairman Designate Halma plc.
Chair Newcastle Science City Partnership.
Director Entrepreneurs Forum Previous roles: Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director, Financial Controller The Sage Group plc.
Non-executive director Diageo plc, MyTravel Group plc.
Ernst & Young Key skills and experience: Spent 16 years recently as chief executive officer of a FTSE company, giving a great understanding of the challenges of running a global business.
An economics graduate with a strong financial background and high-level non-executive experience
