60 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate governance report Governance framework: Advice, review, recommendation, Delegated Board monitoring, executive forum authority flow committees Board Audit Group Operating Committee Committee See Board section The remit of this executive group includes identifying, which follows.
See Audit debating and achieving consensus on issues involving Committee strategy, growth, people and culture and operational report.
A further focus of this group, which is comprised of the most senior executives from the Group, Principal subsidiaries is to ensure that there is strong communication and co-operative working relationships amongst the top team.
These are Group The meetings tend to be issues-oriented and focus on companies to which the selected important Group issues worthy of debate.
Board has delegated certain decision-making powers, for example, Remuneration the implementation Committee Strategic project committees of decisions agreed in See global and regional principle by the Board: Remuneration executive management These committees are comprised of the most senior global Committee of the operations of and regional executives.
The remit of the committees is to report.
the Group within the oversee a process to ensure that all strategic projects are strategy and budget appropriately resourced, risk-assessed and commercially, approved by the Board: financially and technically appraised.
Depending on acquisitions and the outcome of the discussions, the conclusions of the disposals with a value up committees are then considered by the relevant Group to US$20m, and capital company for approval.
and Corporate Governance Committee Risk management committees executive, regional and global operations Executive See Nomination management team and Corporate The primary responsibility of the Executive Risk Management Governance Committee ERMC, which is comprised of senior Group Committee executives including the executive directors and the report.
Company Secretary, is to oversee the management of global Operating risks.
The regional risk committees oversee the management businesses of regional risks consistent with Experians risk appetite, strategies and objectives.
Global operational related risks, including technology and project risks, are monitored by a Global Delegated Authorities Matrix global operations risk management committee.
This key document pieces together the schedule of matters reserved to the Board, the terms of Internal Audit reference of the Board committees as well as the authority levels for the Groups principal Conducts a range of independent audit reviews throughout subsidiaries, directors and senior executives.
the Group during the year and is represented at each For matters not reserved to the Board, the matrix Audit Committee meeting.
Internal Audits plans, results prescribes the cascade of authorities delegated and key findings are presented to and discussed with throughout the Group by respective Group the Audit Committee.
The internal audit programme companies, together with the monetary limits and methodology are aligned to the risk categories and of such delegations.
The matrix is reviewed and risk assessment parameters established by the global refreshed regularly and the Board monitors the risk management function.
It also makes use of risk exercise of delegations to the Groups principal assessment information at a business level in planning subsidiaries which are reported to it at each Board and conducting its audits.
There are also regional matrices in place.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 61 Board Attendance at Board and principal committee meetings Nomination Composition and Corporate The Board currently comprises the Governance Remuneration Chairman, three executive directors Board Committee Committee Audit Committee and eight independent non-executive Sir John Peace 100% - 6 6 100% - 6 6 n a n a directors, including a Deputy Chairman.
In January Includes, in brackets, attendance at one ad-hoc Board meeting held during the year.
Percentage each year, senior management presents calculations do not include attendance at the ad-hoc Board meeting.
the proposed strategy to the Board Deirdre Mahlan and George Rose were appointed on 1 September 2012. for the following financial year.
This David Tyler retired on 31 December 2012. provides an opportunity for the Board to critically review the proposed strategy with management and, at the January It is not possible, or correct, for the Management oversight review of Board meeting, consider the strategy Board to be involved with the day-to-day operating, financial and risk performance.
The budget discussions in management of the Groups activities, Regulatory statutory activity including March are essential for ensuring that the but it is accountable to shareholders for approval of the Groups results, key right resources are in place to deliver the delivering financial performance and stakeholder documents and dividends.
agreed strategy, and include detailed long-term shareholder value.
To achieve Finance treasury approval of the focus on both regional and global this, the Board has put in place a framework for the Groups finance, business line budgets.
framework of controls which enable risk banking and capital structure to be appraised and managed effectively The Board also monitors management arrangements.
through clear and robust procedures and financial performance against the and delegated authorities.
In addition, Appointments approval, upon the Groups goals.
To enable them to do there are certain key activities that it has recommendation of the Nomination this, operational and financial updates reserved to itself for decision.
and Corporate Governance Committee, are provided at every Board meeting of the appointment of new directors.
and financial updates are provided Examples include: between meetings.
The Board also Strategy and management approval and Approval of Group policies including, for receives post-investment reviews on oversight of Experians long-term objectives example, an anti-corruption policy, a gifts an agreed timeline for any acquisitions and commercial strategy, ensuring that the and hospitality policy, a global code of and or organic investments that it has necessary financial and human resources conduct and a global compliance policy.
are in place to meet the objectives.
LENGTH OF TENURE OF DIRECTORS AT BALANCE OF EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE BALANCE OF MALE AND FEMALE DIRECTORS 31 MARCH 2013 DIRECTORS AT 31 MARCH 2013 AT 31 MARCH 2013 Chairman Executive 0-5 years Male Independent Over 5 years non-executive Female Company listed in October 2006 62 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate governance report continued What did the Board do during the year?
The key corporate activities during the year, among which are activities which reflect the overall strategy of the Group and were decided upon in the light of the Boards risk appetite and risk management processes, were as follows: Investor relations Other Operational and financial performance, including Received an investor relations monitoring and media update at each Board meeting.
Received operational and financial Reviewed draft analysts results updates from the Chief Executive presentations, when reviewing Officer and Chief Financial Officer the Groups full and half-year respectively at each scheduled financial results.
Reviewed the results of the 2012 Reviewed monthly finance reports, investor audit see engagement with including details of performance shareholders and others section for against budget and the Groups more detail.
Approved the Groups annual Through the Remuneration report, full and half-year financial Committee, engaged with top results and made recommendations shareholders on proposed regarding dividend payments.
Approved the issue of US$600m 2.375% notes due 2017.
Approved the Groups budget for 2013 14, and received updates Governance and risk on Group insurance and pension arrangements.
Reviewed reports on risk and the appropriateness of the financial statements being prepared on a going concern basis.
Formalised the Groups process and procedures in relation to compliance, including the role of the Corporate development Strategy Global Compliance Council, and the Received an update at each Board Spent the annual strategy day approval of compliance policies.
meeting on the pipeline of potential receiving presentations from the Received regular updates on corporate development activity.
Groups senior leaders: these corporate responsibility issues, and included consideration of the Approved the acquisition of a further the annual environmental and health key strategic issues facing the 29.6% interest in Serasa S. A. the and safety updates.
Group and potential growth areas.
market leading credit bureau in Reviewed the findings of the 2012 Brazil, taking the Groups holding to Received specific presentations on Board evaluation, approved a set of 99.6%.
new product and platform initiatives, internal Board principles, approved developing engagement with clients Concluded the formation of a joint amendments to Board committee and employees, potential new venture with Cerved Group SpA to terms of reference, authorised verticals and financial analysis.
provide enhanced consumer credit potential conflicts of interest of information services to the Italian Approved the Groups strategy Board members and approved market.
for 2013 14. the annual re-election of Board Approved the disposal of the Groups members.
price comparison shopping business Received details of share dealings PriceGrabber and North American and external appointments of Board online lead generation activities.
Conducted post-investment reviews on the 2010 acquisitions of the assets of Mighty Net online credit monitoring services and RentBureau aggregation of rental payment history data in the US.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 63 Board meetings The Board meets regularly during the year and on an ad-hoc basis as required.
For each scheduled meeting, the directors normally meet over a two or three day period and Board committee meetings are also held during the time the directors are together.
Structuring the Board and committee meetings in this way enhances the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
At least one overseas Board meeting is held each year, which provides management Case study: Induction programme Deirdre Mahlan and George Rose across the Group with the opportunity Deirdre and George were appointed on 1 September 2012, and took part in an to present to the Board and meet the intensive induction programme which was presented under three key themes: directors informally.
Corporate, Products and Propositions, and Regional and Geographic Issues.
The programme was designed to align with existing Board meetings and Board evaluation events, and sessions were held in Dublin, London and Costa Mesa, California.
A comprehensive evaluation of the Under each of the themes, the new directors received the following induction performance of the Board, its committees from senior executives: and each of the directors is carried out every year.
For 2012, the Board evaluation Corporate the history of the Group, briefings on strategy operational, was facilitated internally, led by the financial and corporate development, growth programmes, investor relations, Chairman and supported by the Company audit, legal and regulatory, talent, governance and risk, information security Secretary.
Using online evaluation and brand.
software, the views of all directors Products and Propositions details of strategic accounts clients, and regular Board attendees were each of the global business lines and demonstrations on a number of the canvassed in respect of the performance Experian products.
of the Board, and the following broad categories were evaluated: Regional and Geographic Issues presentations from the leaders of businesses in North America, Latin America, UK and Ireland, EMEA and the role of the Board and directors: Asia Pacific, as well as the leader responsible for strategic markets.
Board support and the role of the Company Secretary: decision-making: An independently drafted report on Group can expect to face in the coming Board composition and succession the results of the Board evaluation was years were also highlighted, including: planning: data security, management succession, circulated to directors ahead of, and the performance of the Board, the increasing regulatory environment, considered at, the Board meeting held its committees and directors: the effective allocation of resources and in January 2013.
The findings of the risk: geographical expansion.
These are areas evaluation were positive in all of the relations with shareholders: and that are already scrutinised by the Board, areas highlighted above, with particular and will continue to be.
highlights including the role of the Board in providing direction for management, Overall, the Board concluded that it This process was complemented with the quality of Board decisions, the is operating effectively and that each separate meetings between each director effectiveness of the Board in setting the director is contributing to the overall and the Chairman.
The evaluation of the Group strategy, the role of the Chairman effectiveness and success of the Group.
Chairman himself was undertaken by the and committee chairmen in the decisionIn terms of Board performance, the Deputy Chairman, through consultation making process, the quality of support following priorities were identified: with the other directors and the Chief that the Board receives, the robust and Executive Officer.
Each principal Board Strategy continue the Boards high-quality debate at Board level and the committee also reviewed its own key development role, especially in performance and, in all cases, no issues importance of risk in making decisions.
the context of developing market of concern were raised.
Some key operational issues that the opportunities and increased regulation.
64 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate governance report continued There is also ongoing induction and Board and committee composition training to ensure that directors can to ensure a clear and effective appropriately perform their duties.
succession plan for all directors, both During the year, the Board received executive and non-executive.
induction, which included the following: Management succession continued development of the talent pool and North America presentations and ensuring the Board gets to meet the product demonstrations on the four key people.
global business lines, presentations on marketing, human resources, regulatory Board visits making sure that the and legal issues and informal meetings Board continues to visit the Groups with top talent.
UK and Ireland an overview from the Board support Managing Director, UK and Ireland, as The Group Corporate Secretariat, under well as business reviews on the strategy, the leadership of Charles Brown, the performance, competitors and future Company Secretary, is responsible for growth potential of the four global providing administrative and logistical business lines in the UK and Ireland.
The Company EMEA a presentation to the Board Secretary is also responsible for corporate which included details on financial governance, statutory and listing rules trends and forecasts, clients, the compliance and reporting, shareholder leadership team, the macro-economy services, enterprise risk management and and competitors.
He is secretary to the Board, its principal committees Decision Analytics an update from and the Global Strategic Projects the Global Managing Director, Decision Committee, and is a member of the Analytics, on the strategic priorities that Group Operating Committee.
had been identified in September 2011.
All directors are provided with a regular Conflicts of interest supply of financial and operational The articles of association of the information to assist them with the Company allow the Board to authorise discharge of their duties.
This information conflicts, or potential conflicts, of is provided on a monthly basis and Board interest.
The authorisation procedure papers are circulated at least a week involves the issue of guidance and ahead of each Board meeting to ensure a questionnaire by Group Corporate directors have appropriate time to Secretariat each August, asking review them in advance of meetings.
directors to identify any conflicts or Directors have access to independent potential conflicts, which are considered professional advice at the Companys by the Board at its September meeting.
In addition, directors are expected No director obtained any such advice to advise the Company Secretary of during the year ended 31 March 2013. any actual or potential conflicts as soon as they arise, so that they can be Induction and training considered by the Board at the next There is an induction programme for all available opportunity.
It is the Boards new non-executive directors.
The case view that this procedure operated study in this report provides a summary of effectively during the year under review.
this years tailored induction programme for Deirdre Mahlan and George Rose, which is typical of the induction programme that new directors receive.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 65 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer announcement will be made once the Senior Independent Director appointment process concludes.
The Senior Independent Director is the There is a clear separation of the roles Deputy Chairman, Sir Alan Rudge.
In of the Chairman and the Chief Executive It was confirmed in the 2012 Board this role, Sir Alan is available to meet Officer which is set down in writing.
evaluation that Sir John continues to fulfil shareholders who have concerns that An extract from the written statement his role as Chairman of Experian very cannot be resolved through discussion evidencing this separation is given below.
effectively and, in the past, institutional with the Chairman, the Chief Executive shareholders have provided positive The Company announced in May 2013 Officer or the Chief Financial Officer, feedback on Sir Johns chairmanship.
that Sir John Peace had notified it of or where such contact is inappropriate.
In September 2010, the Board appointed his intention to step down as Chairman Sir Alan Rudge as Deputy Chairman, Non-executive directors and as a director of the Company by with a clear division of responsibilities the 2014 annual general meeting, to Appointment defined between him and Sir John.
In Non-executive directors are initially be held in July 2014.
The Nomination addition, the role of Chairman of the appointed for a term of three years and Corporate Governance Committee Nomination and Corporate Governance which may, subject to satisfactory will oversee the process of appointing Committee was relinquished from performance and election re-election a successor to Sir John and a further Sir John to Sir Alan at that time.
by the shareholders, be extended by mutual agreement.
Non-executive directors normally serve a maximum of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer three, three-year, terms i. e. nine years.
This does not include time served as a Chairmans Chief Executive Officers director of the former GUS plc, because responsibilities include: responsibilities include: the Board considers the two companies to be wholly separate, with less than nine years concurrency between the The effective running of the Board, The running of the Groups executive directors of Experian plc and and ensuring that the Board as a business, and developing the whole plays a full and constructive any of the non-executive directors.
Groups strategy and overall part in the development and commercial objectives.
Meetings of non-executive directors determination of the Groups strategy In addition to their attendance at Board and overall commercial objectives.
and committee meetings, the nonexecutive directors normally meet as a group without the executive directors Promoting the highest standards With the executive team, of integrity, probity and corporate implementing the decisions of present at the end of each scheduled governance throughout the Group the Board, its committees and the Board meeting.
The non-executive and particularly at Board level.
directors also meet at least once a year without the Chairman present, and did so once during the year.
Ensuring that a dialogue is Ensuring that the Board receives Independence maintained with the Chairman on the accurate, timely and clear important and strategic issues facing information on the Groups The Board considers each of the the Group and that the Chairman performance and issues, current non-executive directors to be is alerted to forthcoming complex, challenges and opportunities independent in character and judgment contentious or sensitive issues.
and also that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect or could appear to affect each Ensuring effective communication Leading the communication directors judgment.
with the Companys shareholders, programme with shareholders.
including by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other executive management, and ensuring that members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of the major investors in the Company.
66 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate governance report continued Engagement with shareholders annual results announcements, and others Experian website half-year results announcements and interim management statements, is The Company places considerable published on the Companys website importance on communication and Additional information relevant to so that all shareholders can have maintaining good relationships with corporate governance at Experian full access promptly to Company shareholders, and makes every can be found on the Experian announcements.
The Experian Investor effort to ensure that shareholders website at www.
com Relations application for tablet are kept informed of significant There you will find: computer, which contains information Group developments.
Terms of reference of the on financial performance, together principal Board committees.
To assist members of the Board to with reports and presentations, and gain an understanding of the views of The schedule of matters news of upcoming events, continues institutional shareholders, the Board reserved to the Board.
receives an investor relations and The memorandum and articles The Board is also committed to media report at each of its scheduled of association of the Company.
ensuring that any concerns of private meetings, which covers a wide range shareholders are dealt with and, on Details of annual general of matters including a commentary on its behalf, the Company Secretary meeting proxy voting by the perception of the Company and oversees communication with these shareholders, including views expressed by the investment shareholders.
community, media reports, share price card is issued with the shareholder performance and analysis.
Contact details for any questions.
documentation for the annual general In November 2012, the Groups capital meeting and the Company receives markets advisory firm presented the numerous questions from private positive results of the biennial investor shareholders using the card.
The presentation constraints of information already Company Secretary ensures that the included commentary on the financial made public.
The announcement of Company responds to shareholders and share price performance of the annual and half-year results and directly, as appropriate, at or following the Company and a summary of interim management statements the annual general meeting.
observations from the investors that provide opportunities for the Company The annual general meeting is had been surveyed, as well as their to answer questions from analysts an important event in Experians suggested focus areas.
covering a wide range of topics.
During corporate calendar and provides a the year, several investor roadshows The Board consults with shareholders in valuable opportunity for the Board took place including ones in Singapore, connection with specific issues where it to communicate with shareholders New York, San Francisco, Boston, considers appropriate.
The Chairman of and meet with them on an informal London, Frankfurt and Stockholm.
the Remuneration Committee consulted basis before the main business of the with major institutional shareholders In January 2013, seminars were hosted meeting.
All directors are expected to and others in May 2012 regarding the for analysts and institutional investors in attend the annual general meeting.
proposed performance measures, London and New York, at which senior Experians 2013 annual general meeting targets and operation of the Companys executives provided updates on the will take place on Wednesday 17 July executive long-term incentive Groups strategic direction and detailed 2013 and shareholders are encouraged arrangements for the year ended 31 information on the strategy of the to attend the meeting and use the March 2013, and meetings were also Groups four global business lines.
The opportunity to ask questions.
However, held with investors in this regard.
seminars, which were well-attended, given the size and geographical diversity were chaired by the Chief Executive There is also an ongoing programme of of the Companys shareholder base, Officer and included presentations from site-visits, and dialogue and meetings attendance may not always be practical the management team.
between the executive team and and shareholders are encouraged to institutional investors and analysts.
use proxy voting on the resolutions put The Companys website is a very At these meetings a wide range of forward.
Every vote cast, whether in important method of communication relevant issues including strategy, person or by proxy, is counted, because with shareholders and all material performance, management and votes on all matters except procedural information reported to the regulatory governance are discussed within the issues are taken by a poll.
news services, together with copies of Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 67 from regional management, senior In accordance with the UK Corporate Group functional heads, the Chief Governance Code, details of proxy Financial Officer and the Chief Executive voting by shareholders, including votes Officer.
The Committee also reviewed, withheld, are made available on request and confirmed its satisfaction with, and placed on the Companys website the features of the risk management following the meeting.
In 2012, voting and control systems and the control levels at the annual general meeting framework, noting the level and quality showed a small increase to 69% of the of the various forms of assurance both issued share capital of the Company, management and independent that it compared with 68% in 2011. received during the year.
Following the Risk management and internal control review, it is the Boards view that the The Board is responsible for information was sufficient to enable it to establishing, maintaining and reviewing review the effectiveness of the Groups sound risk management and internal system of internal control in accordance control systems, and there is an with the Turnbull Guidance, and that ongoing process in place for identifying, the system has no significant failings evaluating and managing the significant or weaknesses.
risks faced by the Company, including Full details of the Experian risk those risks relating to social, ethical management and internal control and environmental matters which systems can be found in the protecting has been in place for the financial our business section of the annual year and up to the date of approval of report, which forms part of this this annual report.
As such systems corporate governance report.
are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Board committee reports business objectives, they can provide The principal Board committees are the reasonable, but not absolute, assurance Nomination and Corporate Governance against material financial misstatement Committee, the Remuneration or loss.
For certain joint arrangements, Committee and the Audit Committee.
the Board places reliance upon the The committees operate within defined systems of internal control operating terms of reference which cover the within the partners infrastructure and authority delegated to them by the the obligations upon partners boards Board.
The terms of reference are relating to the effectiveness of their available on the Experian website at own systems.
com or from the An annual review of the effectiveness Company Secretary upon request.
of the risk management and control The Company Secretary is secretary systems is required and this is to all three principal committees.
performed by the Audit Committee, Throughout the year, the committee under delegated authority from the chairmen provided the Board with Board.
The review included senior reports of the issues considered at executives being asked to confirm committee meetings and the minutes compliance with the Groups system of Audit Committee meetings were of internal control, Group policies, and circulated to the Board.
Reports of the corporate governance and corporate activities of each of the principal Board responsibility processes, i. e. to confirm committees follow.
compliance with the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors throughout the financial year.
Unqualified confirmations in respect of all material businesses were received 68 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate governance report continued To review legislative, regulatory Recommended to the Board a set of Nomination and Corporate and corporate governance internal Board operating principles.
Governance Committee report developments and make appropriate Received updates on changes to the recommendations to the Board, UK Corporate Governance Code.
Sir Alan Rudge and ensure that the standards and Chairman Received an update on the global disclosures recommended by the UK talent management programme and Corporate Governance Code succession planning at the executive are observed.
level, comprising a progress review of the talent, leadership and culture agenda, an insight on the impact this Governance agenda has had on employees by The Committee was in place throughout Current members reference to key metrics and videos, the year ended 31 March 2013 and and future plans to build on the Sir Alan Rudge Chairman met six times.
Eight members of the success to date of the agenda.
Sir John Peace Committee are considered by the Don Robert Board to be independent non-executive As recommended by the UK Corporate Fabiola Arredondo directors in accordance with provision Governance Code, the Boards diversity Roger Davis B.
2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance policy can be summarised as follows: Deirdre Mahlan Code.
The Group Human Resources We respect, value and welcome George Rose Director and the Global Talent Director diversity, including gender diversity, and Alan Jebson attend certain meetings by invitation.
seek to reflect the diversity of our client, Judith Sprieser investor and general employee base Activities Paul Walker in our Board.
To this end, we recruit At its meetings during the year, talented and diverse Board members the Committee: who have the appropriate mix of skills, Primary roles Discussed Board governance, capabilities and market knowledge To ensure that appropriate procedures specifically plans for Board to ensure Board effectiveness.
When are in place for the nomination, succession and new non-executive recruiting, we look across all sectors selection, training and evaluation directors.
and non-traditional talent pools and of directors, and that adequate we require diversity of candidates on Considered where Board and succession plans are in place.
committee meetings should be held, To review the Board structure, size, and what the focus of meetings The UK Corporate Governance Code composition and succession needs, at should be i. e. who the directors also recommends that we describe all times keeping under consideration should meet, and what parts of the process used in relation to Board the balance of membership and the the business should come under appointments.
The Committee reviews required balance of skills, experience, the spotlight.
and approves an outline brief and role independence and knowledge of Approved the process for the specification and appoints a search the Board.
agent for the assignment we would To identify and nominate, for the disclose the name of the search agent Received an AGM briefing Boards approval, suitable candidates and any other connection with Experian from the Company Secretary, to fill vacancies for non-executive in the following annual report.
Meetings including voting results and and, with the assistance of the Chief would then be held with the search shareholder feedback.
Executive Officer, executive directors, agent to discuss the specification Recommended to the Board that all with such appointments made on and the search, an initial long list of directors retire at the 2013 annual merit and against objective criteria candidates would be prepared and general meeting.
to ensure that the Board maintains interviews held.
A short list would then its balance of skills, experience, Reviewed its performance and terms be presented to the Committee, and the independence and knowledge.
Committee would consider the short Recommended to the Board list and recommend the appointment to the re-appointment of certain the Board for its consideration.
In due directors for further terms following course, a tailored induction programme rigorous review.
would be developed for the new director.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 69 Remuneration Committee report Governance Received updates including in respect of performance conditions The Remuneration Committee was in respect of the long-term incentive in place throughout the year ended Roger Davis plans of the Company.
Chairman All of its members are considered by Agreed the participants for certain the Board to be independent nonlong-term incentive plans.
executive directors in accordance with Received an update on corporate provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate governance issues relevant to Governance Code.
The Chairman and remuneration, including the response Chief Executive Officer attend meetings of the Company to the UK Department by invitation.
They do not attend Current members for Business Innovation & Skills BIS when their individual remuneration is consultation on revised reporting Roger Davis Chairman discussed and no director is involved in regulations for executive pay.
Fabiola Arredondo deciding his or her own remuneration.
Alan Jebson Agreed to make share plan awards.
Other regular attendees include the Deirdre Mahlan Approved the proposed remuneration Group Human Resources Director and George Rose for new senior appointments.
members of the Global Reward team.
Sir Alan Rudge The Committee meets regularly with its Considered certain executive Judith Sprieser independent advisers.
Paul Walker Reviewed the fee of the Chairman All members of the Committee were and the salaries of the Chief Executive provided with an induction in the role of Primary roles Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Committee and the operation of its To recommend to the Board the Chief Operating Officer, the terms of reference on first appointment.
senior management remuneration Company Secretary and a number Activities policy and the remuneration of of senior executives, taking account the Chairman.
of remuneration arrangements At its meetings during the year, throughout Experian.
To determine individual remuneration the Committee: packages for executive directors and Initiated the invitation to employees Received a presentation from its certain senior executives.
to participate in the 2012 Sharesave advisers on trends in executive To communicate with shareholders on scheme.
remuneration and corporate remuneration policy.
Reviewed the draft report on directors To review and recommend to the remuneration.
Discussed the areas to be considered Board the design of the Groups short Agreed the 2011 12 bonus outcome in the next financial year in terms of and long-term incentive plans.
and the 2013 bonus targets and those remuneration strategy.
To oversee the Groups executive for long-term incentive awards.
Reviewed its own performance and pension arrangements.
Initiated and reviewed feedback terms of reference.
from a shareholder consultation The report on directors remuneration exercise concerning the proposed sets out the way in which the Company performance measures, targets and has applied corporate governance operation of the Companys long-term principles to directors remuneration.
70 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Chairman and the other directors Agreed the 2013 audit plan with the Audit Committee report attend meetings by invitation.
Other external auditors, noting the risk regular attendees include the General areas to be covered by the audit and Alan Jebson Counsel and the Head of Global the materiality levels to be applied.
Representatives from The presentation to the Committee  LLP, including set out the objectives of the audit, the the lead audit partner, attend meetings proposed approach to the audit a riskof the Committee.
At each meeting, based approach which has evolved the Committee meets with the external to reflect the changing nature of the auditors and the Head of Global Internal Experian business, together with the Audit without management present.
timetable and the audit team.
Current members Received updates on the audit process In terms of recent and relevant financial Alan Jebson Chairman from the external auditors, which experience, the Committee includes Fabiola Arredondo included details of the status of the Deirdre Mahlan, the current Chief Roger Davis audit, key matters arising from the audit Financial Officer of Diageo plc, and Deirdre Mahlan and assessments of the management George Rose, former Group Finance George Rose judgments on them, reviewing the Director of BAE Systems plc and Sir Alan Rudge content of the independence letter chairman of the audit committee of each Paul Walker and the management representation of National Grid plc, Genel Energy plc letter to the external auditors.
The Board Primary roles is confident that the collective Assessed the effectiveness of the To monitor the integrity of the international business experience external audit process, through the financial statements.
of the Committee members enables issue of tailored questionnaires to them to act as an effective committee.
the members of the Committee, To review the effectiveness of the The Committee has access to the the executive directors, executive system of internal control including financial expertise within the Group and management mainly senior finance, the risk management system.
the auditors and the Chairman of the and others involved in the audit To review the effectiveness of the audit Audit Committee is in regular contact with process and the internal audit process and the independence and key members of senior management.
The Committee concluded, objectivity of the external auditors.
based on the feedback obtained and To monitor and review the Activities other information obtained by the effectiveness of the internal audit The key activities of the Audit Committee during the course of its function.
Committee during the year ended 31 other work, that the external auditors March 2013 included the following: To develop and monitor policy on nonwere performing effectively.
audit services to be provided by the Monitored the independence of the Reviewed the 2012 preliminary and external auditors.
external auditors, by reviewing the 2013 half-year results announcements To approve the remuneration and potential threats to independence and the 2012 annual report and terms of engagement of the external and the associated safeguards which financial statements, reviewed auditors and make recommendations include partner rotation, appropriate impairment papers as required by in relation to their re-appointment.
relationships between the external IAS 36 and papers supporting the auditors and Experian, having no preparation of relevant financial contingent fee arrangements, the statements on a going concern basis.
Governance use of appropriate policies of code of For more information on the matters The Audit Committee was in place conduct and independence, ensuring considered in relation to the going throughout the year ended 31 March that non-audit services fall within concern assessment, please see the 2013, and met four times with meetings agreed monetary limits and that financial review section.
held to coincide with key dates in the external auditors consider the the financial reporting and audit potential impact on audit services.
All members of the Committee The Committee concluded that the are considered by the Board to be external auditors had maintained their independent non-executive directors in independence throughout the year compliance with provision C. 3.1 of the ended 31 March 2013.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 71 Based on the outcome of the Received a compliance update at The Committee considered three performance evaluation in respect of each meeting including details of specific tax issues.
First, and in the year ended 31 March 2012, and UK Bribery Act 2010 compliance and the light of the further reduction in having concluded that the external US regulatory issues.
the main rate of UK corporation tax, auditors and Experian had complied it considered managements analysis The significant issues in relation with the guidance set out in the of the carrying value of deferred tax to the Group financial statements UK Financial Reporting Councils recognised in respect of tax losses.
considered in respect of the year ended Guidance on Audit Committees, The treatment of the asset, and 31 March 2013, and the manner in made a recommendation to the resultant impact on the tax charge which these issues were addressed, Board for shareholder approval in for the year, were considered can be summarised as follows: relation to the re-appointment of the to be appropriate.
Secondly, the external auditors and considered their Committee considered an update The Committee reviewed a engagement terms.
on the claim by the Brazilian summary of the treatment of the tax authorities in respect of the At each meeting, received an update acquisition of the further interest deduction for tax purposes of from the internal audit function, in Serasa and, in particular, the goodwill amortisation arising from including updates on work performed, accounting for the put option, the acquisition of the majority progress against the annual plan and concluding that it was appropriate to stake in Serasa in 2007.
In the staffing, as well as details of actions recognise the change in the fair value light of developments during the required by the Committee.
During of the put option from 1 April 2012 to year, it concluded that it remained the year, the Committee also received the date of the acquisition appropriate to regard this claim presentations from management in in the Group income statement.
Thirdly, the Committee respect of matters raised by internal The Committee considered the considered managements audit, and approved the annual accounting treatment of the assessment of the recognition of internal audit plan.
disposal of the comparison shopping deferred tax assets arising in Serasa Reviewed a variety of reports on and lead generation businesses in and Computec and the recognition risk as more fully described in the the light of the transaction that was of those assets through equity protecting our business section of the completed during the year.
It accepted and the Group income statement annual report.
the recognition of the loan note and respectively.
It concluded that the the determination that the inclusion Received a fraud and whistleblowing accounting for and recognition of of the results and cash flows of update.
these businesses and the disposal Reviewed the effectiveness transaction within discontinued of the Groups system of risk operations was appropriate.
management and internal control, The Committee considered the including financial, operational, recognition of the costs of the Groups compliance and risk management on efficiency programme and concluded an ongoing basis.
that both the charge recognised in the Reviewed and approved the Groups year and the provision at the balance treasury policy, approved the annual sheet date were appropriately stated.
meeting schedule of the Committee The Committee considered and evaluated its own performance managements impairment and concluded that its terms of analysis and concurred with the reference remained appropriate.
conclusion that no impairment Reviewed the key points of the UK charges needed to be recognised Financial Reporting Councils Update in the year.
It was noted that the for Directors of Listed Companies in headroom within the Asia Pacific relation to country and currency risk, region had declined during the and noted the relevant updates to year due to continued pressure on the UK Financial Reporting Councils the performance of the Groups Corporate Governance Code and businesses within that region.
72 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate governance report continued External auditors in the new UK Corporate Governance The Committee receives halfCode that FTSE 350 companies should yearly reports containing details of  LLP have put the external audit out to tender at assignments carried out by the external been the Companys auditors since least every ten years.
The Group expects auditors in addition to their normal work, the Group was demerged from the to comply with the recommendation in together with details of related fees.
former GUS plc in October 2006.
There are no contractual The payment of non-audit fees to the its September 2012 meeting, the Audit obligations restricting the Companys Companys auditors is capped at 100% Committee concluded that it remained choice of external auditor.
of fees for audit and assurance services, satisfied with the work of the auditors except in exceptional circumstances, in terms of its independence and level  LLP provide and an analysis of fees paid to the of challenge to management.
The a range of other services to Experian, external auditors for the year ended 31 Committee also noted that there were which include tax compliance and March 2013 is set out in note 11 to the no material issues around the quality advisory services.
To ensure auditor Group financial statements.
of delivery of the audit, audit staff or objectivity and independence, a policy the level of service provided.
Overall, has been adopted by the Company there were no significant recurring in relation to the provision of such items to suggest that the auditors services, which includes financial should change their approach and limits above which the Chairman of the there was nothing to indicate that an Audit Committee must pre-approve effective audit had not been carried any proposed non-audit services.
In out in respect of the year ended 31 addition to the policy, the external March 2012.
The Committee concluded auditors maintain safeguards to ensure that the Group and the auditors had the objectivity and independence of complied with the guidance set out in their service teams.
The safeguards the UK Financial Reporting Councils include the rotation of the lead audit Guidance on Audit Committees.
To engagement partner and the use of date, the Committee has not considered separate teams, where appropriate.
it necessary to require the auditors to There is also a policy in place in respect tender for the audit work, although it of the employment of former employees does acknowledge the recommendation of the external auditor.
Policy on the provision of non-audit services This policy has not been changed during the year, and remains appropriate for the Group.
Provided that the provision of such services does not conflict with the external auditors statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance, the following types of services may be assigned to the external auditors: Further assurance services: where the external auditors deep knowledge of the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed to carry out such work.
This may include, but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, regulatory reports and work in connection with acquisitions and divestments.
Tax services: where the external auditors knowledge of the Groups affairs may provide significant advantages which other parties would not have.
Where this is not the case, the work is put out to tender.
General: in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide services provided that proposed assignments are put out to tender and decisions to award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
However, the external auditors are specifically prohibited from performing work related to accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately be subject to external audit: management of or significant involvement in internal audit services: any work that could compromise the independence of the external auditors: and any other work that is prohibited by UK ethical guidance.
