Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT John Sheldrick Chairman of the Audit Committee guidance relating to the provision of nonResponsibilities and activities Foreword by the Chairman of audit services: during the year the Audit Committee review the schedule of non-audit work The Audit Committee met three times in the The Audit Committee, which comprises the carried out by the external auditors in the year under review.
Its work covers the three independent non-executive directors, year: following: met three times during the year.
The monitor the integrity of the Annual review non-audit fees of the external Committees responsibilities include Report, Full Year Results and Half Yearly auditors: reviewing the Companys financial Financial Report: statements, internal financial controls and review the financial statements of the UK review the going concern status of the risk management systems.
To support this Fenner Pension Scheme: Company: work, the Committee receives reports from review the terms of reference for the the Companys external and internal auditors.
review analyst presentations at the half Audit Committee on an annual basis: and The Committee meets separately with both year and full year: review the Groups treasury policies.
external and internal auditors and also review of internal financial controls and reviews their independence and effectiveness.
Financial reporting the internal control management systems The Audit Committee reviewed a wide range The work carried out by the Audit Committee including cyber security risk and potential of financial reporting and related matters in in the year under review is set out in the preventative measures: respect of the Companys half year and following report.
monitor and review the effectiveness and annual results statements and its Annual performance of the internal audit Composition and governance Report prior to their consideration by the function, including the approval of the The Audit Committee operates under formal Board.
In particular this included the internal control programme and review written terms of reference which govern its significant judgement areas of the accounting visits, and meet with the Senior Internal role and responsibilities.
for business combinations, the impairment of Auditor at least once a year: goodwill, provisions, taxation and the main The Committee comprises John Sheldrick, approve the Charter for Internal Audit: assumptions underlying retirement benefit Vanda Murray and Alan Wood, all of whom are review the risk management systems and obligations.
Analysis to support the going independent non-executive directors with reports which are outlined in more detail concern statement given on page 26 was also John Sheldrick acting as Chairman of the in the Business Review on page 21: reviewed with the Committee receiving Committee.
Neither the Board Chairman nor reports from management and the external review procedures for detecting fraud: executive directors are members of the auditors on this matter.
Reports highlighting Committee although they can attend by review the Whistleblowing Policy annually: key accounting matters and significant invitation.
John Sheldrick, as Chairman of the review the whistleblowing report semi judgements were also received from our Committee, met the requirement of having annually: external auditors,  had recent and relevant financial experience, LLP PwC, in respect of the year end review the summary of Group insurance having been Group Finance Director of statements and discussed by the Committee.
policies and levels of deductibles: Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 until his retirement in 2009.
The Group Company make recommendations to the Board in Following consideration of the matters Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee, relation to the appointment or presented to it and discussion with both which also has access to the services of the reappointment and remuneration of the management and PwC, the Committee was Group Finance Director, Senior Internal external auditors and their terms of satisfied that the significant judgements Auditor, Group Business Risk Manager and engagement, including approval of the made were justified and that the financial external professional advisors.
The audit plan: reporting disclosures made were appropriate.
Committee can request the attendance at make recommendations to the Board meetings of any director, external auditor or The Committee also reviewed managements about putting the external audit out to Group employee as considered appropriate.
half year and full year results presentations periodic tender: The Committee meets with the external for analysts and shareholders.
ensure that the external auditors are auditors without the presence of management Risk management and internal independent, objective and effective: at two of its meetings during the year.
control annually review the policy on non-audit work carried out by the external auditors: The Group has a continuous process for this policy takes into account external identifying, evaluating and managing risk, Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 35 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results with the process itself being subject to Audit Committee as appropriate.
A report effectiveness of the external audit function: regular review and refinement.
Risks are summarising all disclosures made during the this confirmed that the senior finance staff reported to the Audit Committee twice a year period is submitted to the Audit Committee around the Group felt that the external twice a year.
The report outlined and the Committee has received updated presentations from an independent that a questionnaire had been issued to the External auditors consultant, Maxaim, who are helping to run senior finance staff assessing the external Independence auditors on robustness of audit, quality of the Group Risk Workshop programme in The Committee continues to monitor the delivery of the audit service and quality of the conjunction with the Group Business Risk external auditors compliance with applicable Manager.
The process is now well established audit team and service provided.
The ethical guidance and guidelines and considers Committee also made its own assessment of and enhancing both the Committees and the independence and objectivity of the the external auditors performance.
The managements understanding of risk in a external auditors as part of the Committees Committee concluded that the performance of broad as well as specific sense in relation to duties.
the external auditors remained satisfactory the Group and its operations.
The Audit following the reviews.
The performance of Committee reviews the effectiveness of the The Committee received and reviewed written PwC will continue to be reviewed annually.
Groups system of internal control and confirmation from the external auditors on all assures itself on the rigorousness of the relationships that, in their judgement, may Following the performance and effectiveness internal control process.
The internal control bear on their independence.
The external evaluation, the Committee concluded it was review covers operational, financial and auditors have also confirmed that they appropriate to recommend to the Board compliance controls.
The Committee receives consider themselves independent within the PwCs reappointment as the Companys a financial internal control report at least meaning of UK regulatory and professional external auditors for the next financial year.
twice a year from the Senior Internal Auditor.
Based upon the internal control and risk The revised UK Corporate Governance Code, As a general principle, the external auditors reports, the Board determines the nature and which will apply to Fenner in the financial year are excluded from consultancy work and extent of the significant risks it is willing to ending 31 August 2014, has recommended cannot be engaged by Fenner for other nonthat FTSE 350 companies put their external take in achieving strategic objectives and the audit work unless there are compelling Board believes it does maintain sound risk audit contract out to tender at least every ten reasons to do so.
The Committee periodically management and internal control systems.
The Committee has considered this reviews the Groups policy on non-audit recommendation and it has recommended to A detailed review of Risk Management is services and those services which can be the Board that the external audit contract be set out on page 21 provided by the external auditors under the put out to tender when the current audit policy are set out in the table below.
During partner is due to rotate out of the post in the year, non-audit services amounting to 2016.
Mindful of the Financial Reporting Whistleblowing 268,000 were incurred.
This amount Councils advice on the impracticality of all Fenner operates an international Group-wide comprised tax compliance of 33,000, tax companies conducting a tender exercise at hotline to support the Group Whistleblowing advisory of 104,000 and assurance services the same time, the precise timing of this Policy.
The hotline is run by an external and of 131,000, principally relating to half year exercise will be kept under review.
The hotline facilitates agreed upon procedures.
arrangements whereby employees can make Internal audit confidential disclosures on an anonymous Effectiveness and reappointment The Committee receives a report from the basis if preferred about suspected The Committee evaluated the performance of Senior Internal Auditor at least twice a year.
Any matters so the external auditors during the year and The Committee reviewed the results of audits reported are investigated and escalated to the received a report from management on the undertaken by the internal audit team and considered the adequacy of managements Policy on non-audit services by the external auditors response to any matters raised, including the implementation of any recommendations Prohibited non-audit services Permitted non-audit services, subject to made.
The Committee considered and approval by the Committee approved the 2013 internal audit programme.
The effectiveness of internal audit was auditing their own work: taxation services: formally reviewed, taking into account the making management decisions for the specific projects on internal audit where views of directors and senior management on such matters as objectivity, proficiency, Company: the scope and management is resourcing and audit strategy and planning.
determined by the Committee: acting as advocate for the Company: staff secondments where management In addition, an external review of internal authorising, executing or consummating is clearly directing and controlling the audit is being conducted.
The results of that a transaction on behalf of the Company: secondee and on the basis that the review will be considered by the Committee determining which recommendation of secondee cannot make management during the 2013 14 financial year.
the audit firm should be implemented by decisions: Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors the Company: litigation support services, providing it internal audit services, other than does not include significant advocacy specific projects determined by the from the audit partner: and Committee: corporate financial services involving John Sheldrick provision of IT consultancy: advisory, acquisitions and disposals and Chairman of the Audit Committee due diligence.
legal services: 13 November 2013 HR and recruitment consultancy: and underwriting services.
