Directors Report Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A culture of strong business ethics.
Mark Abrahams Chairman that the executive directors undertake.
I am The corporate strategy initiative started in 2011 Foreword from the Chairman pleased to confirm that the shareholder has been distilled down to the operations to I believe that strong leadership and engagement has been very positive and that our help form their local complementary strategic governance has enabled the Group to achieve shareholders continue to be supportive of the goals.
The Board maintains a close eye on good results during a year of challenging Board, the Group and its management team.
corporate strategy and it is a standing item on operating conditions.
The Risk Workshop Board independence We as a Board are committed to maintaining programme continues to be well received by The Board comprises three independent nonthe operations and a full presentation has been high standards of governance and promoting executive directors, two executive directors received by the Audit Committee on progress to a culture of strong business ethics throughout and myself as non-executive Chairman and we the Group.
Our core values are to: do no harm date.
The programme offers each business the are supported by the Group Company opportunity to look at their operations in a to employees, the environment or corporately: Secretary.
It is my belief that the Board has the to have a strong culture of autonomy with more objective and strategic way and evaluate right balance of independent, experienced accountability and empowerment: to promote their specific risks, controls and related directors and is compliant with all main honesty, integrity and decency: to deliver mitigation strategies.
Therefore we can excellence: and to adhere to high business provide assurance to our shareholders that A detailed review of Risk Management standards.
Board decisions are taken in the long-term and Principal Risks are set out on interests of the Group and its shareholders, pages 21 to 22 I and my colleagues have found that high employees and wider stakeholders as a whole.
standards of governance do engender effective, Four acquisitions were completed early in the entrepreneurial and prudent management, Board visits year and are highlighted in the Business which in turn contributes towards the longThe Board tries to visit different Group Review on pages 24 to 25.
Potential acquisition term success of the Group.
The Board operations each year which reflect the targets and strategic fit are discussed regularly continues to adhere to the UK Corporate spectrum of Fenners business interests and by the Board.
Governance Code the Code, which was their geographic spread.
This year however, a adopted in 2011, and continues to work in provisionally planned visit to the Australian In addition to the above, the Board, amongst accordance with the Principles outlined within operations was postponed, although I did attend other matters, covered the following: it and will look to implement changes and officiate over the opening of the second introduced by the revised Code which are received the annual HSE review from the steel cord line at the Kwinana facility in Perth, effective for our year ending 31 August 2014.
Group HSE Coordinator: Western Australia.
A Board meeting and plant reviewed and approved, where tour was held at the Hallite Seals site in Changes to the Board appropriate, major capital expenditure Hampton, UK.
In 2014, the Board is planning to Changes to the Board are included in the items and considered how they helped visit the Mandals operation in Norway.
Mandals Chairmans Statement on page 5 and in the towards the strategic goals of the Group: was acquired at the start of the year under activities of the Nomination Committee on review and has been a very successful page 31.
Other than as noted, there were no approved the disposal of a non-core acquisition for AEP and the Group.
other changes to the Board in the year.
business in Sweden: These visits help to broaden and deepen the approved the succession plans and Governance and compliance visits non-executive directors knowledge and appointments for two senior management Vanda Murray and I met with several major roles and changes to the Group Executive understanding of the Groups businesses.
shareholders during the year to discuss Committee: corporate governance, remuneration and Initiatives and activities shareholder engagement.
We will continue to reviewed divisional strategic and The Board completed the external Board offer to meet with our major shareholders and operational performance: evaluation process which was started towards the proxy voting agencies from time to time to the end of the previous financial year.
Details of considered Group financial performance ensure that we maintain an open and clear against budget, forecast and market the evaluation are given on page 33. dialogue with our shareholders.
These expectations: and meetings have provided an opportunity for We considered the changes to remuneration received a report on the design and both the Company and major shareholders to reporting under the BIS proposals which will implementation of the new UK defined gain insight, mutual understanding and become mandatory for our year ending 31 contribution pension plan.
comfort over the corporate governance August 2014.
We also reviewed the changes to policies in operation at Fenner.
The meetings the UK Corporate Governance Code which we This report sets out in more detail what we are entirely separate to shareholder meetings will adopt in the next reporting year.
have done in the year, how we have applied Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 29 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results the Principles of the Code, including any considers senior management management and determine the levels of areas of divergence from the Code, and what appointments: and remuneration for the executive directors.
The report also approves Group policies.
Vanda Murray is the Senior Independent explains how the Board and its Committees The Board has formal Board meetings Director and her role, amongst other matters, are structured and highlights changes to the throughout the year to deal with prescribed is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman Board during the year.
and serve as an intermediary for the other matters and to receive the reports of the executive directors.
Between formal directors as necessary.
The Senior Independent Compliance with the provisions of meetings, the Chairman and non-executive Director is available to shareholders and the Code attends the meetings with the corporate directors have access to the executive The Board reviewed the requirements of the governance heads of major shareholders directors and the Group Company Secretary Code and has complied with the provisions and meet with the members of the Executive alongside the Chairman.
The visits to corporate and spirit of the Code.
Day-to-day governance heads are separate to the analyst and shareholder meetings that the executive This Corporate Governance report should be management and operational matters are delegated to a duly authorised Executive directors attend and help to foster the read in conjunction with the Business Review Committee comprising senior executives, relationship between the Company and its on pages 5 to 26, Other Statutory Information shareholders, help the Company better on pages 37 to 39 and the Board while other specific Board level matters are understand the requirements of its major Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 48.
The delegated to sub-committees of the Board.
Details of the composition and purpose of shareholders and allow shareholders to have information required under Rule 7 of the these delegated Committees are set out on access to the Company to raise concerns or Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the issues or to confirm that they are happy with Financial Conduct Authority is included on pages 30 to 32. the performance of the Company and the way it pages 37 to 39.
Responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief is being governed.
These meetings take place Executive Officer Leadership on a regular basis.
Invitations are extended to The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Our approach to corporate governance the proxy voting agencies as well as major Officer are separate and distinct and codified Strong governance and controls are expected shareholders, although not all organisations in a written description of specific throughout the Group from the Board down.
take up the offer of a meeting.
The principal responsibility of The Board equally expects all Group There have been three independent nonthe Chairman is for the leadership and operations to share the same vision, values effectiveness of the Board while the principal executive directors on the Board throughout the and standards of governance.
David Buttfield was a non-independent, responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer particularly important in a Group that non-executive director until the conclusion of are for the operational performance of the promotes a culture of entrepreneurial Group, promoting a strong health and safety the AGM on 16 January 2013.
The non-executive leadership, encompassing autonomy and directors have broad and valuable experience, ethos and communicating the expectations of accountability.
depth of knowledge and complementary skills the Board in relation to the Companys The performance of the operations and the and are independent in character and culture, values and behaviours.
management teams is reviewed by the Board judgment.
There are no known relationships or The role of the Chairman via regular reports, meetings and circumstances which are likely to affect, or Mark Abrahams continues to fulfil the role of presentations and the Board plays a key role in could appear to affect, their judgment.
a non-executive Chairman professionally and reviewing strategy, risk and the management properly, being mindful of promoting strong The role of the Committees of risk.
Shareholders requirements are also and effective governance and preserving the managed by the Board and it acts as a conduit Remuneration Committee culture of the Company.
The presence of three between shareholders and operations to independent non-executive directors ensures ensure that their interests are aligned.
The remuneration policy of the Company that no one individual has unfettered powers is set out in the Board Remuneration Role and responsibilities of the Board in terms of decision making or Board Report on pages 40 to 48 One of the primary roles of the Board is to direction.
The Chairman sets the overall tone provide strong leadership which in turn and promotes strong leadership resulting in Responsibilities enables the executive directors to give an effective and cohesive Board, he fosters The Committee reviews legislation and effective management and oversight to the the vision, values, governance standards and guidance and considers shareholders operations to promote the long-term ethical behaviour of the Company and opinions relating to remuneration practices objectives and strategy of the Group.
The encourages an atmosphere of openness and and reporting requirements on behalf of the Board ensures that there are highly competent invites robust and constructive debate around Board, with input from external advisors, and professional management teams in place the Board table.
The Chairman sets the Board where necessary, and the Group Company around the Group, with robust controls and agenda, chairs the meetings and ensures that Secretary.
It is also consulted on the granting financial and commercial expertise to ensure directors receive timely and clear information to certain employees of an executive cash the long-term success of the Company.
and maintains close contact with Board long-term incentive plan with performance members and the Company Secretary.
measures aligned with growth in the Specific matters are reserved for the Boards underlying earnings per share of the Company consideration under a formal schedule which The role of the non-executive directors over a three year measurement period.
is reviewed on an annual basis.
Under that The non-executive directors bring schedule the Board: independence of mind and a breadth of Remuneration Committee governance complementary skills and experience to the Terms of Reference set out the Committees reviews trading performance and business Board.
Their role is to engender constructive role and duties.
The Chief Executive Officer, if strategy: debate and challenge during Board invited to attend, does not participate in any approves significant capital expenditure discussions and help develop strategy.
They decision in relation to his own remuneration.
including acquisitions and disposals: scrutinise the performance of management, The Committee has the power to request the manages relations and communication satisfy themselves on the integrity of the attendance at meetings of any director or with shareholders: financial systems, controls and risk Group employee as considered appropriate.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 30 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued The Remuneration Committee received advice merits, skills, experience, knowledge and engineer, and John, as a former finance during the year from AON Hewitt in relation to suitability for the role regardless of gender, director, have extensive experience in the Performance Share Plan.
AON Hewitt has ethnicity or religious beliefs.
The overall aim of companies that operate globally.
In addition, John has considerable experience in public no other connection with the Company.
the Committee is to maintain a Board with the companies.
right balance of skills and experience to help Activities govern and lead the Company.
The Committee reviewed the new The Committee will be giving consideration to the reappointment of the Chairman as he will remuneration reporting requirements and Nomination Committee governance complete three years of service at the end of further details of the Committees work are The Committee generally meets at least twice set out in the Board Remuneration Report on February 2014. a year and has the power to request the pages 40 to 48. attendance at meetings of any director or Terms of reference of the Committees of the Group employee as considered appropriate.
Board Audit Committee The terms of reference of the Audit, Activities The work, responsibilities and Remuneration and Nomination Committees During the year, the Committee reviewed and governance of the Audit Committee are reviewed at least annually and are recommended the reappointment of both Alan are set out on pages 35 to 36 available to view on the Groups website at Wood and John Sheldrick as non-executive www.
com or upon request to the Group directors: neither of whom took part in the Nomination Committee Company Secretary.
discussions relating to their own Responsibilities reappointment.
The Committee believes that Terms of reference set out the Nomination Role of the Executive Committee both Alan and John have demonstrated over Committees role and duties.
The Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the adheres to the Group Diversity Statement when their initial three year tenures that they had Chief Executive Officer and consists of the two recruiting candidates to the Board.
Although the skills, experience and knowledge required executive directors, the Group Company specific diversity targets are not set, each by the Company to maintain a suitable fit and Secretary and seven members of the Groups candidate is assessed on their own individual balance to the Board.
Both Alan, as a former senior management including senior How are we structured to ensure good, strong governance?
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Executive Committee Role Role Role Role Responsible for the oversight of the Responsible for determining the Responsibilities include reviewing the Responsibilities include day-to-day Companys financial reporting, internal remuneration packages of the executive composition of the Board, the management of the Group and controls and risk management, directors and other senior executives identification and nomination of operational matters.
managing the relationship with fraud and advises on executive remuneration candidates to fill Board vacancies and detection and reporting and policy issues, as well as reviewing the considering succession planning for all whistleblowing reporting and the appropriateness of the remuneration Board positions and senior executives.
The Committee administers the effectiveness of the external auditors.
Membership Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Committee Chairman Committee Chairman John Sheldrick Alan Wood Mark Abrahams Nicholas Hobson Non-executive directors Non-executive directors Non-executive directors Executive director Alan Wood Vanda Murray Vanda Murray Richard Perry Vanda Murray John Sheldrick Alan Wood John Sheldrick Other members Group Company Secretary: Executive director Debra Bradbury Nicholas Hobson Managing Directors of operations: David Landgren Leonard Casey Allen Cubell John Pratt Edwin Have Karen West Corporate Development Director: Richard Morello Others who are invited to attend from time to time External auditors Chairman Group Finance Director Group Business Risk Manager Chairman Chief Executive Officer Group Company Secretary Group HSE Coordinator Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director External advisors as required Director of Strategic Planning and Group Finance Director Group Company Secretary Investor Relations Group Company Secretary Independent external advisors Group HR Development Director Group Financial Controller External advisors as required Group Treasurer and Head of Tax Group Business Risk Manager Senior Internal Auditor Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 31 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results executives from the operations.
The Executive Appointments to the Board key members of the management team from Committee meets at least six times a year The Nomination Committee manages Board health, safety and environment, finance, tax and deals with the daily management of the appointments and agrees the candidate and treasury, risk management, business Group through powers delegated to it by the specification, which sets out the type of skills, development and human resources.
The Committee is responsible for: experience, qualifications and knowledge a Board appointees are given a tailored induction helping to develop and execute strategy: preferred candidate should ideally have: this is pack along with an explanation of different overseeing and managing the operational, agreed and discussed with external areas of the Group.
financial and safety performance of the independent recruitment consultants.
The The Chairman, via the Group Company Group: identifying and managing risk: and Board considers diversity, including gender, Secretary, ensures that information is playing an instrumental part in identifying and when recruiting new candidates and a Board submitted to the Board and its Committees in managing acquisitions in conjunction with Diversity Statement has been put in place.
All a timely manner so that all documents, papers, local management teams.
candidates are chosen on merit, against the briefing notes, proposals and financial objective criteria set in the candidate Effectiveness information can be reviewed ahead of meetings specification, regardless of race, gender or to enable the Board to discharge its duties Composition of the Board religious beliefs and therefore in line with the proficiently.
Board papers are issued The Board comprises the non-executive Board Diversity Statement.
The principal electronically over a secure web based portal Chairman, three non-executive directors, the concern of the Nomination Committee is to Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance which improves the timeliness and portability ensure all candidates are of appropriate Director and it is supported by the Group of information to the Board.
experience and ability and fit for the role.
The balance of Board does not intend to set specific diversity The Group Company Secretary is available to independence on the Board is carefully targets because it could fetter the ability to all Board members.
She is responsible for maintained and it continues to have the appoint the best candidate based on merit ensuring that the Board follows procedures, appropriate balance of skills, experience, alone which would be against Board and providing information, guidance and advice as independence and knowledge necessary for Group philosophy.
Board succession is borne well as ensuring that the Board members are the operation of an effective and robust Board.
in mind and discussed as part of the process.
kept up to date on governance, regulations, The non-executive directors have extensive Commitment development and best practice.
experience at executive and non-executive All Board members are expected to be able to Board level of running international industrial The Board has access to independent devote sufficient time to the Company to engineering companies and bring these skills professional advice at the Companys expense discharge their responsibilities effectively.
to bear at Board meetings.
The current Board should they require it to discharge their duties.
Board members are expected to attend all is comprised of five male directors and one main Board and Committee meetings and female director.
Ensuring an effective Board have sufficient time available to prepare for The Board believes that maintaining the right Biographies of the Board, setting out their such meetings.
Executive directors cannot balance of skills, experience, knowledge and current appointments and experience, are hold more than one non-executive independence is crucial in maintaining an set out in The Board on pages 27 to 28 directorship in a FTSE 100 company although effective Board and it is confident that the currently neither of the executive directors current Board structure and membership holds such a FTSE 100 role.
Board members interact well with each other and have a high regard Development, information and support for each other.
They also interact with the New Board appointments receive a full, Independence wider management team thereby helping to tailored induction when joining the Company, ensure that all Board members are able to which includes one on one meetings with the Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director make meaningful and cohesive contributions and Group Company Secretary as well as with to Board discussions and decisions.
33% 50% Meetings of the Board The attendance of each director at Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee meetings is set out below.
17% Non-executive Audit Remuneration Nomination director Independent non-executive directors Board Committee Committee Committee meetings Non-independent directors Chairman Number of meetings during the year 63 3 2 2 Gender Chairman 17% M S Abrahams 6 3 3 22 Executive directors N M Hobson 6 3 3 2 n a R J Perry 6 3 2 0 n a Non-executive directors 83% V Murray 63 3 2 2 D F Buttfield up to 16 January 2013 2 1 1 00 A J Wood 63 3 1 2 Male Female J N Sheldrick 63 3 1 2 By invitation Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 32 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued Board evaluation briefing on the Group operations worldwide central review and approval procedures in An externally facilitated Board evaluation and its markets and divisions.
respect of major areas of risk such as programme was concluded in December 2012 acquisitions and disposals, litigation, Constructive use of the AGM and was carried out by an independent treasury management, taxation and Before the formal commencement of the consultant, Dr Stuart Slatter, formerly a environmental issues: AGM, there is a presentation to the attending professor at London Business School.
Dr shareholders by the Chief Executive Officer a clear management structure with wellSlatter had previously worked with the and Group Finance Director, following which defined lines of responsibility and the Company on strategy workshops and shareholders are invited to ask questions.
At appropriate levels of delegation: seminars and his knowledge of Fenner was the conclusion of the formal business of the very helpful in the facilitation of the Board regular review of the Groups operating AGM, all members of the Board make evaluation process.
units by operational and executive themselves available to answer questions.
management and monthly reports from Dr Slatter met separately with each member In relation to the AGM: the senior managing directors: of the Board including the Group Company Secretary before a Group meeting to explore separate resolutions are proposed for a structured process for appraising and Board dynamics, behaviour, effectiveness, each substantially separate issue authorising capital projects which cohesiveness, composition, expertise, Board including the receipt of the Annual includes clearly defined authorisation governance, Board processes, adequacy and Report: levels: projects are subject to postcompleteness of Board papers and the investment appraisals: proxy forms allow shareholders to direct effectiveness and structure of the Committees their proxy vote either for or against the well established consolidation and of the Board.
resolution or to withhold their vote: reporting systems for both the statutory The evaluation highlighted how trust, and monthly management accounts: the proxy count is available at the AGM in confidence and understanding had developed monthly, half yearly and annual financial respect of each resolution after it has between the Board members and how the results are prepared by the consolidation been dealt with on a show of hands: strength of the relationships had been forged.
team and reviewed by management, with financial reports distributed to all Board the Notice of Meeting, the Annual Report For the year under review, an internal members: and any other related papers are made evaluation process has been started by the available to shareholders more than one Chairman but will not conclude until after the comprehensive budgeting systems with month before the meeting: and publication of the Annual Report.
an annual budget approved by the Board: monthly results are reported against shareholders are invited to ask questions Relations with shareholders budget and revised forecasts for the year during the AGM as well as having an Communicating with shareholders are prepared regularly: opportunity to meet the Board before and The Company continues to engage in regular after the formal meeting.
an internal programme of monitoring dialogue with its major shareholders, private visits by the internal audit team, as client brokers and also with private investors Conflicts agreed with the Audit Committee, reviews at the AGM.
There are regular face to face The statutory duties for directors relating to the compliance of each operating unit meetings throughout the year with major conflicts of interest are set out in the with the Group's standard internal shareholders along with briefings with Companies Act 2006.
No conflicts arose financial control procedures: brokers and analysts.
While most meetings during the year and the Board continues to are conducted by the Chief Executive Officer monitor events with a view to ensuring any competition compliance programmes are and Group Finance Director, there are also conflicts are handled appropriately.
in place in several jurisdictions: meetings between shareholder compliance and governance departments and the Internal control compliance policies are applied including Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
a Code of Business Conduct, an AntiIn accordance with the requirements of the All Board members understand that they have Code and the recommendations of the bribery & Corruption Policy and a Whistleblowing Policy: and responsibility for engendering and Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the maintaining good relations and directors can confirm that, after having a programme of business risk reviews communications with shareholders.
Nonreviewed the effectiveness of the control with operational management focusing on executive directors can request to be present systems and arrangements, no significant non-financial controls and risk at meetings with major shareholders and will changes to material risks, control failings or management.
be available to attend meetings as requested weaknesses have been identified that resulted by major shareholders.
While the Statement of directors directors are responsible for the Groups responsibilities Shareholder views and comments are system of internal control, like any system of communicated to the Board.
The Board also The directors are responsible for preparing internal control, it can only provide reasonable receives copies of all analyst and broker the Annual Report, the Board Remuneration and not absolute assurance against material reports.
Report and the financial statements in misstatement or loss.
accordance with applicable law and A new Group website was launched during the Key procedures within the internal control regulations.
year which has enhanced shareholder structure are: information and gives more clarity on the Company law requires the directors to Group and its operations.
The website the identification of major business and prepare financial statements for each includes analyst presentations, the current insurance risks faced by the Groups financial year.
Under that law the directors share price, regulatory announcements, operations, by both the Board and senior have prepared the Group financial statements financial performance information, management, and the determination of in accordance with International Financial shareholder information and an investor the most appropriate course of action to Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by relations contact address.
It also includes a deal with these risks: the European Union and the parent company Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 33 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, United Kingdom Generally Accepted give a true and fair view of the assets, Accounting Practice United Kingdom liabilities, financial position and profit of Accounting Standards and applicable law.
the Group: and Under company law the directors must not the Business Review contained on pages approve the financial statements unless they 5 to 26 includes a fair review of the are satisfied that they give a true and fair view development and performance of the of the state of affairs of the Group and the business and the position of the Group, Company and of the profit or loss of the Group together with a description of the for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Mark Abrahams state whether IFRS as adopted by the Chairman European Union and applicable United 13 November 2013 Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Board Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board believes it meets the Code provision of presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects via its Annual Report, Half Yearly Financial Report, Interim Management Statements and through its periodic analyst and shareholder presentations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in The Board on pages 27 to 28 and who remain in office, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 34
