55 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairmans Statement Statement of Compliance In accordance with the recommendation of the UK Corporate In Accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R Governance Code the Code, I wish to make a few points by way During the year to 31 December 2013 the Company complied with of introduction to the Corporate Governance Report.
all relevant provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, to which it is subject.
The Ferrexpo Board remains committed to good corporate governance practices, in its management of the affairs of the Group The Code establishes principles of good governance in five areas: and in its accountability to shareholders, and keeps under review Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration, the Groups own policies and procedures in these areas.
This and Relations with Shareholders.
This report explains how commitment stems from the conviction that good governance is not these principles were applied, with the exception of those relating only important for its own sake and because it is required of us, to Directors remuneration which are included in the Remuneration but is also important in sustaining the Companys success over the Report on pages 63 to 76. longer term, by helping to preserve shareholder value and, through careful attention to stakeholder interests, maintaining the social The Groups auditor has reviewed those parts of this statement licence to operate.
which it is required to review under the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
As detailed in this report, the Directors Report and the reports of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, the Group has Leadership and Effectiveness implemented an effective corporate governance framework and has The Board established Board Committees, internal procedures and Group The Board is composed of a Non-executive Chairman: Michael policies which are considered vital for the proper management of Abrahams: two Executive Directors: Kostyantin Zhevago, Chief the Group and good governance of Ferrexpo as an international Executive Officer CEO, and Christopher Mawe, Chief Financial business.
The Board and management of the Group have a policy of Officer CFO : and five Non-executive Directors.
Oliver Baring is the conducting all business affairs in a fair and transparent manner and Senior Independent Director.
The other Non-executive Directors are of maintaining high ethical standards in dealings with all relevant Lucio Genovese, Wolfram Kuoni, Ihor Mitiukov and Mike Salamon.
The aim of all this is to ensure that the Board discharges properly its duty to the shareholders to challenge and hold to Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set account the executive management, as well as advising and out on pages 52 and 53, and details of their membership of Board assisting them.
This means that the balance of skills and experience Committees are set out on pages 58 and 59.
A summary of the roles on the Board and its Committees is critical.
It is subject to regular of the Chairman, the CEO and the Senior Independent Director is set review, and was also considered as part of the Board evaluation out below.
that was concluded at the beginning of 2013, externally facilitated by Prism Cosec this process is described in more detail later in The structure and business of the Board are designed to ensure that this report.
the Board focuses its attention on the strategy, management, governance and control issues which are its ultimate responsibility.
As we indicated in last years report, in 2013 we embarked on a The Board has a formal schedule of matters which sets out the search for new Non-executive Directors, with a view to making new matters requiring Board approval and specifically reserved to it for appointments and retiring current Directors from 2014 onwards.
decision such as approving the Group strategy and budget, annual Executive search consultants Spencer Stuart, who have no other and long-term capital expenditure plans, and contracts for more connection with the company have been appointed for this purpose.
The Board is responsible for Ferrexpo already has a well-diversified and well-balanced Board in setting the Groups objectives and policies, providing effective terms of nationality, professional background, and industry leadership and control required for a public company and for experience.
We are anxious to ensure that the skills, expertise and approving the Group strategy, budgets, business plans and major diversity, including gender diversity, on the Board are maintained and capital expenditure.
It also monitors financial performance and if possible increased.
We will be reporting on progress with this critical business issues.
Major project approvals, contract awards search as it occurs.
and key policies and procedures also require the approval of the Board.
Michael Abrahams Chairman Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate Committees to ensure compliance with the Companies Act 2006, FCA Listing Rules and the Code.
It is the Information Pursuant to the EU Takeover Directive responsibility of the CEO and the Executive Committee to manage The Company has provided the additional information required the day-to-day running of the Group.
The Board is supported by the by the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
7 of the UK Listing Executive Committee which meets approximately monthly.
All of the Authority Directors interests in shares: appointment and information that is submitted to the Board by management is replacement of Directors: powers of the Directors: restrictions on reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee.
voting rights and rights regarding control of the Company in the Directors Report and the Remuneration Report.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied 56 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Time Commitment Board on governance issues and for ensuring, with the Chairman, The role of a Non-executive Director is an increasingly demanding that information reaches Board members in a timely fashion, so that one: the Non-executive Directors of Ferrexpo would normally expect they are alerted to issues and have time to reflect on them properly to spend two days a month, on average, on Ferrexpos affairs, and before deciding how to address them.
Directors have the right to in the case of the Senior Independent Director, the Committee request that any concerns they have are recorded in the appropriate Chairmen and in particular the Chairman of the Board, considerably committee or Board minutes.
The Board met five times during the reporting period.
Attendance Board Balance and Independence by Directors at Board meetings and Board Committee meetings is The Board considers that its membership of two Executive Directors, shown on pages 58 and 59.
All Board meetings are held in a Non-executive Chairman and five Non-executive Directors, four Switzerland.
of whom are deemed by the Board to be independent, is of an appropriate size and structure to manage the Group in an effective How the Board Operates and successful manner.
It also considers that no single Director can Chairman, CEO and Senior Independent Director dominate or unduly influence decision making.
The Relationship The roles of the Chairman and CEO are held by different individuals.
Agreement with Kostyantin Zhevago specifically deals with decision The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and CEO has making.
More details are given below.
been clearly established in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria on The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring independence of Non-executive Directors under the Code.
In the its effectiveness, setting its agenda and ensuring effective opinion of the Board, all the Non-executive Directors bring communication with shareholders.
The Chairman also ensures that independence of judgement and character to the Board and to the there is a constructive relationship between the Executive and Board Committees on which they sit.
The Board considers that, Non-executive Directors.
From time to time the Chairman holds with the exception of Mike Salamon who until September 2012 meetings with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive represented a significant shareholder, all of the Non-executive Directors present.
Directors as at the date of this report are independent of the Group within the terms of provision B.
The Chairmans other current responsibilities are set out in the biographical notes on page 52.
There has been no increase in those Lucio Genovese and Wolfram Kuoni are required to devote more commitments during the reporting period.
time to their duties as Non-executive Directors of Ferrexpo AG than had been expected at the time of their appointment.
The Board The role of the CEO is to provide leadership of the executive team, therefore increased their remuneration with effect from 1 January to develop proposals for the Board to consider, and to oversee and 2009 as set out in the Remuneration Report on page 71.
Mr Zhevago has no other reaching this decision the Board also concluded, in the light of the directorships of quoted companies.
supervisory and non-executive nature of their duties as Directors of Ferrexpo AG, that both Mr Genovese and Mr Kuoni remained The Senior Independent Director, Oliver Baring, in conjunction independent in character and judgement, as defined by provision with the other independent Non-executive Directors, assists in B.
The Board believes this still to be the case.
communications and meetings with shareholders concerning corporate governance matters.
He also chairs the Nominations Lucio Genovese was appointed as Ferrexpos representative on the Committee and the Committee of Independent Directors.
At least board of Ferrexpos 15.5% investee company Ferrous Resources once a year, the Senior Independent Director meets the Nonon 4 March 2014.
This is in a non-executive capacity, and the Board executive Directors, without the Chairman present, to evaluate the considers that it does not affect his independence as a member of Chairmans performance.
The Senior Independent Director is the Ferrexpo Board.
available to discuss with shareholders any issues that the Chairman has been unable to resolve to shareholders satisfaction.
Kostyantin Zhevago is a beneficiary of The Minco Trust which owns 100% of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. the major shareholder in the Group.
All Non-executive Directors Consequently he, The Minco Trust and Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. have The Non-executive Directors, acting either as the Board or as one entered into a Relationship Agreement with the Company to ensure of its Committees see below, approve budgets: discuss and that the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently, contribute to strategic proposals and approve strategy: monitor the that transactions and relationships between the Group, Fevamotinico integrity, consistency and effectiveness of financial information, S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust and Mr Zhevago are at arms length and on internal controls and risk management systems: monitor normal commercial terms, and that there shall be at all times a managements execution of strategy against agreed targets and majority of Directors independent of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco determine their remuneration accordingly: and monitor executive Trust and Mr Zhevago on the Board the Relationship Agreement.
succession planning for Board succession planning, see Nominations Committee Report below.
57 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 The Board monitors compliance with the Relationship Agreement Professional development and training are provided in a number through the Committee of Independent Directors see under of ways, including updates given to the Board on changes and Conflicts of Interest below.
proposed changes in laws and regulations affecting the Group.
Site visits to ensure Directors are familiar with the Groups operations are Conflicts of Interest held at least annually, and Directors may visit the operations of the A procedure is in place to deal with Directors conflicts of interest Group independently to the extent that they feel this is necessary.
and the recording, reporting and, where appropriate, approval of During the year, as in previous years, the Board spent two days related party transactions and review of relevant disclosures.
This visiting the site in Ukraine.
procedure is in line with published guidance, the Companys Articles of Association and the provisions in section 175 of the Companies All Directors may take independent professional advice at the Act 2006 on conflicts of interest.
Schedules of a Directors actual or expense of the Group in the furtherance of their duties.
On potential conflicts and related party transactions have been compiled appointment, all Directors are advised of their duties, responsibilities based on disclosures made by the Director.
These are updated and liabilities as a Director of a public listed company.
In addition and reviewed on a regular basis by the Executive Committee, the an appropriate induction programme is provided to a Director on Executive Related Party Matters Committee ERPMC which is appointment taking into consideration the individual qualifications composed of certain members of the Executive Committee and and experience of the Director.
other members of senior management and the Committee of Independent Directors CID.
Any changes to the schedules are Performance Evaluation noted at the beginning of the next Board meeting.
The CID has Performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees has, until delegated authority to carefully consider and if deemed appropriate 2012, been carried out internally by the Chairmen of these bodies.
in the circumstances approve on behalf of the Board transactions In line with the Code it is the intention to hold an  where there is a risk of a conflict of interests.
This procedure assessment once every three years.
The first externally facilitated operates effectively, and the Group undertakes to follow emerging evaluation was conducted in 2013 and is reported on below.
best practice in this area.
Choice of Evaluator The Board has established the CID to consider and, if appropriate, The choice of external evaluator was a key consideration for approve related party transactions and transactions where there is a Ferrexpo.
The brief was to find a company used to dealing with risk of a conflict of interest to the extent foreseen within Chapter 11 Board members who would provide a service that addressed the of the Listing Rules whether in relation to Mr Zhevago or any other specific requirements of the evaluation.
Prism Cosec Prism was Director, and to consider any matters referred to it concerning the chosen to conduct the process due to its flexibility in approach and operation of the Relationship Agreement and ensure that decisions ability to engage meaningfully with the Directors.
Prism assisted are taken objectively in the Companys interest.
This Committee also Ferrexpo at the time of the Companys listing in 2007.
Its dealings oversees anti-bribery compliance matters on behalf of the Board.
with Ferrexpo are now minimal and consist of providing some ad hoc advice, mainly on governance issues.
However, Prisms knowledge Appointments to the Board and Re-election of the background and development of Ferrexpo was also an Under its terms of reference the Nominations Committee is important factor in enabling it to carry out an effective and wellresponsible for leading the process for appointments to the Board.
The process for election and re-election of Directors is set out in the Directors Report on page 77.
Evaluation Focus It was agreed that the evaluation should be specifically aimed at Information and Professional Development areas where previous evaluations had highlighted points for review.
Directors receive briefing notes and reports for their consideration in These fell under four main headings: advance of each Board meeting, including reports on the Groups Board dialogue operations to ensure that they are up to date on the latest Board and Committee structure developments and are able to make fully informed decisions.
These Management of related party transactions notes and reports take into account the factors set out in section 172 Management of shareholder interests of the Companies Act 2006 Directors duty to promote the success of the Company, which are considered by the Executive Committee In addition there was a review of the main Board and Committee when making any proposals and recommendations to the Board.
Decisions made by the Board are set within the framework of the Directors statutory duty to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
58 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Evaluation Process Board Committees The Board has a number of Committees consisting of certain Office based review of Board and Committee documents, Directors, and in the case of the Executive Committee and CSR policies and procedures Committee, certain senior managers, to which specific responsibilities have been delegated and for which written terms of reference have been agreed.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and CSR Committees are available for inspection on the Groups website at www.
Agenda of topics prepared in conjunction with the Chairman for Membership of the various Committees, including the Chairman of discussion with individual Directors each Committee, is shown below.
The Board periodically reviews the membership of its Committees to ensure that Committee membership is refreshed and balance and Interviews conducted with each of the Directors in person or by diversity maintained.
This was last done in 2012. telephone, finishing with the Chairman The Group provides the Committees with sufficient resources to undertake their duties, including access to the Company Secretary.
Tables of attendance of members of the Board and its principal Preliminary report prepared of findings and recommendations, Committees at meetings during the financial period together with a discussed with the Chairman and Company Secretary summary of the terms of reference are set out below.
Board Five Board meetings were held during the year.
Attendance Final publication and review by the Board as a whole Board members record M Abrahams Non-executive Chairman 5 5 K Zhevago Chief Executive Officer 5 5 C Mawe Chief Financial Officer 5 5 Main Recommendations O Baring Senior Independent Non-executive Overall Summary Director 5 5 The current Board processes are working effectively and well.
The L Genovese Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 Board and Committee structure and roles are well understood and W Kuoni Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 their duties effectively carried out.
Oversight of related party I Mitiukov Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 transactions is working effectively.
Relations with independent M Salamon Non-executive Director 5 5 shareholders are dealt with constructively.
Theme Actions taken to be taken Audit Committee Succession planning A Board renewal strategy has been formulated Five Audit Committee meetings were held during the year.
for the Board and agreed and is in the process of being implemented see the Chairmans Statement on Attendance Committee members record Corporate Governance on page 55 W Kuoni Chairman 5 5 Development of Review of plans to develop next tier of O Baring 5 5 executive management management L Genovese 5 5 CSR Committee Review of operation of the Corporate Safety I Mitiukov 5 5 and Social Responsibility Committee the CSR Committee in order to ensure Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required to meet maximum effectiveness at least three times a year at the most appropriate times in the Governance policies Continue to review and update governance reporting and audit process.
The Committee monitors the integrity of and procedures policies and procedures in line with best the financial statements of the Group, including its annual and interim practice reports, interim management statements, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing the significant financial reporting Proposals for next years evaluation issues and judgements that they contain and satisfying itself that The evaluation in 2014 will be carried out internally.
It is proposed to the Annual Report sent to shareholders is fair, balanced and review the action points highlighted from the 2013 evaluation to understandable.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for ensure they have been addressed.
reviewing internal controls and risk management systems, whistleblowing procedures and internal audit processes, and oversees the The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-executive relationship with the external auditors.
Directors have evaluated, and will continue to monitor, the performance of the Chairman.
59 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Remuneration Committee Committee for reviewing managements investigation of incidents or Three Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year.
accidents that occur in order to assess whether policy improvements are required.
Further details concerning the activities of the CSR Attendance Committee members record Committee are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 37.
L Genovese Chairman 3 3 W Kuoni 3 3 CID I Mitiukov 3 3 Five CID meetings were held during the year.
O Baring 3 3 Attendance Committee members record The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year, as O Baring Chairman 5 5 required by its terms of reference, and is responsible for reviewing M Abrahams 5 5 and approving all aspects of remuneration for the Executive L Genovese 5 5 Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Further details W Kuoni 5 5 concerning the Remuneration Committee are set out in the I Mitiukov 4 5 Remuneration Report on pages 64 and 70.
Nominations Committee The CID is composed of the Senior Independent Director Oliver One Nominations Committee meeting was held during the year.
Baring, the Chairman of the Board, and the three other Independent Directors.
The Committee considers and, if appropriate, authorises Attendance on behalf of the Board related party transactions within the terms of Committee members record Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and O Baring Chairman 1 1 otherwise ensures compliance with Chapter 11 and with the M Abrahams 1 1 Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. W Kuoni 1 1 Mr Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company.
The CID holds I Mitiukov 1 1 delegated authority to consider and, if appropriate, authorise K Zhevago 1 1 transactions where there is a risk of a conflict of interest of any member of the Board under the relevant section of the Companies Nominations Committee Report Act 2006.
The CID keeps under review the authorisation and approval The Nominations Committee meets at least once a year, as required process relating to such transactions which have previously been by its terms of reference.
The role of the Nominations Committee is reviewed in detail by the ERPMC see Conflicts of Interest above to identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates to and satisfies itself that Related Party Transactions have been properly fill Board vacancies, having due regard to the need for appropriate conducted on an arms length basis and, if not in the normal course balance and diversity including of gender on the Board.
of business, have been approved by UKLA, and that no disclosures have been omitted or misstated in the financial statements.
In accordance with the need for the non-executive membership of the Board to be refreshed from time to time, the Committee during The Committees terms of reference also cover the oversight of 2013 started the search for new Directors, with a view to making anti-bribery procedure implementation.
new appointments and retiring current Directors from 2014 onwards.
For further details, see the Chairmans Statement on Corporate The Executive Committee Governance on page 55.
The Executive Committee is a key decision making body of the Group.
Its members are detailed on page 54.
It is responsible for For diversity in the workplace, see Diversity in the Strategic Report managing and taking all material decisions relating to the Group on page 39. apart from those that are reserved for the entire Board.
It meets regularly during the year.
No meetings are held in the United CSR Committee Kingdom.
It is the responsibility of the Executive Committee to One CSR Committee meeting was held during the year.
ensure its duties are at all times set in the context of the requirements of the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
Attendance Committee members record The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility for the execution of Board-approved strategies for the Group, for B Maynard Chairman 1 1 ensuring that appropriate levels of authority are delegated to senior M Abrahams 1 1 management, for the review of organisational structures and for the V Lotous 1 1 development and implementation of Group policies.
K Zhevago 1 1 Accountability and Audit The CSR Committees role is to formulate and recommend to the Financial Reporting Board the Groups policy on corporate safety and social The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a fair, balanced responsibility issues as they affect the Groups operations.
In and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position particular it focuses on ensuring that effective systems and and prospects.
This assessment is primarily provided in the Strategic standards, procedures and practices are in place in the Group.
The Report contained in this Annual Report.
Statements of the respective CSR Committee is responsible in conjunction with the Executive responsibilities of the Directors and auditors are set out on pages 81 to 83.
60 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Audit Committee Report The Board has asked the Committee to state whether it considers The Code recommends that all members of the Audit Committee are the 2013 Annual Report to be fair, balanced and understandable: independent Non-executive Directors, and that at least one member the Committee confirms that it does so.
should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee complies with these requirements, and all members Internal Control and Risk Management of the Audit Committee are considered to possess appropriate The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of knowledge and skills.
Wolfram Kuoni, an independent Non-executive internal control, which includes risk management and reviewing its Director, is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The terms of reference effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, of the Audit Committee and attendance by members at its meetings evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the are outlined on page 58. achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to During the reporting period the Audit Committee met five times, meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is and its activities included: exposed, rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can Reviewing with Ernst & Young, the external auditors, the annual only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and interim financial statements and associated documents misstatement or loss.
and the preliminary results statement, ensuring that all material information was properly and clearly disclosed.
The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the Reviewing with Ernst & Young, the scope of the audit work effectiveness of these controls to the Audit Committee.
The Audit proposed for 2013 and audit fees.
Committee reviews these systems on an annual basis.
The day-toReviewing the risk matrix at each meeting, and discussing with day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the the Head of Internal Audit the internal audit plan and the findings Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the of the internal audit reviews conducted during the year.
Key risk and control issues are reviewed Reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management regularly by the Executive Committee.
Reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements.
On behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee has established a Reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditors, the quality process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks of their auditing work, their independence and the non-audit faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
This services they provided, and considering whether to recommend process was followed throughout 2013 and up to the date of their reappointment.
approval of this Annual Report.
The Group has also adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups system of internal Since the end of the reporting period the Committee has also control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
To assist in managing key considered the potential impact of recent political and economic internal risks, it has established a number of Group-wide disturbances in Ukraine on the financial statements.
procedures, policies and standards and has set up a framework for reporting matters of significance.
A statement on the Boards position regarding the Group as a going concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 79.
Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainties are set out in note 37 to the financial statements on pages 133 to 141.
See also In 2013 the significant issues addressed by the Committee in the Principal Risks section of the Strategic Report on pages 28 to 31 connection with the preparation of the Financial Statements were and Appendix 1 Subsidiary Risks on pages 147 and 148.
Ukrainian VAT receivable and associated provisions, the valuation of Ferrexpos investment in Ferrous Resources, and the reporting of The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Related Party Transactions.
The Committee discussed these matters Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of with management and the Auditors at intervals through the year.
The VAT situation was monitored monthly by management, and at its As a result of the continual review of internal control procedures, own meetings the Committee reviewed the balances of refunds paid several key elements have been established within the Group to and outstanding, with their expected periods of payment.
Ihor ensure a sound system of internal control which is described in Mitiukovs knowledge of the financial constraints facing the Ukrainian detail below.
authorities was also helpful to the Committee in reaching a decision.
These include: Related Party Transactions are covered by the Committee of Regular review of risk and identification of key risks at the Independent Directors procedure described on page 57.
The Audit Executive Committee which are reviewed by the Audit Committee Committee noted the auditors work in checking the disclosures in and by the Board.
Clearly defined organisational and reporting structure and limits of authority for transaction and investment decisions, including any Regarding the 15.5% investment in Ferrous Resources, the with related parties, applied to subsidiary companies including Committee reviewed the basis of classification as an  Poltava Mining FPM and Ferrexpo Yeristovo Mining sale asset, and the valuation, as disclosed in note 20 and note 37 to FYM, the key Ukrainian subsidiaries, and the First-DDSG Group the Financial Statements.
61 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Clearly defined information and financial reporting systems, Auditor Independence and Assessment of Audit Process including regular forecasts and a rigorous annual budgeting Effectiveness process with reporting against key financial and operational The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the milestones.
independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, Ernst Rigorous investment appraisal underpinned by the budgetary & Young, when performing their role in the Groups reporting to process, where capital expenditure limits are applied to delegated shareholders.
An Investment Committee an executive sub-committee meets The effectiveness of the audit process and the overall performance, once or twice a month to approve capital expenditures within independence and objectivity of the auditors are reviewed annually limits delegated by the Executive Committee and the Board.
by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of The Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC an management, and the outcome of this review is relayed to the executive sub-committee reviews financial information and relevant partners of Ernst & Young.
This review takes the form of an management accounts, and meets monthly.
assessment using a questionnaire of the auditors performance Clearly defined treasury policy monitored and applied in under various headings: the robustness of the audit, the quality of accordance with pre-set limits for investment and management of delivery, and the calibre of the audit team.
In assessing the the Groups liquid resources including a separate treasury effectiveness of the audit process, the Committee also took note of function.
the information regarding quality assurance processes contained in Internal audit by an in-house internal auditor based in Ukraine Ernst & Youngs 2013 Transparency Report, and the outcome of the see below who monitors, tests and improves internal controls FRCs Audit Quality Inspection of the firm, published in May 2013. operating within the Group at all levels and reports directly to the The Audit Committee also has regular discussions with the external CFO and the Audit Committee.
auditors, without management being present.
A standard accounting manual is used by the finance teams throughout the Group, which ensures that information is gathered The Audit Committee has approved separate policies in respect of and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production the provision of non-audit services and employment of former of the consolidated financial statements.
These policies ensure that the external A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent auditors are restricted to providing only those services which do not and detect material error and loss.
The policy on the provision of Anti-fraud measures through an independent department non-audit services prohibits the use of the auditors for the provision operating in the Groups key operating subsidiaries FPM and of transaction or payroll accounting, outsourcing of internal audit and FYM.
valuation of material financial statement amounts.
Any assignment A whistle-blowing policy is in place under which staff may in that is proposed to be given to the auditors above a value of confidence, via an independent, secure website, raise concerns US$500,000 must first be approved by the Audit Committee or its about financial or other impropriety.
The auditors are also expected to provide to the Audit Committee information about policies and processes for maintaining Treasury independence and monitoring compliance with relevant current Details of the Group treasury policy are referred to in the Strategic requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners Report on pages 9, 15, 28 to 31 and 35, and in the notes to the and staff, the level of fees that the Group pays in proportion to the financial statements on pages 133 to 141. overall fee income of the firm, and other regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviewed these arrangements during the year and Investment Proposals believes that they are still appropriate.
A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed Fees for audit-related and non-audit-related services performed by written proposals are submitted to the Investment and Executive the external auditors are shown in note 9 to the financial statements Committees and then if necessary to the Board for approval.
Internal Audit Recommendation on Reappointment of Auditors A Group-wide internal audit function has been established, and The Committee considered whether Ernst & Young should be operated during 2013 using an experienced internal auditor based in proposed for reappointment by the shareholders at the 2014 Annual Ukraine but independent of operational management, who reported General Meeting, or whether the audit should be put out to tender as directly to the CFO and the Audit Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the performance of Ernst & Young during the year and, taking into account their general An internal audit programme for 20122014, approved by the Audit satisfaction with the auditors and the rotation of audit partners in Committee, focuses on the areas of risk identified by the risk reviews 2012, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Board that Ernst carried out on an ongoing basis by the Executive Committee and the & Young should be proposed for reappointment for another year.
The Committee reviewed the progress of this plan with the Ernst & Young were appointed as auditors to the Company in June auditors and the Head of Internal Audit periodically during the year, 2007, prior to the Listing in London.
Under current FRC guidance, and were satisfied with the rigour of the audit projects and with the next audit tender would not be required until the 2022 year-end: managements response.
however, the Committee will continue to monitor the proposed requirements in relation to audit tendering and mandatory auditor rotation from the Competition Commission and the EU and will consider the appropriate response in due course.
62 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Implementation of Requirements of UK Bribery Act 2010 At the time of the introduction of the Bribery Act in July 2011, and following a thorough risk assessment and the establishment of due diligence procedures for business counterparties, all employees were informed and given instruction where necessary about the policies and procedures introduced in order to ensure compliance with the Act which took the form of the Group Policy on Bribery and Corruption.
The Board delegated responsibility for implementing the Policy and monitoring its effectiveness to an anti-bribery compliance officer currently the CFO, who reports to the CID at its meetings and makes any recommendations arising from the meetings to the full Board.
The training given in 2011 was repeated, and extended where appropriate to other employees, in 2013.
Relations with Shareholders The Board attaches great importance to effective communication with shareholders.
Executive Directors and senior executives have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, which include meetings following the announcement of the annual and interim results.
The Chairman, the CEO, the CFO, and the Head of Investor Relations meet major shareholders and analysts regularly to discuss performance, strategy and governance, and the Non-executive Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove, the Groups brokers, also provide regular reports to the Board on changes to the shareholdings of the Groups major investors.
Information about the views of major investors is provided to the Board on a regular basis by the CEO, the CFO and the Head of Investor Relations.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM each year to communicate with shareholders and welcomes their participation.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees normally attend the AGMs and are ready to answer questions from shareholders, as required.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The voting results of the AGM are available on the Companys website following the meeting.
Information on matters of interest to investors can be found on the Groups website at www.
The Board approved this report on 11 March 2014.
