Fidessa group plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report continued Nominations Committees report Membership, meetings and evaluation The Nominations Committee, which is chaired by John Hamer, comprises John Hamer, Philip Hardaker, Ron Mackintosh and Elizabeth Lake and is therefore compliant with the requirements of the Code.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and updated annually and are available at www.
The Committees main responsibilities are to advise and make recommendations to the Board on the following matters: the size, structure and composition of the Board: succession planning of Board members: the appointment of external consultants where appropriate: and the appointment of new directors and the re-appointment of existing directors.
Matters considered during the year During 2013, the Committee carried out the following work: Recruitment of Philip Hardakers replacement as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following an initial search process involving the alumni networks of the Big Four accountancy firms and individuals suggested by nonexecutive directors, the Committee recommended to the Board that a replacement be sought through the use of independent recruitment consultants, Russell Reynolds Associates.
The consultants have commenced the search process.
Throughout the selection process the Committee will be mindful of the recommendations made by Lord Davies in 2011 see below.
Recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of Ron Mackintosh as Senior Independent Director.
Gender diversity The Nominations Committees conclusions originally reported in 2012 continue to apply, namely that while diversity including gender diversity is important when reviewing the composition of the Board and possible new appointees, the single most important factor is to identify and recruit people based on merit.
The Nominations Committee continues to note that achieving gender diversity in certain sectors, including the technology sector, presents particular challenges when considering the profile of the available talent pool in those sectors.
Accordingly, the Board confirms that it is still not in favour of setting specific targets for Board representation to be achieved by particular dates.
The Nominations Committee will, however, ensure that appointed recruitment consultants observe Lord Davies recommendations when considering new appointments to the Board.
