Fidessa group plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report This section of the Annual Report outlines how the Board maintains high standards of corporate governance as well as providing a summary of how each of the Boards committees function.
As this is the first year the Annual Report contains expanded Directors Remuneration and Audit Committee reports, we have taken the opportunity to adjust the layout of the Annual Report.
The Board believes in good governance and recognises the importance of complying with the various aspects of the UK governance framework.
Crucial to good governance is a stable Board that contains the right balance of skills and experience: therefore, Board appointments are taken very seriously.
As previously notified to Fidessas largest shareholders, succession planning will continue into 2014 with the Nominations Committee seeking a successor to Philip Hardaker as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
This reflects his decision to step down as a non-executive director during 2014, following the appointment and handover to a new non-executive director after nine years of service to Fidessa.
The Nominations Committee report details the recruitment process.
The Board continues to welcome interaction with shareholders and I and the other non-executive directors are available for dialogue as an alternative to meetings with the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
John Hamer Chairman The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2013.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30th April 2014.
All sections of the Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors The Board currently comprises a Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
During 2014 Philip Hardaker will stand down as a non-executive director see Nominations Committee Report.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the non-executive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 54, Chairman John Hamer joined Fidessa in 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman in 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
