Fidessa group plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report continued Audit Committees report As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31st December 2013.
The Committee has focused on the integrity, completeness and clarity of financial reporting, the areas where judgements and estimates are required in the financial statements and the quality and effectiveness of audit processes to complement the other risk management activities.
There has been no significant change to these areas of focus during the year and the Committee will continue to monitor these areas.
Philip Hardaker Chairman of the Audit Committee Membership, meetings and evaluation The composition of the Committee has not changed in 2013 and comprises both financial and operational skills and experience.
The Committee is chaired by Philip Hardaker who, in line with the Code, has significant, recent and relevant financial experience as a former partner of KPMG and through his other current and recent appointments.
In addition to Philip, the Committee comprises Ron Mackintosh, Elizabeth Lake and Mark Foster.
Philip Hardaker will step down as Chairman of the Audit Committee and as a non-executive director during 2014 following the appointment of his successor.
The Chairman and executive directors were invited to attend for part of the meetings held by the Committee during the year.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and updated annually and are available at www.
The Committees main responsibilities are: to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor, review and monitor the external auditors performance, expertise, independence and objectivity along with the effectiveness of the audit process and its scope: to assist the Board in monitoring the integrity, completeness and clarity of the financial statements and ensuring the Annual Report is fair and balanced: to monitor the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices along with consistent treatment year to year: to monitor and review the internal financial controls and risk management systems: to monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal auditor together with the terms of reference, programme, scope of work and reports: and to review annually the environmental report, the overall results of ISO 9001:2000 TickIT compliance and the results of independent ISAE 3402 SSAE16 audits.
