Corporate governance On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate Board evaluation Governance Report for 2012 13.
The external headwinds we have In addition I am pleased to report that Independent Board Evaluation faced this year have been considerable.
These issues, together with IBE carried out a detailed and comprehensive review of the Boards the cancellation of the InterCity West Coast franchise and the capital performance, practices and procedures.
They observed the Board reorganisation that was announced in May 2013 have meant that the and Committees in action during October 2012.
All the Directors and Board has had to meet more frequently than it was scheduled, key personnel were subsequently interviewed by the team at IBE, sometimes at very short notice.
At these times it is more important who thereafter compiled a full report which was presented to the than ever that the Group maintains its commitment to the highest Board in December 2012.
The report indicated that the FirstGroup standards of corporate governance in respect of leadership, Board is changing both in composition and culture and is becoming effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with more effective whilst adopting a more challenging and professional shareholders as identified by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The arrival of new members has provided an opportunity to In this section of the report we provide details of our governance reset the culture which in turn will help the Board steer the Group structures and processes together with the actions we are taking through the period ahead.
It will continue to ensure that we have to enhance governance within the Group.
theright mix of capability and experience to deliver and drive the business going forward.
As previously announced, I have decided to step down as Chairman after 27 years with the Group following the appointment of my Remuneration successor.
Good governance is vital and the Board is mindful of the We appointed a new Chairman of the Remuneration Committee last need to ensure that my successor has the experience and integrity year and, as highlighted later in this report, I am confident that under necessary to ensure that the Group continues to apply the highest his leadership the Remuneration Committee will ensure that the standards going forward.
challenging targets set for the business going forward are properly reflected in the remuneration of our management team.
Board composition In my last report I mentioned the impending appointment of Chris No salary increase will be paid to the Executive Directors and no fee Surch as Group Finance Director.
He joined us on 1 September 2012 increase will be paid to the Non-Executive Directors for the financial year commencing 1 April 2013. and his strong financial leadership, considerable operational, strategic and international knowledge and experience of significant Group Employee Director business improvement programmes have already made an impact Our Group Employee Director has been in office now for 16 months.
on the running of the Group.
I was also delighted to welcome Brian Mick has proved a most effective and invaluable presence on the Wallace and Jim Winestock as Non-Executive Directors who joined Board and assists us in keeping in touch with issues affecting our Board on 1 August 2012.
Both Brian and Jim have already our employees.
brought their individual expertise in finance and operations in large and complex organisations to the Board and have made significant Corporate Governance Code contributions to the running of the Group.
The new Corporate Governance Code was adopted in September 2012.
Whilst this does not apply to us until the 2013 14 reporting year we will continue working to ensure that we will be fully compliant to the benefit of the Group and all our shareholders.
Martin Gilbert Chairman 54 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance The Company complies with all the main and supporting principles Balance and independence of good governance set out in section 1 of the UK Corporate In considering Director independence the Board has taken into Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in account the guidance provided by the Code.
The Board, having given June 2010 the Code.
thorough consideration to the matter, considers that David Begg, Colin Hood, Brian Wallace and Jim Winestock are independent.
The Board Whilst John Sievwright, our Senior Independent Director, has served Structure and responsibilities on the Board for over nine years, the Board has reviewed his record The Board currently consists of the Chairman, two Executive Directors and contribution.
He displays a breadth of experience, particularly in and six Non-Executive Directors.
Nick Chevis, who was not a member financial markets, and the Board firmly considers him to remain of the Board, attended all meetings as Acting Finance Director from independent within the definition of the Code.
Mick Barker is an April to September 2012 at which time Chris Surch was appointed employee of one of the Groups subsidiaries and therefore cannot as Group Finance Director.
During the year, the Board met 16 times beconsidered to be truly independent under the Code.
However, eight in the UK, two in the US and six by telephone conference call.
theBoard considers that it is beneficial for its employees to be Allmembers attended whilst they were Directors with the exception represented on the Board in this way as it enables important ofJim Winestock and David Begg who were each absent from two employee related issues to be raised at the highest level and allows meetings and Mick Barker and Chris Surch who were each absent for two way communication between the Board and employees.
Therefore, the Company complies with the Code provision that at During the year the Board set and reviewed the Companys objectives least one half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, is made up and strategy, reviewed the financial and operational performance of ofNon-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be each of the Groups business units, agreed and reviewed progress independent.
The Directors are satisfied that the Board possesses against the Groups annual budgets and set and reviewed on a regular the breadth of business, financial and international experience basis its longer term business plans.
In line with the matters specifically necessary to manage an organisation of the size and complexity reserved to it, it also approved the half year and full year financial ofthe Group effectively.
statements, financing arrangements, material capital commitments, relationships with regulatory authorities and the Groups operating Relations with shareholders and accounting policies.
The Group recognises the importance of regular communication with its shareholders.
The Annual Report and Accounts and a half The Board also discussed and reviewed the strategic disposal of yearly report are made available to all shareholders.
These reports non-core business assets, the issuance of a 325m 5.25% Bond, our are intended to provide a clear and balanced understanding of the new vision and values programme, succession planning and talent Groups operational performance, its financial results and prospects.
management, bids for the InterCity West Coast ICWC and Essex Thameside rail franchises and the subsequent cancellation of the Investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, ICWC competition and pause in all franchise bids and the capital appointments, etc.
via regulatory news and press releases and structure of the Group.
There is also regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year and general presentations are On 1 August 2012 Brian Wallace and Jim Winestock were appointed made by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director following to the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
the announcement of the half year and full year results.
Other Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, attend meetings On 1 September 2012 Chris Surch was appointed to the Board as withmajor shareholders as requested, and have done so in Group Finance Director.
relationto a number of issues during the year.
Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback from investors are submitted to the Board and senior management.
University education Background Accountancy 4 Finance 3 Law 1 Transport 3 Academic 1 Energy 1 Business Administration 1 Logistics 1 Engineering 1 Fund management 1 Other 1 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Corporate governance continued Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive The Chairman of the Board is currently Martin Gilbert although, as The Chief Executive is Tim OToole.
He also has a written statement previously announced, he has indicated his intention to step down ofresponsibilities which has been approved by the Board.
He is once a successor has been appointed.
The Chairman has a written responsible for: statement of responsibilities which has been approved by the Board.
He is responsible for: running the day-to-day business of the Group, within the authorities delegated to him by the Board leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of ensuring implementation across the Group of the policies and its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues strategy set by the Board for the Group relevant to the Group and the concerns of all Board members day-to-day management of the executive and senior management ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the team provision of accurate, timely and clear information to the Board leading the development of senior management within the Group ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that the with the aim of assisting the training and development of suitable Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors individuals for future Director roles managing the Board, ensuring that sufficient time is allowed for the ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely manner of discussion of complex or contentious issues the issues facing the Group and of any important events and ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board as a developments whole, its Committees and individual Directors leading the development of the Groups future strategy including taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs identifying and assessing opportunities for the growth of its of individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to business and reviewing the performance of its existing businesses.
enhancing the overall effectiveness of the team facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and John Sievwright, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the Senior Non-Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, that of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
ensure their early contribution to the Board encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board.
Information provided to and professional development of Board members The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be conducted The Board is of the opinion, reinforced by the performance evaluation at each meeting well in advance and individual Board members have review referred to below, that Martin Gilberts significant and in depth direct access to senior management should they wish to receive knowledge and experience of the Groups business, combined with additional information on any of the items for discussion.
The head his external diverse business experience, will continue to enable him of each operating division attends Board meetings on a regular basis to provide effective leadership of the Board until the appointment of to ensure that the Board is properly informed about the performance his successor and that he will continue to make a positive contribution of that division and the issues it currently faces.
All Directors have to the Groups ongoing business.
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary The Chairmans other significant business commitments are and, if necessary, can seek independent professional advice described in his biography on page 52.
The Board performance at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
evaluation process referred to in the Chairmans letter and on page 57 The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board confirmed that the other Board members are satisfied that until the on corporate governance matters and for ensuring compliance appointment of his successor, Martin Gilbert will continue to have the with Board procedures.
necessary time available to devote to the proper performance of his duties as Chairman and will remain an effective leader of the Board, encouraging active engagement and promoting open communication between the Non-Executive Directors and Executive team.
56 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance During the year Chris Surch, Group Finance Director, and Jim Re-election of Directors Winestock and Brian Wallace, Non-Executive Directors received In accordance with the Code, all the Directors are offering themselves a comprehensive induction to their new roles.
They had meetings for re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on with the Company Secretary, management from all divisions Wednesday 17 July 2013.
The Chairman has announced his intention of the business and external advisors and were provided with to retire from the Board as soon as a successor has been appointed.
all documentation necessary to ensure that they had a firm Following a rigorous performance evaluation of each Director and understanding of the Companys operations and key risks and the Board as a whole, all Directors are considered by the Board to issues facing the Group.
They also went on site visits to some of be fully effective.
the Groups locations both in the UK and North America.
In addition, information and guidance was provided on their responsibilities and Appointment of Non-Executive Directors obligations under law, regulation and best practice guidelines.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for an initial term of three years, subject to re-appointment by shareholders.
They have The whole Board also receives updates, as required, on changes letters of appointment which are available on request for inspection.
tothe legal and regulatory regimes affecting the Group and the development process is supported throughout the year by a Directors and Officers liability insurance programme of business presentations as described above.
The Company maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance cover throughout the year as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Performance evaluation The cover was renewed on 1 April 2013.
As mentioned in the Chairmans letter, the Board undertook an external evaluation of its performance during the course of the year Committees of the Board carried out by Independent Board Evaluation, who have no The Board has established Nomination, Remuneration and connection with the Group.
The evaluation team drew up a detailed AuditCommittees with specific delegated powers, duties and agenda for Board interviews and observed the Board and its responsibilities.
The Chairmen and members of these committees Committees in action at their October meetings.
Thereafter all Board areappointed by the Board on the recommendation where members and key individuals participated in detailed interviews with appropriate of the Nomination Committee and in consultation the evaluation team.
In addition, each of the Directors was individually witheach relevant Committee Chairman.
assessed and this report was provided to the Chairman.
An assessment of the Chairmans performance was provided to the A fourth Committee, the Board Safety Committee was established to Senior Independent Director.
A full report was provided to the take effect from 1 April 2013 and will be reported on fully in next years Chairman and was laid before and discussed at the December 2012 Annual Report.
The report indicated that the FirstGroup Board is changing both in composition and culture and is becoming more effective, The Board Safety Committee will, among other things, provide adopting a more challenging and professional ethos.
The arrival of oversight of the Groups operational safety risk profile as presented new members has provided an opportunity to reset the culture which by the Group Safety Director and further promote a positive in turn will help the Board steer the Group through the period ahead.
The terms of reference of the Committee were adopted No significant issues were identified in the course of the evaluation on 13 May 2013.
They are available on request and are also published process.
This review will benefit the Board and serve as a benchmark ontheCompanys website.
against which to measure the rate of change going forward.
In addition management have employed Board Intelligence, who have no connection with the Group, to review and improve the way that information is presented to the Board to assist it in performing more effectively going forward.
Board composition Length of tenure Independence Under 1 year 3 Chairman 1 Chairman 1 1 to 5 years 3 Executive 2 Independent Director 5 Over 5 years 3 Non-Executive 6 Non-Independent Director 3 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee The Board is mindful that following the departure of Audrey Baxter in The Nomination Committee is currently chaired by Martin Gilbert.
The December 2011 it no longer has any female members.
The Board is other members of the Committee are David Begg, Colin Hood and supportive of the Financial Reporting Councils aim to encourage John Sievwright.
Tim OToole attends meetings of the Committee at diversity in the boardroom and of the recommendations contained in the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
The Group Employee the report of Lord Davies of Abersoch aimed at raising the proportion Director also attends meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the of women on UK boards.
The Board will work towards an aspiration Committee to represent the Groups employees.
of 20% of board positions filled by women by 2015, subject to the availability of candidates with the right skills and experience.
The The Committee met four times during the year and all members Board remains of the opinion that Board appointments should be attended each meeting held whilst they were Directors.
The primary made relative to a number of different criteria, including diversity of role of the Nomination Committee is to lead the process for Board gender, background and personal attributes, alongside the appropriate appointments and make recommendations to the Board.
The skill set, experience and expertise.
Committee meets as required to consider appointments of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
Its The terms of reference of the Committee were updated and adopted recommendations are then put to the Board for approval.
in March 2013 and are available on request and are also published on the Companys website.
The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by John Sievwright and includes reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board including David Begg and Colin Hood.
Brian Wallace was appointed to the the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity including Audit Committee in January 2013.
It met four times during the year gender and ensuring that all members of the Board have devoted and all members of the Committee attended each meeting whilst they sufficient time to their duties were members.
The Group Director of Internal Audit and the identifying and nominating for approval by the Board candidates Companys external auditors attended all of these meetings.
to fill vacancies as and when they arise, including utilising Executive Directors and other senior managers attended when search consultants requested and as appropriate.
The Group Director of Internal Audit overseeing the succession planning process for the Board and has the right of direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
senior management The Board considers that each member of the Committee has making recommendations to the Board regarding the continuation sufficient and recent financial experience to enable the Committee to in office of any Director, including re-election and re-appointment.
During the year the Committee considered and recommended to the Board the appointment of Chris Surch as Group Finance Director, The key role of the Audit Committee is to provide oversight and Brian Wallace and Jim Winestock as Non-Executive Directors, the reassurance to the Board as to the integrity and effectiveness of the appointment of Brian Wallace to the Audit Committee and Jim Groups risk and financial reporting and internal control systems and Winestock to the Remuneration Committee and the appointment of to monitor and review the activities and performance of the internal Colin Hood as Chairman of the newly formed Board Safety and external auditors.
It also monitors the consistent application of Committee.
The Committee was assisted in its search for UK based accounting policies by the Group, reviews the Groups half and full Executives by JCA Group and by Spencer Stuart for its US based year statements before they are considered and approved by the Director.
The Committee will lead the search for the Chairmans Board, reviews the Group Risk Register and monitors compliance successor and appoint an external search agency to assist in its with the Code and related guidance.
The key judgments assessed during the year included the First Great The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors forum, Western contract provision: the Diego Garcia contract provision: which comprises the Employee Directors of the Companys UK Goodwill impairment reviews: UK Rail bid costs: DSBFirst investment subsidiaries, and serves a maximum of three, three-year terms.
carrying value: UK Bus sales and closures: Dagenham Depot asset impairments and onerous contract review: First Transits First Support The Companys policy is to permit Executive Directors to accept a Services disposal: Loss making contracts review: pensions, legal limited number of outside non-executive directorships, recognising and environmental provisions: self insurance reserves and contract that this is an effective way to broaden their knowledge and expertise.
However, no such appointment can be taken up without prior Board approval.
The Companys policy on fees relating to such outside directorships is set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 68.
58 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Commentary from the Chairman of the Audit Committee In addition, each year, the Committee and the Board approves an As Chairman of the Audit Committee it is my responsibility to ensure annual audit plan for the internal audit department focusing on areas that the Committee is rigorous and effective in its role of: of priority as identified by risk analysis and progress against that plan.
The outcome of the Internal Auditors work is monitored, reports are reviewing and overseeing the Companys relationship with the sent to senior executives of the Group and subsidiary units, and there external auditors, monitoring their independence and the is a follow up process to ensure that actions to resolve any identified objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process and developing control weaknesses are implemented.
and implementing policy on the engagement of the external The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations to auditors to supply non-audit services the Board in respect of the appointment or re-appointment of the making recommendations to the Board in respect of the Groups external auditors and recommends to the Board the audit fee appointment re-appointment of the external auditors and the audit to be paid to the external auditors.
The Boards decision on these fee to be paid matters is subject to the approval of shareholders.
The independence, reviewing the reports on the Company from the internal auditors objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors have been and the activities, findings, conclusions and recommendations of examined by the Committee and discussions were held regarding the external auditors, together with the annual audit letter, any their terms of engagement, remuneration and proposal for partner audit representation letters and any management letters rotation.
The appointment of the Senior Statutory Auditor SSA is rotated every five years.
The current SSA was appointed during the monitoring the integrity of the annual and half year results and 2010 11 financial year.
Deloitte LLP was originally appointed as interim management statements, including reviewing the external auditor in 1999. significant financial reporting issues and judgments contained in them and reviewing and, where necessary, challenging the The majority of non-audit work is put out to tender, with the exception Companys financial statements of regulatory reporting work and due diligence work on acquisitions or monitoring the consistency of and any changes to accounting policy potential acquisitions and disposals in both the UK and overseas, reviewing the procedures for the identification, assessment and where the current auditors knowledge of the Companys business reporting of risks processes and controls means that they are usually best placed to undertake this work cost-effectively on the Companys behalf.
Details monitoring the Companys whistleblowing arrangements and of the audit and non-audit fees, including a breakdown of the procedures for detecting fraud non-audit fees, are set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
The reporting formally to the Board, providing advice on the annual Committee concluded that the nature and extent of the non-audit report and making appropriate recommendations to the Board.
fees did not compromise audit independence.
During the year we have continued to focus on the above and on The Committee reviews with management a detailed analysis of the improving key financial controls, processes and procedures.
Groups financial information prior to completion and announcement of the half year and full year results and receives a report from the Key matters discussed during the year external auditors on the audit process.
If necessary, the external Annual Report and Accounts 2012 and external auditors report auditors also meet separately with the Committee and or the thereon Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Annual Group internal audit matters Report and Accounts and half yearly Financial Report are subject risk report from the Risk Group including updates to the Group to a detailed verification process involving external advisers.
Risk Register The Committee may request the Executive Directors and any other Half year financial report and external auditors report thereon officers of the Group to attend its meetings but none has the right of external audit plan for the year ended 31 March 2013 attendance.
Committee meetings may be requested by the external or internal auditors if they consider it necessary.
approval of external audit and non-audit fees review and approval of an updated Terms of Reference The Terms of Reference of the Committee were updated and adopted in March 2013 and are available on request.
They are also published Key matters discussed after year end on the Companys website.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 and the external auditors report thereon I was delighted that Brian Wallace was appointed to the Audit Committee in January 2013 and I welcome the wealth of financial and UK public company experience that he brings.
John Sievwright Chairman of the Audit Committee FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee Risk Group The key role of the Remuneration Committee is to set the Each Division has a designated Risk Champion who is responsible for remuneration of the Groups Executive Directors and the Chairman maintaining a risk register for that Division.
These risk registers are and to monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior used to compile a Group Risk Register, which is kept under review by management.
It met eight times during the year and all members the Risk Group, which is made up of members of the senior of the Committee attended each meeting held whilst they were management team and the divisional Risk Champions.
Details of the membership of the Committee are set out meets on at least a quarterly basis.
Further details can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 63 to 71, together under the Internal Controls section below.
with a statement of the Groups remuneration strategy and policy.
Financial reporting Full details of Directors remuneration appear in the Directors The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the Groups remuneration report on page 68. external financial reporting in order to present a balanced and The Board has also formally delegated certain matters to: comprehensible assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects to its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and Executive Committee other third parties.
This commitment encompasses all published The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors and information including, but not limited to, the year end and half yearly meets on an ad hoc basis to consider matters which arise in the financial statements, regulatory news announcements and other ordinary course of the Groups operations.
It is chaired by the Chief public information.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities for Executive and has specific delegated powers within prescribed limits preparing the financial statements can be found on page 75. to deal with matters arising in the ordinary course of business which need to be considered before the next scheduled Board meeting.
Internal controls The Board has established procedures to provide an ongoing Board Safety Committee process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks The Board Safety Committee comprises Colin Hood chairman, faced by the Group and to meet the requirements of the Code and its Jim Winestock, Tim OToole and Naveed Qamar the Group Safety related guidance on internal controls.
These procedures are subject Director and reviews safety performance, provides oversight of the to regular review.
management of the Groups operational safety risk profile and promotes a positive safety culture.
Responsibility and risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems for The following groups and committees also meet on a regular basis to internal control and assessing risk.
The responsibility for establishing review ongoing matters and make recommendations to the Board or detailed control and risk management procedures within each one of the formally constituted committees referred to above: subsidiary lies with the Executive Directors and divisional managing directors.
A sound system of internal control is designed to manage Executive Management Board EMB rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives The EMB, which comprises the Executive Directors and certain senior and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against management, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It acts as a general material misstatement or loss.
operating management committee and meets on a monthly basis to review current issues and to consider the Groups operational and The Board has established a Risk Group, comprising senior financial performance.
management from all of the Groups main businesses as well as from the finance, treasury, legal, insurance and internal audit functions Executive Safety Committee ESC which reviews the significant risks facing the Group.
The Risk Group The ESC is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets on a monthly meets at least four times annually and reports to the Audit Committee basis.
It comprises the Divisional Heads of each of the businesses, which in turn reports to the Board with the express purpose of other Group Directors and the Group Safety Director.
The ESC reviewing the risk and control procedures in each of the business reviews the Groups safety performance and practices and approves areas and support functions.
As an integral part of planning and Group safety policies and procedures.
During the year a number of review, management from each of the business areas and support meetings were attended by independent safety experts and senior functions identify the risks facing their operations, as well as the representatives of relevant industry bodies, including the Office of Rail controls in place to mitigate those risks.
The probability of risks Regulation ORR, the Health and Safety Executive HSE, the Rail occurring as well as the likely impact on the Groups business, should Accident Investigation Branch RAIB, Network Rail and the Rail the risks occur, are also assessed and documented.
These risks are Safety and Standards Board RSSB.
Since 1 April 2013 a Board assessed on a regular basis, taking into account changes in both Safety Committee chaired by Colin Hood, has provided oversight of external and internal circumstances, which may include alterations to the Groups operational safety risk profile as presented by the Group regulatory requirements, disruption to information systems, industrial Safety Director with the aim of further promoting a positive safety relations issues, control breakdowns, as well as changes in the culture.
A full report on its activities will be included in next years political and economic climate and social, ethical and environmental Annual Report.
As a result of the reports submitted to it by the Risk Group, the Audit 60 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Committee is able to keep under regular review the major risks and Throughout the year internal audit conduct a comprehensive mitigating controls facing the Group.
A table of the principal risks and programme of reviews of internal controls within the operating units.
uncertainties facing the Group is on pages 46 to 51.
These reviews have sometimes highlighted minor control weaknesses which are discussed with management and remedial action plans are Control environment agreed.
Where appropriate, follow up visits to the operating entity The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral then confirm that the action plans have been completed and that the values and professionalism in all its activities, principles with which all controls that have been put in place are working effectively.
No managers and employees are required to comply.
The Group has a material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require Code of Business Ethics, which is part of the Groups Corporate disclosure in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts have resulted Responsibility Policy.
A copy is available on the Companys website.
In addition, the Board has effective controls in place including an Whistleblowing anti-bribery policy to address the requirements of relevant antiThe Group has well established procedures whereby employees may, corruption legislation including the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US in confidence, raise concerns relating to personal or employment Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 1977.
Internal Audit maintains a Group issues, potential fraud, health and safety, harassment, discrimination, Hospitality and Gifts Register which records all hospitality or gifts security or any other matter.
The confidential hotline covers all given or received by all Board and EMB members including all businesses across the Group in each country in which it operates.
hospitality or gifts offered but not accepted, the value of which exceeds a fide minimis amount.
Additional Hospitality and Gift The Group is confident that these whistleblowing arrangements are Registers are also maintained at the divisional level.
All senior satisfactory and enable proportionate and independent investigation management in the Group are required to disclose hospitality or gifts of such matters and appropriate follow up action to be taken.
given or received as well as those that are offered but not accepted Review of effectiveness of financial controls for entry into these registers.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the The Group has a defined divisional organisational structure with lines system of internal controls for the year under review and to the date of of authority and delegated responsibility which allows the Board to approval of the Annual Report and Accounts through the monitoring plan, execute, control and monitor the business in a manner process described above.
In addition, the Directors confirm that they consistent with the Groups objectives.
The day-to-day business have kept under regular review the effectiveness of the Groups management is delegated to the Executive Directors and subsidiary internal audit function.
unit managing directors under the overall direction of the Chief Treasury operations Executive.
As noted above, the Board reserves to itself a number of The Board has set a policy for management of the risks from treasury specific items, which ensures that it retains control over key business operations and this is set out in more detail in note 25 to the financial decisions and significant transactions in terms of size, type or risk.
A Group Treasury Policy has been formulated and number of the Groups key functions including treasury, taxation, adopted to ensure compliance with best practice and to control and insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate communications and monitor effectively the risks attendant upon treasury and procurement are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions is banking operations.
monitored by an Executive Director.
Currency exchange rate fluctuations and exposures Monitoring The Groups principal operations are in the UK, the US and Canada The Group adopts a financial reporting and information system which and are therefore subject to currency fluctuations, both in terms of its complies with generally accepted accounting practice.
The Group trading activities and the translation of its financial statements.
The Finance Manual, circulated by the Group Finance function to all Group currently has a significant natural hedge arising from Dollar subsidiaries, details the Groups accounting policies and procedures denominated earnings in the US businesses offset by Dollar with which subsidiaries must comply.
Budgets are prepared by denominated interest costs and fuel costs in its UK businesses.
subsidiary company management and are subject to review by both senior management and the Executive Directors followed by formal approval at the Board.
Regular forecast updates are completed during the year and compared against actions required.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of operating performance with a commentary on variances against budget and prior year.
Similar reports are prepared at a Group level.
Key performance indicators, both financial and operational, are monitored on a weekly basis.
In addition, business units participate in strategic reviews which include consideration of long term financial projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Corporate governance continued Significant agreements change of control the approval of the Office of Rail Regulation.
All of these operators a Financing agreements also require and hold track access agreements with Network Rail The Group has a US$1,250m multi-currency revolving credit and Infrastructure Limited under which they are permitted to access guarantee facility between, amongst others, the Company and The railway infrastructure.
Failure by any of the operators to maintain its Royal Bank of Scotland plc dated 9 December 2010.
This financing railway licence is a potential termination event under the terms of the agreement contains provisions entitling the lenders to exercise track access agreements.
The Groups railway operators also lease termination rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
rolling stock from specialist rolling stock leasing companies such as Following any change of control of the Company, the majority of the Eversholt Rail Group, Porterbrook Leasing Company Limited and lenders are obliged to negotiate with the Company with a view to Angel Trains Limited.
A material number of the individual leasing resolving any concerns arising from such change of control and, if the agreements include change of control provisions.
matter has not been resolved to the reasonable satisfaction of the c Joint venture agreements majority of the lenders in that time, then, if the majority of the lenders The Company has joint venture agreements with Keolis UK Limited so require, the agent must cancel the total commitments under the in relation to First TransPennine Express and with DSB in relation to facility and require prepayment of all outstanding amounts.
The DSB First Aps and DSB Sverige AB.
As is customary, these joint Companys bilateral financing agreements contain similar provisions venture agreements include provisions addressing change of control.
such that, following a change of control of the Company, the banks are required to negotiate with the Company with a view to resolving d London bus operations any concerns arising from such change of control and, if the matter The Groups UK Bus business operates London bus routes under has not been resolved to the reasonable satisfaction of the banks in contract to London Bus Services Limited.
These agreements include that time, they may if they so require cancel the total commitments change ofcontrol provisions which are significant when all the routes under the facilities and require prepayment of all outstanding amounts.
On 9 April 2013 contracts were exchanged forthe disposal of the majority of the Groups existing London bus The US$150m 4.26% notes due in three instalments of US$50m from operations, to the extent operated from depots at Alperton, 2016 to 2017, the 250m 6.125% bonds due 2019, the 300m 8.125% Greenford, Lea Interchange, Hayes, Uxbridge, Westbourne Park and bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due 2021, the 200m Willesden Junction.
On completion of these disposals, the Groups 6.875% bonds due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due 2022 London bus operations will cease to amount to a significant interest.
issued by the Company may also be affected by a change of control of the Company.
A change of control in respect of the 250m 6.125% Auditors bonds due 2019 may result in an increase of 1.5% per annum in the Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as interest rate payable on those bonds.
However, the interest rate on auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the the bonds will only be so increased if certain further thresholds in forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
relation to the credit rating of the bonds are also met.
In respect of the 300m 8.125% bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due Annual General Meeting 2021, the 200m 6.875% bonds due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the Directors bonds due 2022, upon a change of control of the Company, provided at the Companys Annual General Meeting, at which a report is made that certain further thresholds in relation to the credit rating of the on the highlights of the key business developments during the year bonds are met, the bondholders have the option to require the under review.
The Chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit Company to redeem the bonds.
In respect of the US$150m 4.26% and Board Safety Committees attend the Annual General Meeting to notes due from 2016 to 2017, upon a change of control, the Company answer specific questions from shareholders.
All Directors who then must make an offer to noteholders to prepay the entire unpaid held office were present at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
principal amount of the notes held by each bondholder at par together with interest accrued thereon but without any yieldNotice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders maintenance amount.
at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on each substantially b UK Rail separate issue.
Proxy votes are counted on all resolutions and, where The Groups franchised passenger rail operators, First Capital votes are taken on a show of hands, the proxy results are Connect, First ScotRail, First TransPennine Express and First Great subsequently announced to the meeting.
Western, are each party to a franchise agreement with the Scottish Ministers in respect of First ScotRail and with the Secretary of State for Transport in respect of the other operators.
These franchise agreements are subject to termination clauses which may apply on a change of control.
These operators and the Groups non-franchised rail operator, First Hull Trains, each hold railway licences as required by the Railways Act 1993 as amended : these licences may be revoked on three months notice if a change of control occurs without 62 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013
