CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PETER HILL, CBE CHAIRMAN DEAR SHAREHOLDER, I am pleased to present the Companys corporate As stewards of the Company, I believe it is the responsibility governance report for 2013 on behalf of the Board.
of the whole Board to ensure that the Companys strategy is aligned with the interests of our investors and stakeholders.
At the end of our first year, I can confirm that the new Board During the year the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration has proven itself to be working well together: the intense Committees, the Executive Directors and myself have work undertaken has unified and strengthened the Board.
extensively engaged with our major stakeholders to try We have met more than we would do normally which has and understand their views.
enabled the Board to develop further its strategy for the Company.
I feel the Board has the right depth and mix of We believe that a robust governance framework based skills and experience, knowledge and independence to on integrity and transparency, which promotes challenge address a number of tough challenges and to ensure that and accountability, is the cornerstone of our organisation.
it acts in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
We have endeavoured to set out in this Report clear The Board is well placed to maximise the opportunities information for all stakeholders on how Alent sets out for Alent and its shareholders.
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards I would like to encourage all shareholders to attend our of corporate governance and ensuring values and AGM on 19 May 2014.
It is an excellent opportunity to behaviours are embedded and consistent across the meet the Board and some senior executives.
As a new company we have sought to enshrine best practice and believe that good governance is integral to our strategy and decision making processes.
Throughout this first year, either collectively or individually, PETER HILL all Board members have visited many of the Companys CHAIRMAN operations and sites and engaged with our people and 4 March 2014 other stakeholders in order to gain an invaluable insight into the culture and values prevailing throughout the business.
48 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM Y G E T STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION A R T S E C N A R N I R S E K V O G WHAT IS OUR APPROACH TO GOVERNANCE?
HOW THE BOARD SPENT ITS TIME This report, including the reports from the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees, describes the Companys corporate governance structure and explains how the Company has applied all the principles set out in sections A to E of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the UK Code, The UK Code is intended to promote the interest of shareholders, increase director accountability and encourage greater stakeholder engagement and has been designed to provide investors with greater insight into the activities of companies, through the work of the Board and its Committees.
As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Company is committed to ensuring that the highest WHAT DID THE BOARD standards of corporate governance are maintained and DO IN 2013?
we intend to comply fully with the main and supporting principles of the UK Code.
The Companys auditors, KPMG, are required to review whether or not the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to reflect if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
Copies of the UK Code are publicly available at www.
HOW HAVE WE RESPONDED TO RECENT Schedule of matters reserved to the Board for formal GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS?
consideration, and which are reviewed annually, include: The Board has received regular updates from both myself, the Company Secretary and the Companys advisers setting the Groups strategy: enabling it to consider all governance developments as reviewing the Company and divisional performance: well as receiving appropriate training and education on approval of the annual budget: relevant issues.
approval of major corporate transactions, including acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and major LEADERSHIP changes to the Groups capital structure: The Role of the Board approval to enter into contracts which are deemed to be The Board is appointed by shareholders, who are the owners material either strategically or by reason of size, duration of the Company.
The Boards principal responsibility is to act or liability: in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole, within the legal framework of the Companies Act 2006.
Ultimate approval of key policies, including the Companys responsibility for the management and long-term success financing and treasury policies, and others such as those of Alent rests with the Board of Directors.
The Board focuses relating to Health, Safety, Environment and our Code of primarily upon strategic, policy and governance issues Conduct the Alent Code, as well as key areas of and is responsible for the Companys long-term success.
commitment such as Diversity and Inclusion: It approves the Companys strategy, oversees the allocation preparing the Groups and Companys financial statements: of resources, approves the Companys operating budgets recommending or declaring a dividend: which are normally proposed by the Chief Executive and monitors the performance of the Company against them.
reviewing the Groups overall governance arrangements The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and including approval of the delegated authorities matrix: managing the key risks faced by the Company, and for maintaining effective internal controls and risk establishing the effectiveness of the Companys systems management processes: of internal controls.
It has a formal schedule of matters succession planning and appointments to the Board: reserved to it and delegates certain matters to Committees setting senior executive remuneration: and as set out in the Report.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors constructively challenge the Executive Directors reviewing the performance of the Board itself and and review their performance.
The Board reviews, at least its Committees.
annually, the performance of the Chairman.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 49 L E E A C D N E A R S N I H F I P N O I T A C U D E CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C ON T IN UE D WHO IS OUR BOARD?
The Composition of the Board The Board currently has eight Directors, comprising the Non-executive Chairman, Peter Hill CBE: the Chief Executive, Steve Corbett: the Finance Director, David Egan: and five Non-executive Directors, Dr Emma FitzGerald, Lars Frberg, Nol Harwerth, Jan Oosterveld and Mark Williamson.
With the exception of Lars Frberg, all of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent.
Simon OHara serves as Company Secretary.
NAME POSITION INDEPENDENT NATIONALITY Peter Hill CBE Chairman yes and at time of appointment British Mark Williamson Senior Independent Director yes British Non-executive Director Steve Corbett Chief Executive no American David Egan Finance Director no British, Australian Emma FitzGerald Non-executive Director yes British Lars Frberg Non-executive Director no Swedish Nol Harwerth Non-executive Director yes British, American Jan Oosterveld Non-executive Director yes Dutch HOW IS OUR BOARD ORGANISED?
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the and Division of Responsibilities day-to-day management of the business, the performance The division of responsibilities between the Chairman for which he is accountable and upon which he reports and the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board to the Board.
He has the lead role in developing the and is set out in writing.
Companys strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board, and for the implementation of the THE CHAIRMAN agreed strategy.
The Chief Executive is responsible on The Chairman leads the Board, promoting a culture of a day-to-day basis for, and oversees, the Companys openness, challenge and debate and ensuring its performance in health, safety and environmental matters.
effectiveness and high standards of corporate governance to safeguard the interests of shareholders.
The Chairman The Chief Executive is supported by the Finance Director facilitates and encourages open communication and in the provision to the Board of high-quality financial constructive working relationships between the Executive information on the Companys performance.
and Non-executive Directors and provides overall guidance The Role of Executive Directors to the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Executive Directors have specific executive The Chairman, in conjunction with the Nominations responsibilities, of which the Chief Executives are set Committee, is also responsible for Board succession out above.
The Chief Executive provides leadership to planning and has ultimate responsibility for communication the management team, sets the culture, standards, and dialogue with shareholders, together with ensuring ethics and values of the Company, and is responsible for that the Board acts in the best interest of shareholders management development and succession planning within the Company.
The Finance Director has particular taken as a whole.
responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary Companys financial reporting, for treasury, tax and risk and Executive Directors, sets the agenda for Board management, and for internal financial controls.
meetings and ensures that all Board and Committee members receive accurate, timely and clear information Executive Directors are not members of the Board prior to meetings.
A clear structure for the operation of the Committees, although they may be invited to attend.
Board and its Committees is in place.
The Chairman meets Both Mr Corbett and Mr Egan attended all Audit routinely with the Chief Executive, the Finance Director Committee meetings during the year.
Mr Corbett was also and the Company Secretary to discuss relevant matters.
a regular attendee at the Remuneration Committee.
The Board considers that the Chairman is able to, and The biographical details of the Executive Directors and does, devote sufficient time to his duties at Alent.
details of their relevant experience are set out on page 46.
The biographical details of the Chairman and details of his relevant experience are set out on page 46.
50 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION The Role of Non-executive Directors The Company Secretary The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills Simon OHara is the Company Secretary and has and international experience to the Board.
Their role is to acted as Secretary to all Committees during the year.
understand the business and its markets, to help shape The Secretary supports the Chairman on corporate and develop strategy, and to challenge constructively governance matters.
Together with the Chairman, he is and support the management.
Additionally, their role is responsible to the Board in respect of compliance with also to satisfy themselves with regard to the integrity of the Board procedures, ensuring a timely flow of information Companys financial information and to ensure that the and for the setting of the annual programme of Board and Companys financial controls and risk management Committee meetings and their agendas.
Furthermore, he systems are robust and defensible.
Collectively they hold has responsibility, via the Chairman, for ensuring that the or have held senior positions in their chosen fields, Board is kept up to date on legislative, regulatory and including finance and mergers & acquistions, and governance matters and developments and that all contribute a wide range of international experience and induction and professional development needs are met.
objective perspective to the Board.
They represent a strong, The Company Secretary ensures that there is an independent element on the Board.
As Chairmen of the appropriate level of communication between the Board Board Committees, the independent Non-executive and its Committees and between senior management Directors also fulfil important leadership roles.
As members and the Non-executive Directors.
of the Board Committees, the independent Non-executive Directors bring focus on governance and succession All Directors have access to the advice and services planning, internal controls, risk management and of the Company Secretary.
Board meetings The biographical details of the Non-executive Directors The Board convened formally on nine occasions during and details of their relevant experience are set out on 2013 and held a number of ad-hoc committee meetings, pages 46 to 47. either face to face or telephonically, in which it considered non-routine business.
In addition, the Chairman and the The Senior Independent Director other Non-executive Directors met routinely on their own Mark Williamson is our Senior Independent Director.
without the Executive Directors present, and, at least once The Board nominates one of the Non-executive Directors during the year the Non-executive Directors met without to act as Senior Independent Director and provide an the Chairman being present to discuss matters such as alternative contact at Board level, other than the the Chairmans performance.
Chairman, to whom shareholder matters can be The Board used one of its meetings in 2013 specifically to addressed.
The Senior Independent Director, when consider and review the Companys strategy and its necessary, supports the Chairman and the other Nonimplementation, and its future prospects and has used executive Directors on Company related matters.
He will subsequent meetings to review additional areas of the act as a sounding board for the Chairman and, should it Groups strategy.
be required, can act as an intermediary for any concerns of other Non-executive Directors.
There is a written job specification for the role which is reviewed annually by the Nominations Committee.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for undertaking the annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance, leading the recruitment process for a new Chairman while ensuring an orderly succession process.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C ON T IN UE D HOW IS THE BOARD STRUCTURED?
In addition to the three Board Committees there are a Board Committees number of executive management committees which The Board is assisted by three Committees: Audit, have been established to consider various issues involved Remuneration and Nominations Committees, as set out in the day-to-day operational management of the in the diagram below.
Each Committee is responsible for Company, and matters for recommendation to the Board reviewing and overseeing activities within its particular and its Committees.
terms of reference: copies of which are available on the Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees Companys website: www.
At each scheduled is composed of the independent Non-executive Directors.
Board meeting the Chairman of each Committee provides The Board also delegates specific responsibilities to its a summary of any Committee meeting held since the Finance and Share Schemes Committees.
previous Board meeting, and the minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Individual reports from each Committee Chairman for 2013 are provided on pages 60 to 84.
SHAREHOLDERS Elect the Directors Appoint the auditors BOARD Non-Executive Chairman 2 Executive Directors 5 Non-Executive Directors NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Non-executive Chairman, Independent Non-executive Directors Independent Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors The compliance programme includes Monitors the integrity of the Companys Takes primary responsibility for undertaking risk assessments and financial statements and reviews succession planning, Board Director engaging with others working on behalf financial and regulatoty compliance selection and Board composition of the Company to ensure that their and controls standards comply with the Companys Committee report page 66 Committee report pages 60 to 65 policies.
Agrees remuneration policy and sets individual compensation levels for members of senior management Committee report pages 67 to 84 52 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION G O T O H V E E R R M N 2 K A A 0 I R T N 1 N T O C 3 E C L R W E R U S E E A D M M I N G N A D U N G R I N L T F T E I A R P R N N O T A O N P A T I E U I R T R A A O G L L R E N T E A B S I N R O C E U N V N M U E I A E E S X O N R W T F I E F N R O N N A - L A U A AUDIT COMMITTEE Responsibilities: To monitor the integrity of financial reporting and to assist the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems.
Chair of Committee: Mark Williamson Membership: Independent Non-executive Directors, excluding 2013 the Chairman.
ACTIVITY Attending by invitation: Company Chairman: Lars Frberg non-independent Non-executive Director : the Chief Executive: the Finance Director: and the external auditor are invited to attend on a regular basis.
The Head of Internal Audit and the Group Financial Controller are invited as and when appropriate.
The Chairman of the Committee may request the attendance of others at meetings, including external advisers.
D Minimum number of meetings per year: Four Committee Report: Page 60 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Responsibilities: To determine the appropriate remuneration packages for the Companys Chairman, Executive Directors, and Company Secretary and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for other senior management.
Chair of Committee: Nol Harwerth Membership: 2013 Independent Non-executive Directors, excluding ACTIVITY the Chairman.
Attending by invitation: Company Chairman: Lars Frberg non-independent Non-executive Director : the Chief Executive: and the Vice-President, Human Resources are invited to attend as required.
The Chairman of the Committee may request the attendance of others at meetings including external advisers.
Minimum number of meetings per year: As necessary it is anticipated that at least three meetings will be held each year.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 53 U I D T I S T, E S R R M V E R I E V E C S T I M D E R S E U S E N Y W T S N A T E L A T R I O M D A R T U I T R A O E N L H N O A T C R O N E R L C E E A T O C N N M N I R R A E M I T S N E N K N R I E D M V A A T O I N G O A N G S E M E N T D I V E R S I T Y G N I N N A L P N O I S S G E O C V C E R U S N A N C E CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C ON T IN UE D NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Responsibilities: To advise the Board on appointments, retirements and resignations from the Board and its Committees and review succession planning for the Board.
Chair of Committee: Peter Hill, the Chairman except where considering his own succession or replacement, in which case the Committee is chaired by Mark Williamson, the Senior Independent Director.
2013 Membership: ACTIVITY The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
Attending by invitation: Chief Executive.
Minimum number of meetings per year: As necessary.
Committee Report: Page 66 Each Committee has written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are available to view on the Companys website www.
FINANCE COMMITTEE Responsibilities: To approve specific funding and treasury-related matters as set out in the Companys delegated authorities or as delegated from time to time by the Board.
Chair of Committee: The Chairman.
Membership: The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Company Treasurer.
Attending by invitation: Others whom the Chairman shall so require.
SHARE SCHEMES COMMITTEE Responsibilities: To facilitate the administration of the Companys share schemes.
Chair of Committee: Any member.
54 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM O T H E S R R M O A T T C T E E R R I S D F O N O I T C C E L O E M - E P R O S I T I O N O F B O A R D STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WHO ATTENDS BOARD MEETINGS Board Attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Overall Attendance Total meetings 9 5 5 1 20 Peter Hill 9 1 10 Mark Williamson 9 5 5 1 20 Steve Corbett 9 9 David Egan 9 9 Emma FitzGerald 9 5 5 1 20 1 Lars Frberg 8 1 9 Nel Harwerth 9 5 5 1 20 Jan Oosterveld 9 5 5 1 20 1.
Lars Frberg attended all meetings except the June Board meeting.
Overall total does not include two telephonic Board meetings attended by all Non-executive Directors.
Overall total does not include attendance by invitation of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and Mr Frberg to Committee meetings.
objective criteria for the appointment of new Directors to the BOARD EFFECTIVENESS How do we get the best out of our Board?
The Committee considers any proposed recruitment in the context of the Companys strategic priorities.
The Board seeks to ensure that both it and its Committees have the appropriate range of skills, experience, Board appointments are made on merit.
Non-executive appointees are required to demonstrate that they have knowledge and independence to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities sufficient time to devote to the role.
Alent is privileged to have a Board of Directors Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Board with such international business backgrounds and a range succession recognising the importance of recruiting of diverse skills, experience and nationalities.
This diversity Non-executive Directors with the necessary technical skills has been invaluable in developing the Companys and knowledge relevant to the work of its Committees.
business strategy and enables such a global Further information on the Nominations Committee is set manufacturing business to be effectively governed.
out in the Nominations Committee Report on page 66.
The Board considers its size to be appropriate for the Time commitment of the Chairman and requirements of the business.
No one other than the Non-executive Directors respective Committee Chairmen and members of the The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each have Committees are entitled to be present at meetings of the a letter of appointment which sets out the terms and Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, but conditions of their directorship.
An indication of the others may attend by invitation.
anticipated time commitment is provided in the recruitment role specification, and their letters of appointment provide The Board considers the majority of the Non-executive details of the meetings that they are expected to attend, Directors to be independent of management and free along with indicating the need to accommodate travelling fromany business or other relationship which could affect time particularly for overseas trips and to set aside the exercise of their independent judgment.
sufficient time to prepare for meetings and regularly to The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria on refresh and update their skills and knowledge.
All Directors agree to commit sufficient time for the proper performance his appointment to the Board.
Dr Emma FitzGerald, Nol Harwerth, Jan Oosterveld and Mark Williamson of their responsibilities and understand that this will vary from year to year depending on the Companys activities.
have been determined by the Board to be independent in character and judgment.
Lars Frberg is not considered Directors are expected to attend all Board meetings and any additional meetings including Committee meetings to be independent as he is managing partner of Cevian Capital which holds 21.94% of Alents issued ordinary as required.
Directors other significant commitments are disclosed to the Board at the time of their appointment and share capital.
they are required to notify the Board of any subsequent Appointments to the Board and its Committees changes.
The Company has reviewed the availability of the The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board Non-executive Directors and considers that each of them is appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
able to, and in practice does, devote the necessary The Board through the Nominations Committee follows a amount of time to the Companys business.
formal, rigorous and transparent procedure based on WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C ON T IN UE D OUR INDUCTION PROGRAMME Information Induction and training The Board has in place processes to ensure that it is The Company Secretary is tasked with ensuring that a supplied in a timely manner with information of an comprehensive induction programme is provided to all new appropriate quality to enable it to adequately discharge its Directors.
This includes visits to manufacturing and other duties.
Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of Company facilities, one to one meetings with key Company the relevant Board or Committee meeting to enable them executives and wider management and introductions to to make further enquiries about any matters prior to the the Companys principal external advisers, as appropriate.
meeting should they so wish.
This also allows Directors For example, at its Board meetings in Providence RI and who are unable to attend to submit views in advance West Haven CT, the Non-executive Directors were given the of the meeting.
opportunity to meet Alents wider US leadership group at The Company Secretary oversees the distribution of these both formal presentations and informal lunch and dinner papers and ensures that there is an appropriate level of events.
Subsequently, after each site visit the Board or communication between the Board and its Committees appropriate Committee has been briefed on the and between senior management and the Non-executive impressions gained by Directors attending the visit.
He also keeps the Board informed of relevant New Directors are advised of their legal and other duties developments in corporate governance.
The Chief and obligations as Directors of a listed company.
Executive provides, as a matter of routine, a written update Reference materials are provided, including information on important business issues between meetings and invites about the Board, its committees, Directors duties, the views of the Directors on these.
procedures for dealing in the Companys shares and other Support regulatory and governance matters.
The Boards learning There is an agreed procedure in place to support Directors is continued through Board and Committee briefings.
in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal The Chairman meets with Directors on an ongoing basis to advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
review any training and development needs.
In addition, the Directors are provided with details of seminars and EVALUATION OF BOARD EFFECTIVENESS training courses relevant to their role.
They are encouraged Performance evaluation to attend those they consider appropriate and are The first annual Board review provided an opportunity to supported by the Company in so doing.
Where a general reflect on collective and individual effectiveness during training need is identified, in-house training will be provided the Boards first year of working together.
In accordance to the entire Board.
with the provisions of the Code, the Board of Alent plc undertook a formal and rigorous externally facilitated For example, before the start of the Boards May meeting, review of its own performance and effectiveness and the Companys legal advisers led a bespoke training assessed the performance of its Committees and session addressing the duties and responsibilities of individual Board members.
The Chairman, assisted by Directors of listed companies.
Similarly, during the year, the the Company Secretary, led the evaluation process.
Companys external auditors presented a separate training The Senior Independent Director was responsible for the session to advise Non-executive Directors of regulatory performance evaluation of the Chairman.
developments and statutory changes impacting their responsibilities and obligations.
As this was the Boards first evaluation exercise, we took the view that the approach should take the form of a DIRECTOR INDUCTION PROGRAMME desk-based questionnaire, which could also be completed electronically.
The Directors and the Company Secretary Board and Governance were asked their view on a range of subjects, including: Alents governance model, Directors duties, interests and the operation of the Board: potential conflicts Committee induction Board administration Alents Business strategy and performance: risk and governance: and Assembly Materials January Meeting Surface Chemistries January Meeting individual Committee evaluation.
Research and Development, production and overview of Within this framework the Board considered the balance our operations September Meeting of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Site visits Company on the Board, its diversity, including gender, Functional Input how the Board worked together as a unit and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
Finance and tax Controls, external auditors and internal audit Human Resources June Meeting Ethics and compliance 56 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION How are we progressing?
WHAT IS OUR APPROACH TO SHAREHOLDERS It was clear from the Board review that good progress has RE-APPOINTING DIRECTORS?
been made against the actions the Board set itself last Re-election of Directors year.
The Board successfully: The Code recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual re-election by engaged with institutional shareholders throughout shareholders.
All the Directors will therefore be offering the year: themselves for re-election at this years AGM, with the engaged with senior management and ensured via a biographical details of each of the Directors, including number of site visits that the Board collectively understood details of their other directorships and relevant skills and the business and its markets and the environment in experience, set out on pages 46 to 47.
The Board believes which it operates: that each of the Directors standing for re-election is ensured that the Companys financial controls and risk effective and demonstrates commitment to their management systems are robust and defensible: and respective roles.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at reviewed the basis of executive remuneration, and the 2014 AGM relating to the re-election of the Directors.
produced a set of recommendations better to align the policy with Alents strategy as set out on page 67 The current policy is for Non-executive Directors to serve of the Annual Report and Accounts.
on the Board for nine years, with review at the end of three and six years, subject to shareholder re-election, mutual Following the outcome of the Review, the Board has agreement and annual performance evaluation.
committed itself to a number of actions in 2014, including: continuing to challenge and effectively support the DO THE DIRECTORS HAVE DEEDS OF INDEMNITY?
management team as we continue to evolve the strategy Directors indemnities as set out on page 12: To the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies continuing to strive to make progress on planning the Act 2006, the Directors have been granted Qualifying long-term framework for Board discussion, enabling more Third-Party Indemnity Provisions by the Company.
time for fuller debate on a range of strategic subjects: The indemnities for Directors of Alent plc have been ensuring appropriate challenge and debate around in force throughout the year.
risk and the approach to risk by reviewing the need for Directors conflicts of interest a Risk Committee: The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to continuing to review the balance and the content of the review regularly their interests and to deal with situations Board papers and meeting agendas: and where a Director reports any conflicts of interest.
Any reviewing how we can continue to benefit from conflict situation reported to the Chairman and the the extensive and diverse experience of our Company Secretary is considered by the Board based on Non-executive Directors.
Any authorisations given to a Director who has a conflict situation are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of Directors conflicts which is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting situational conflicts operates effectively.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C ON T IN UE D ACCOUNTABILITY In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the How does the Board formally satisfy itself that it has Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness sound risk management and internal control systems?
of the Companys system of internal control and that the necessary actions have been taken to remedy and control The Audit Committee any control weaknesses identified during the year.
The membership of the Audit Committee is set out on page 53.
The Audit Committee Report, which summarises the Since the date of this review there have been no significant terms of reference of the Audit Committee and describes changes in internal controls or other matters which could its work in discharging its responsibilities, is set out on pages significantly affect them.
The key risks facing the Company 60 to 65. are set out on pages 35 to 37.
Financial and business reporting During 2013, the Board further developed its procedures and embedded processes in respect of its Ethics, Health, In its reporting to shareholders the Board recognises its responsibility to present a fair, balanced and Safety, Environmental and Sustainability activities.
Current activities are described in the Corporate understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 45 sets Responsibility Review, on pages 28 to 34.
At Board level, the Chief Executive takes the lead on these matters.
out explanations for the basis on which the Company generates or preserves value over the longer term and The Board reviews the role of insurance and other measures the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company.
used in managing risks across the Company, receives Directors and Auditors Responsibility regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during A statement of the Directors responsibility for preparing the year and makes an annual assessment of how the risks the Annual Report & Accounts is included on page 87. have changed over the period under review.
A statement by the Auditor, KPMG LLP, setting out its The Board considers significant financing and investment reporting responsibilities, is included on page 88. decisions concerning the Company, including the giving of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and Going concern control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
At the The Directors consider that the Company has adequate year-end, following the review by the Audit Committee of resources to continue in operational existence for the internal financial controls and of the processes covering foreseeable future and accordingly, they have adopted other controls, the Board evaluates the results of the a going concern basis in preparing the financial internal control and risk management procedures statements of the Group and the Company.
This includes a self-certification exercise by which senior financial and How does the Board identify Alents significant risks?
operational management throughout the Company certify Risk management and assessment and internal the effectiveness of the system of internal controls within the control systems businesses for which they are responsible, together with The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment their compliance throughout the year with the Companys and maintenance of the Companys system of risk policies and procedures.
management and internal control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
REMUNERATION The Boards process for identifying and evaluating Alents How do we decide what Directors are paid?
significant risks, its risk management and assessment system Executive compensation and risk and its internal control system form part of the Audit All the independent Non-executive Directors serve on both Committee Report on pages 60 to 65.
The Audit Committee the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
They are assists the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the therefore able to bring their experience and knowledge of Companys system of internal control, including financial, the activities of each Committee to bear when considering operational and compliance controls, and risk the critical judgments of the other.
This means that the management systems.
Directors are in a position to consider carefully the impact The Companys systems and controls are designed to of incentive arrangements on the Companys risk profile provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any and to ensure the Companys remuneration policy and problems are identified on a timely basis and are dealt programme is structured so as to accord with the long-term with appropriately.
objectives and risk appetite of the Company.
58 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS How does our Board engage with our shareholders Who are our major shareholders and ensure that it is aware of shareholders views?
The Board believes that it is a priority to communicate % of shareholders with shareholders and uses various methods to reach as many shareholders as possible.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Head of Investor Relations to meet with the Companys major institutional investors in the UK, the US and Continental Europe.
The Board also seeks to ensure effective engagement with shareholders through the Companys regular communications, the AGM, as well as through Capital Markets Days to provide the Companys stakeholders with more detailed insight into the Companys future strategy and investment proposition and other investor relations activities.
1m & above 50k-100k In addition, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee commenced, in the first quarter of 2014, meetings with key 500k-1m 40k-50k institutional shareholders and their representative bodies to 200k-500k 30k-40k discuss the proposals for the Companys new remuneration 100k-200k 20k-30k policy, and further meetings will be held during the year.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C ON T IN UE D The Companys investor relations programme is managed AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, together with the Investor Relations Manager.
The majority of meetings Members with investors are led by them, but the Chairman, Senior Mark Williamson Committee Chairman Independent Director and other Directors are also available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
At these Dr Emma FitzGerald meetings, investors are offered the opportunity to meet with Nel Harwerth the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director, and indeed the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director Jan Oosterveld held joint and separate meetings with several shareholders during the course of the year.
AUDIT COMMITTEE STATEMENT The Company reports its financial results to shareholders Membership The Committee comprises independent Non-executive twice a year, with the publication of its Annual and Directors under my Chairmanship and meets at least four Half-Yearly Financial Reports and will issue two further times during the year.
The Board also considers that the trading updates each year with the publication of its Audit Committee members together possess the necessary Interim Management Statements.
In conjunction with these commercial, financial and audit expertise to help them announcements, presentations or teleconference calls assess effectively the complex accounting, audit and risk will be held with institutional investors and stock market issues they have to address.
Recordings of these will be made available on the Companys website www.
com along with copies The Board considers that I have recent and relevant of any presentation materials issued.
financial experience, as required by the Code.
Regular updates on shareholder issues and discussions Appointment on the Audit Committee is for a period of three years, extendable by no more than two additional are provided to the Board.
Board members continue to three-year periods.
receive copies of significant analysts notes issued on the Company.
All Directors are expected to attend At my invitation, the non-independent Non-executive the Companys AGM, providing shareholders with the Director Lars Frberg, the Chairman of the Company, the opportunity to question them about issues relating to Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Companys the Company, either during the meeting or informally.
Auditor, KPMG LLP, regularly attend meetings.
Other executives, including in particular the Group Financial Annual General Meeting Controller and the Head of Internal Audit, are invited to Communication with private shareholders is largely through attend as and when appropriate.
The Committee regularly the AGM, which is held at a central London location.
meets separately with each of KPMG, the Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit without others being present.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the Chairman of each Board Committee Key Objectives during the AGM and to meet the Directors informally.
The objectives of the Committee are: Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on a poll for to provide effective governance over the appropriateness each item of business and shareholders are asked to vote of the Groups financial reporting including the adequacy for, against or vote withheld on each resolution.
Votes of related disclosures, the performance of both the are counted and an announcement confirming whether internal audit function and the external auditor, and the each resolution was passed at the AGM is made through management of the Groups systems of internal control, the London Stock Exchange and can be viewed on the business risks and related compliance activities: and Alent website, together with a summary of the number of votes cast in respect of each resolution.
The majority of to monitor the integrity of financial reporting and shareholders have elected to access the Annual Report to assist the Board in its review of the effectiveness and other shareholder documents online via the Alent of the Companys internal controls and risk website rather than receiving a copy by post.
60 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Key Matters Considered by the Audit Committee Committee meetings The Committee met five times during the year.
The Audit in 2013 Committee members comprise the independent Nonreview of the Companys Half-Yearly and Annual executive Directors, other than the Board Chairman under Results Announcement Annual Report and Accounts, my Chairmanship.
In doing so, the Committee received reports from management on significant aspects of Main activities of the Committee during the year the Companys financial statements, including matters The Committee assists the Board in carrying out its requiring significant management judgment, asset responsibilities in relation to financial reporting impairment valuation, amounts reported at fair value, requirements, risk management and the assessment of off-balance sheet items and contingent liabilities, and internal controls.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the reports from the Auditor identifying any accounting or Companys internal audit function and manages the judgmental issues thereon requiring its attention: Companys relationship with the external Auditor.
receipt of reports from the Head of Internal Audit As part of this process of working with the Board and covering, among other things, the work undertaken by to maximise effectiveness, meetings of the Committee the internal audit function and management responses generally take place just prior to a Company Board to proposals made in the audit reports issued by the meeting.
I report to the Board as part of a separate function during the year.
The Committee also reviewed agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters the results of an assessment which will be undertaken of of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their the performance of the internal audit function and the work.
All members of the Board receive the agenda, papers Committee reviewed and approved the internal audit and minutes of Audit Committee meetings.
plan, submitted by the Head of Internal Audit: Following the publication of the revised version of the UK reviewed periodically the Auditors control findings: Corporate Governance Code, which applies to financial reviewed the results of an assessment undertaken of the years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the Board performance of the Auditor, based upon feedback requested that the Committee advise them on whether we received from the Companys corporate and divisional believe the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a finance management: whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides reviewed and agreed the audit plan presented by the information necessary for shareholders to assess the the Auditor, which will detail the approach and scope Companys performance, business model and strategy.
of the work to be undertaken and the level of fees to The Audit Committee operates under formal terms of be charged: reference that are reviewed on a regular basis.
reviewed the risk management process operated by These terms of reference, which are available on the management designed to identify the key risks facing Companys website, www.
com, authorise the each business and how those risks were being managed: Committee to obtain outside legal or other independent reviewed reports from management which address the professional advice at the cost of the Company and to appropriateness of the production of the Company secure the attendance at Audit Committee meetings of financial statements on a going concern basis: other parties with relevant experience and expertise reviewed the Companys procedures for the should it be considered necessary.
identification, management and control of specific areas At its five meetings during the year, the Committee focused of risk which impact the Group and the Company: on financial reporting, risk management, external audit, as a matter of routine, the Audit Committee was governance and other matters, and internal audit and presented with information on any significant litigation internal control systems.
involving the Company: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: monitoring and reviewing the Auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional and regulatory requirements: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and dismissal of the Auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Auditor: and helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor by providing a direct channel of communication between it and the Non-executive Directors.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C ON T IN UE D Financial reporting presentation from the Groups Director of Taxation highlighting the key tax risks that the Group faces, the tax strategy, the tax The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial controls, the assumptions and judgments underpinning the reporting is to review with both management and the level of tax provisioning and the recognition of deferred tax external auditor the appropriateness of the half-year and assets.
The Committee also reviewed reports prepared by the annual financial statements concentrating on, amongst external auditor on tax provisions, deferred tax and effective other matters: tax rates.
In particular, the Committee reviewed and the quality and acceptability of accounting policies challenged managements assumptions and judgments that and practices: sufficient future taxable income will be realised by the Groups the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with US operations, thereby supporting the recognition of a financial reporting standards and relevant financial deferred tax asset in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts in relation to previously unrecognised tax losses in the US.
and governance reporting requirements: The Committee is satisfied with both the level of tax provisions material areas in which significant judgments have and the deferred tax assets recognised in the financial been applied or there has been discussion with the statements.
The Committee is also satisfied with the external auditor: presentation of the recognition of the US deferred tax asset whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as as an exceptional tax item in the Group income statement a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and as described in note 11 of the financial statements.
provides the information necessary for shareholders THE CARRYING VALUE OF GOODWILL AND PROPERTY, to assess the Companys performance, business model PLANT AND EQUIPMENT and strategy: and Judgment is required to determine the extent to which any correspondence from regulators in relation to our goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance of financial reporting.
each of the Groups cash-generating units CGU over future periods.
To assist in making this judgment, an To aid our review, the Committee considers reports from the assessment of the recoverable amount of each of the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and also Groups CGUs is undertaken to support the carrying value reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of its of goodwill.
The Committee reviewed the analyses prepared half-year review and annual audit.
As a Committee we by management, including the assumptions underpinning support KPMG LLP in displaying the necessary professional the calculations and the sensitivity analysis on the available scepticism their role requires.
The Committee also considered the external The primary areas of judgment considered by the auditors testing thereof, including the sensitivity of the Committee in relation to the 2013 accounts, and how outcome of impairment testing to the use of different discount these were addressed, were: rates.
On the basis of the evidence reviewed, and given the recoverable amounts of each of the Groups CGUs being LITIGATION AND OTHER LIABILITY RESERVES significantly higher than their carrying values, the Committee The Group has a small number of litigation and other liability concluded that there was no impairment to goodwill.
The level of provisioning for liabilities for known Details of the key assumptions and judgments used are set and probable costs resulting from both legal and other out in note 17 to the financial statements.
In addition to regulatory requirements and the disclosure of contingent goodwill, where specific indications of a potential impairment liabilities are issues where both management and legal to the Groups property, plant and equipment are present, judgments are important.
The Committee addressed these calculations are prepared by management to support the issues by reviewing the background to the provisions, carrying value of the asset in the Group balance sheet.
reviewing reports prepared and presented by the Groups During 2013, a small number of specific assets were reviewed Vice President & General Counsel, discussing and with a potential indication of impairment.
Again, after due challenging the key judgments with management in challenge and debate the Committee concluded that no determining the value of provisions required, reviewing any impairment of the Groups property, plant and equipment regulatory laws or judgments, considering any legal advice was required.
that may have been received and taking into account the audit work performed by KPMG.
The Committee enquired DISCLOSURE OF EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS of management and the external Auditor as to the existence As detailed in note 2.6 of the financial statements, items of an of other matters potentially requiring a provision to be made.
exceptional nature are disclosed separately on the face of After due consideration of these matters the Committee the Groups income statement.
Management consider both concluded that it is satisfied with the level of provisioning in materiality and the nature and function of the item in the financial statements and the disclosures pertaining to deciding whether an item warrants such exceptional contingent liabilities as shown in notes 30 and 33 in the disclosure.
The Committee review the disclosure of Annual Report and Accounts.
exceptional items in the financial statements on an individual basis to establish that all such items fall within the Groups TAXATION policy for reporting exceptional items as previously agreed by The level of tax provisioning and the recognition of deferred the Committee and approved by the Companys auditor.
In tax assets in relation to unutilised tax losses, require particular, the Committee considered the presentation of assumptions and judgments from management.
each exceptional item as detailed in notes 8 and 11 of the The Committee reviewed reports and received a 62 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION financial statements.
These included both restructuring The key features of the Companys system of internal and taxation exceptional items.
After due challenge and controls include: debate, the Committee is satisfied that the presentation Strategy and financial reporting of exceptional items in the financial statements is in The Company operates a comprehensive strategic accordance with the Groups exceptional items policy, planning and forecasting process, with an annual budget provides a fair, balanced and understandable position and approved by the Board.
Monthly operating financial provides the information necessary for users to assess the information is reported against this budget and key Companys performance on a consistent, continuing basis.
Action is then taken Risk management and assessment and internal as appropriate.
control systems Company accounting policies and procedures are The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the formulated and disseminated to all Company operations, effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, covering the application of accounting standards and the including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
maintenance of accounting records and key financial control procedures.
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of the Companys system of risk Operational controls management and internal control, and for reviewing its Each operating company, including the Divisional effectiveness.
This system is designed to manage, rather and Corporate offices, maintains internal controls and than eliminate, the risks facing the Company and safeguard procedures appropriate to its structure and business assets.
No system of internal control can provide absolute environment, whilst complying with Company assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The policies on items such as the authorisation of capital Companys system is designed to provide the Directors with expenditure, treasury transactions and the management reasonable assurance that any problems are identified on a of intellectual property.
timely basis and are dealt with appropriately.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, the Directors confirm that In addition, the Companys financial reporting process, they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys including the preparation of the Companys consolidated system of internal control and that the necessary actions financial statements, incorporates the dissemination and have been taken to remedy and control any control use of common accounting policies and procedures and weaknesses identified during the year.
Since the date of this financial reporting software.
review there have been no significant changes in internal The Board considers significant financing and investment controls or other matters which could significantly affect decisions concerning the Company, including the giving them.
The key risks facing the Company are set out on of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and pages 36 to 37. control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by Alent.
Company Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls management operates a risk management process The internal control system is monitored and supported by designed to identify the key risks facing each business and the Companys internal audit function.
This function assists reports to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
management and the Board in the effective discharge of As a basis for this report, each of the Companys major their responsibility for internal control by conducting reviews business units produces a risk map which identifies their of Alents businesses and reporting objectively both on key risks and assesses the likelihood of those risks occurring, the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal their impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to control in place and as to whether those businesses are manage those risks to a desired level.
The Board has in compliance with applicable Company policies and enhanced its risk management structure and processes procedures.
The Audit Committee receives reports from during 2013 as well as its procedures, and embedded the Head of Internal Audit on a regular basis and reports processes in respect of its Ethics, Health, Safety, to the Board on the results of its review.
Current activities are described in the Corporate Responsibility Review, on pages 28 to 34.
At Board level, the Chief Executive currently takes the lead on these matters.
The Board reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Company and receives regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C ON T IN UE D As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness of the objectivity of the Auditors views on the controls the system of internal control, it delegates the following matters throughout the Company: to the Audit Committee to be carried out during the year: its ability to coordinate a global audit, working to tight deadlines: review of external and internal audit work plans: consideration of reports from management, internal audit the cost-competitiveness of the Auditor in relation to the and external audit on the system of internal control and audit costs of comparable UK companies: any significant control weaknesses: and the tenure of the incumbent Auditor: and discussions with management on the actions taken on the periodic rotation of the senior audit management problem areas identified by Board members, in internal assigned to the audit of the Company.
audit reports or in external audit management letters.
In addition, the Audit Committee considers external reviews At the year-end, following the review by the Audit Committee of the performance and quality of the Auditor, including: of internal financial controls and of the processes covering the Annual Report issued by the Audit Inspection Unit of the other controls, the Board evaluates the results of the internal Financial Reporting Council on the work of the Auditor: control and risk management procedures conducted by senior management.
This includes a self-certification the Auditors own annual Transparency Report: and exercise by which senior financial and operational evaluations of the effectiveness of the external management throughout the Company certifies the audit process.
effectiveness of the system of internal controls within the businesses for which they are responsible, together with their KPMG LLP has been the Companys Auditor since the compliance throughout the year with the Companys demerger from Cookson plc on the 19 December 2012. policies and procedures.
The Company is following the finalisation of draft EU legislation and implementation of the decisions of the UK Internal audit Competition Commission in relation to auditor tenure in The Companys internal audit function operates on a order to ensure our compliance with these requirements as global basis.
The Head of Internal Audit is responsible for they become clear, as well as the current Code requirement developing the function, within the framework of common to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every Company policies and standards, and for carrying out ten years.
The Audit Committee is recommending the assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan Auditor for reappointment at the AGM in 2014. approved by the Audit Committee.
In 2013, 24 internal audit assignments were undertaken covering approximately The terms on which the Auditor is engaged do not include 30%, of the applicable businesses as required by the Audit any contractual obligations which would prevent the Charter.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Directors appointing a different audit firm should this be Audit Committee Chairman with functional responsibility to considered appropriate.
The Audit Committee receives reports INDEPENDENCE AND OBJECTIVITY OF AUDITOR from the Head of Internal Audit and reports to the Board on The Audit Committee is cognisant of the need to ensure the results of its review.
that the independence and objectivity of the Auditor is External Audit continually maintained.
It has put in place safeguards to APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR ensure that the independence of the external Auditor is The Audit Committee is responsible for making not compromised.
These safeguards include: recommendations to the Board in relation to the seeking ongoing confirmation that the Auditor is appointment, reappointment and removal of the Auditor.
independent of the Company in its own professional In undertaking this duty, the Committee takes into judgment: and consideration a number of factors concerning the Auditor considering all the relationships between the Auditor and and the Companys current activity, including: the Company, including those relating to the provision of the quality both of reports provided by the Auditor to the non-audit services and whether these impair, or appear Audit Committee and the Board, and of advice given: to impair, the Auditors judgment or independence.
the level of understanding demonstrated of the Companys businesses: the independence of the Auditor, in light of the provision of non-audit services: 64 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION NON-AUDIT SERVICES Approach to anti-bribery and corruption training The Alent Code and its policies on anti-bribery and The Audit Committee monitors the other services being corruption require that employees and others working on provided to the Company by the Auditor.
The Company behalf of the Company do not engage in any form of has a policy governing the Company-wide conduct of bribery or corruption.
non-audit work by the Auditor to ensure that this does not impair its independence or objectivity.
The Auditor is Our anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme prohibited from performing services where it: has been implemented globally via an e-learning training module.
New employees, as relevant, are required may be required to audit its own work: to complete the e-learning training as part of their would participate in activities that would normally be induction process.
undertaken by management: The compliance programme includes undertaking risk is remunerated through a success fee structure: or assessments and engaging with others working on behalf acts in an advocacy role for the Company.
of the Company to ensure that their standards comply with The policy sets out the categories of work that the Auditor is the Companys policies.
Other than these, the Company The Alent Code is reproduced in full on the Groups website does not impose an automatic prohibition on the Auditor www.
The Auditor is eligible for selection to provide non-audit services that are not, or are On behalf of the Audit Committee not perceived to be, in conflict with Auditor independence, provided it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Company.
Recruitment to the Company of any new employee who MARK WILLIAMSON had been employed by the Auditor in the past five years CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE requires the approval of the Audit Committee.
4 MARCH 2014 Proposals for any non-audit related fees which the Company is intending to pay to the Auditor are presented to the Audit Committee.
Any individual assignment where the fee is likely to be in excess of 30,000 must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
Where appropriate, services are tendered prior to awarding work to the Auditor.
Details of the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 7 on page 103.
Committee evaluation The Committee conducts a formal review of its effectiveness annually and concluded that its performance was effective.
Details of the Board and Committee evaluation process can be found on page 56.
Employee helpline This is an independent and confidential service through which employees worldwide may register any concerns about any incorrect or irregular practices they perceive in Alents workplaces.
The helpline is operated 24 hours a day, seven days a week, by an organisation that specialises in the provision of such services.
It can be contacted by phone, email or via a designated website.
Translation facilities are available for those for whom English is not their first or preferred language.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C ON T IN UE D The Nominations Committee utilises, where appropriate, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Members the services of executive search firms to identify appropriate candidates and will only use those firms that Nol Harwerth Committee Chairman have adopted the Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search assignments.
Dr Emma FitzGerald Wherever possible, the Nominations Committee will Jan Oosterveld arrange for all Directors to meet with the preferred candidate.
The Nominations Committee makes Mark Williamson recommendations for each appointment to the full Board.
Care is taken to ensure that all proposed appointees have The Remuneration Committee members are the sufficient time available to devote to the role and do not Independent Non-executive Directors excluding the Board have any conflicts of interest.
The Committees principal roles are to set the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, the Executive The Nominations Committee reviews the Companys Directors and the Company Secretary, and to monitor the succession plans for members of the Board.
The Board as levels and structure of remuneration below Board level.
a whole also considers this subject.
Both of Alents divisions Further details of the Remuneration Committee and its submit detailed succession plans in respect of senior activities are provided in the Directors Remuneration divisional executives to the Board for review each year.
The Chair of the Remuneration The Board also considers succession planning for senior Committee reports the outcome of Committee meetings corporate executives.
The Nominations Committee also considers diversity generally across the Company.
It is the Companys aim to NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT maintain an appropriate level of diversity on the Board to Members reflect the diverse nature of the Companys operations, Peter Hill Committee Chairman and the and to increase the level of diversity in executive Non-executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee advises the Board on The Board fully supports the recommendations of the appointments to, and retirements and resignations from, Davies Report entitled Women on Boards.
the Board, and reviews the Companys succession plans.
The Board actively seeks to meet with key executives The members of the Nominations Committee are the Chairman, and the Non-executive Directors.
The Committee throughout the Company so as to gain a greater understanding of the breadth and depth of management meets as and when required and is chaired by the Chairman or a Non-executive Director.
This enables members of the Committee to adopt a more informed approach to succession planning.
would not act as Chairman of the Nominations Committee where it was dealing with the appointment of his successor.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee reports Formal meetings will be held to consider standing items of the outcome of Nominations Committee meetings to business: there is also expected to be a significant level of the Board.
ad-hoc discussion between members of the Nominations Committee, particularly when a recruitment exercise On behalf of the Nominations Committee is taking place.
PETER HILL, CBE When considering the appointment of new Directors, the CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Nominations Committee draws up a specification, taking 4 MARCH 2014 into consideration the diversity of the Board, the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, the independence of Board members and the ongoing requirements of the By Order of the Board Company.
The Nominations Committees foremost priority SIMON OHARA will be to ensure that the Company has the best possible COMPANY SECRETARY leadership.
Its prime responsibility is to ensure the strength 4 MARCH 2014 of the Board.
Board appointments will be made on merit against objective criteria, selecting the best candidate for the post.
66 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
