Corporate Governance Report continued Nominations Committee Report Dear Shareholder, I t ake great satisfaction in seeing In this years Annual Report, we have taken Looking beyond how the Board has benefited from the Cycle as our theme.
As the global mining sector moves into a new and more challenging phase, we continue with the shared experience of working our strategy, which takes a long-term perspective and is together as one team borne out of many years of history and experience in the mining sector.
Last year, I said that the Nominations Committee will continue to ensure that the Board provides the right leadership needs for the Company as it continues with its long-term growth strategy.
In addition, I also noted that taking this perspective would mean that change will not always be rushed.
That said, we have continued to develop the senior executive team within the Company through the appointment of Roberto Daz as Chief Operating officer in October 2013.
This appointment brings our senior executive team back up to full strength.
As far as the Board itself is concerned, I take great satisfaction in seeing how the Board has benefited from theshared experience of working together as one team irrespective of whether they are independent or not over the six years since the Companys IPO in 2008.
This shared experience builds on and enhances the individual skills, Mr Alberto Baillres background and perspectives that each Director brings to Chairman of the Nominations Committee the Board.
Although we will inevitably need to refresh the Board from time to time as we go forward, as indeed we have begun to do in 2014, I hope that we will not lose any ofthe benets of this long-term shared perspective as new Directors are appointed to the Board.
During the year, we have considered our policy on Board diversity as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our policy is set out in the Nominations Committee Report below.
The Nominations Committee and the Board totally support the principle of appointments whether at Board-level or elsewhere in our organisation being made on the basis of merit.
Neither gender, ethnicity or age are considered to be barriers to progress in our Company but neither are they, alone, good reasons to appoint anyone to the Board before they are ready.
For this reason, we have notset any measurable targets in our diversity policy.
Our broader initiatives for creating opportunities to develop a more diverse workforce are set out in the Sustainability Performance Report on page 90.
Yours faithfully Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Nominations Committee | 130 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements The Nominations Committee did not use open advertising or retain any Nominations Committee external consultants when making new appointments to the Board during Membership the year as such assistance was considered unnecessary considering the Companys contacts within Mexico.
The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Committee, Javier Fernndez and Fernando Ruiz.
Board Diversity Policy Statement The majority of the members of the Nominations Committee are, The Board consists of independent and non-independent Directors who, therefore, independent Non-executive Directors.
since the Companys listing in 2008, have developed a collegiate approach Role to overseeing the development of the Fresnillo Group in the interests of all shareholders.
The collective experience of the team is of equal importance The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the individual experience and perspectives that different Directors bring.
to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning for the Directors and other senior All Board appointments are made on merit, in the context of the skills and executives.
Before making appointments of new Directors, the experience the Board as a whole requires for it to be effective.
This is the Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge fundamental principle upon which Board appointments are and will be and experience on the Board and identifying and nominating suitable made.
In support of this, the Board recognises and embraces the benets candidates.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are of having a diverse board: particularly the value that different perspectives available on the Companys website at www.
and experience bring to the quality of board debate and decision-making.
This will be taken into account when determining the optimum The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are made composition of the Board.
available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce, during normal business hours.
In view of the Fresnillo Groups status as the worlds leading silver mining company and Mexicos second largest gold mining company, with shares Activity during 2013 traded on the London and Mexico Stock Exchanges, there are certain The Nominations Committee met twice during the year and considered diversity considerations which need to be incorporated into the composition the following matters: of the Board and which will, if the right balance is achieved, ensure that the Board is a diverse Board.
These emphases are summarised as follows: Approval of the 2012 Nominations Committee Report prior to publication A policy on Board diversity Background andexperience Succession plans for each member of the Executive Committee As a mining company: there needs to be sufficient experience on mining and engineering on the Board.
There also needs to be The appointment of a new Chief Operating officer experience of the markets, politics and commercial environment in The current membership of the Board and Board Committees Mexico and Central Southern America.
However, as a UK-listed The time commitment required from each Director company, there also needs to be international experience of capital markets, accounting and regulation represented on the Board.
The proposed re-election of each of the Directors at the Annual General Meeting and the continuation of letters of appointment Age fortheNon-executive Directors As a Group which takes a long-term perspective, the age prole of the A self-evaluation exercise Board needs to recognise the value that older Directors bring through their experience and knowledge accumulated over the years: and the Since the end of 2013, the Nominations Committee has been considering value that younger Directors bring through their understanding of new the membership of the Board being mindful of the requirements of Code ideas and energy for change which encourages innovation.
As a consequence, two new Directors will be recommended for election to the Board at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Gender Despite the traditional male-dominance of the mining sector, the Board Board Appointments Policy and Process recognises the increasing prole that women are being encouraged to The Nominations Committee and the Board are committed to the take within the industry.
This will be reected in the composition of the principle of appointments to the Board being made on the basis of merit.
Board and in the Groups training and development programmes.
The criteria for determining the composition of the Board and future Shareholders Board appointments continues to be based on: The Relationship Agreement requires that there is a balance between The Relationship Agreement requirements for appointments to the shareholder nominated Directors and independent Directors who are Board by Peoles able to present the independent investor perspective in Board discussions.
The Companys leading position as a precious metals miner in Mexico The Board considers that whilst this diversity policy establishes important The Companys inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index principles which must underpin the composition of the Board, it believes The specic functions on Board committees which independent that setting targets for the number of people from a particular background Directors will be required to full is not the most effective approach to take.
The Board will therefore look to follow the principles of this policy rather than specified quotas or targets.
The criteria set out in the current terms of reference of the Nominations Committee The Corporate Governance Report has been approved by the Board The process for making new appointments to the Board is led by the of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
Potential candidates are considered on the basis of their skills Signed on behalf of the Board.
and experience and their t with the blend of skills of the rest of the Board.
Lord Cairns The Board Appointments Policy provides a frame of reference for the Senior Independent Director process.
The candidates identied by the Chairman are presented to the 3 March 2014 Nominations Committee for approval prior to being recommended to the Board for appointment.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 131
