Corporate Governance Report continued The HSECR Committee evaluates the effectiveness of the Companys Board Independence policies and systems for identifying and managing HSECR matters within The Board consists of 12 Non-executive Directors.
Six are considered the Companys operations.
As such, management reports to the HSECR to be non-independent and six are considered to be independent: Committee on such matters.
The members of the HSECR Committee are as follows: Rafael Mac Gregor Chairman of the Committee, Javier Fernndez and Jaime Lomeln.
Meetings are also attended by various operational and unit Non-independent Independent managers.
The letter from the Chairman of the HSECR Committee on Alberto Baillres Lord Cairns page 76 sets out the activities of the HSECR Committee during the year.
Chairman and Chairman Senior Independent Director and The Report of the Remuneration Committee the Directors Remuneration of Nominations Committee Chair of Remuneration Committee Report sets out the responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration Alejandro Baillres Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala Committee during the year and can be found on pages 132-143.
Juan Bordes Javier Fernndez Board composition and independence Arturo Fernndez Fernando Ruiz Rafael Mac Gregor Fernando Solana Board membership Chair of HSECR Committee As at 31 December 2013, the Board consisted of 12 Directors thenon-executive Chairman, Alberto Baillres, six independent NonJaime Lomeln Guy Wilson executive Directors and five non-independent Non-executive Directors.
Chair of Audit Committee Details about the current Directors of the Company and summaries of The Board considers Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala, Lord Cairns, the experience and perspective that they bring to the Board are set out Javier Fernndez, Fernando Ruiz, Fernando Solana, and Guy Wilson to be on pages 109 and 110. independent in character and judgement.
For each of these Directors, their circumstances are assessed by reference to Provision B.
1.1. of the Board balance and roles Code and the Board remains satisfied that they are each independent The composition of the Board has been structured to ensure that no one when the scenarios set out in Code Provision B.
individual can dominate the decision-making processes of the Board.
The non-independent Directors listed above have been appointed The Chairman, Mr Baillres, is beneficially interested in more than 50% to the Board by Peoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
of the share capital of the Company through his interest in Industrias Thus, the Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
B fide C. V Peoles, the Companys controlling shareholder.
However, Mr Baillres has been responsible for overseeing the successful Mr Baillres is also the Chairman of Peoles and other companies within development of the Fresnillo Group over many years and, therefore, the the BAL Group.
Board considers that his continued involvement as its non-executive Peoles has entered into a relationship agreement with the Company Chairman is very important to the Company.
which ensures that decisions in relation to transactions with Peoles must The Relationship Agreement continues to provide a transparent be taken by the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company.
governance system, which ensures that the Company benets from The key provisions of the Relationship Agreement are summarised later Mr Baillres leadership and experience whilst being able to demonstrate in this section.
to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capable of carrying on The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its business independently.
In particular, the Relationship Agreement its effectiveness as to all aspects of its role.
ensures that transactions and relationships between the Fresnillo Group and its major shareholder are at arms length and on competitive The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive officer are commercial terms.
Since that time, the Board has sought to build on that recognised and the requirements for these roles have been specified system.
Thus the duties of the Audit Committee have since been expanded in writing and agreed by the Board in the Statement of Responsibilities.
to ensure that financial aspects of related party transactions are reviewed Octavio Alvdrez, the Chief Executive officer, is not currently a member by that committee.
Fernando Ruiz has, since 2008, been a retired partner and consultant in The Senior Independent Director, Lord Cairns, is available to shareholders the rm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. a rm providing professional if they have concerns that have not been resolved through the normal services to the Company.
Guy Wilson retired as a partner of Ernst & Young channels of Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer LLP, the Companys auditors, in 2008.
Mr Wilson was not involved in the or Head of Investor Relations.
provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement.
| 114 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
