Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements The Company continues to recognise the value of being a member of Relations with shareholders the FTSE 100 Index and therefore on 3 May 2013, 19,733,430 new ordinary The Board seeks to ensure that the interests of minority shareholders in shares of US$0.50 each were admitted for trading on the London Stock the Company are properly respected and aligned with those of major Exchange to ensure that the Company was and remains compliant with shareholders.
As described on page 115, the Board maintains procedures the UK Listing Rules requiring constituents to maintain a minimum free for dealing with transactions with Related Parties as well as Directors oat of 25%.
The Companys sixth annual general meeting will be held on Friday 16 May The Company has an ofce in London where the Head of Investor 2014 at 12.00 noon.
The business of the Annual General Meeting AGM Relations is based.
The Group has implemented a strong communications will be conducted in accordance with the provisions B.
7.2, E. 2.1 and and investor relations programme and aims to meet major shareholders E. 2.2 of the Code.
The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of each and analysts at least twice a year to discuss the results of the Group and of the Board committees will be available to answer questions put forward to respond to any queries the shareholders may have.
The Head of to them by shareholders of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts Investor Relations in London maintains ongoing relations with analysts and and the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders major shareholders through telephone calls and meetings.
The Company at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
also uses a full programme of mining conferences to meet with current In planning the business of each AGM, the Board takes account of and prospective investors.
Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained institutional shareholder guidelines on pre-emption rights, share through the Investor Relations Ofce in Mexico City.
The Chief Executive buy-backs and shareholder rights in relation to general meetings when officer and Chief Financial officer participate in the major roadshows to drafting the usual resolutions dealing with those matters.
In each case, meet with analysts and shareholders.
They are joined by other members resolutions are presented to the AGM to give the Board exibility to of the Executive Committee for some of these visits.
The Head of Investor respond to market developments.
Relations, supported by the Chief Executive officer, gives a report at each Board meeting on communications and shareholder activity.
The principal investor relations and communications activities during 2013 are shown below.
Investor relation programme Investor Relations 2013 Major Industry Conference and Briengs Conference calls following the Production January Resultsannouncement February Roadshows following the Preliminary March Announcementin the UK, USA and Canada April Conference calls following the Production Report May BAML Global Metals & Mining Conference Site visits June July Interim Results roadshows in the UK August Denver Gold Forum, Credit Suisse September Global Steel and Mining Conference Conference calls following the October LME Week Production Results announcement November UBS Reverse Roadshow RBC Annual Silver Conference December Exploration day | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 119 Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee Report Following the constructive independent evaluation of Internal L ast year, I outlined five priorities Audit in 2012, there has been a realignment of their focus onto controls surrounding the major operating risks across foryour Audit Committee in 2013. the operating divisions which has greatly improved the Inow report on our progress so far.
quality of comparative observations between the different mining operations.
We continue to monitor the embedding of robust third party contractor processes which is now well advanced and is described in detail later in this report.
During 2013, the Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function through both its regular dialogue and discussion of reports as well as a review of progress against action plans following the previous years review.
An independent check on progress is planned for 2014.
In 2013, we obtained an independent external evaluation of Ernst & Young, who have been our external auditors since the IPO in 2008.
We are pleased to report that the overall findings were positive and the auditors are in the process of working with management to evaluate a number of suggestions for enhancement.
Following the favourable results of the evaluation, we do not envisage tendering the external audit until after the 2016 AGM.
With a major shareholder, we must ensure that all related party Guy Wilson transactions are at arms length and on commercial terms that Chairman of the Audit Committee are reasonable for all our shareholders.
The three major such arrangements, namely the shared services agreement, the Silverstream contract and the sales arrangement with Met-Mex, a subsidiary of Peoles, are discussed in the following report.
This year we have extended our review process to ensure that all other related party transactions Dear Shareholder, ofsignicant size, whether individually or in aggregate, are Our primary task is the oversight of the financial accounting benchmarked against alternative external suppliers.
Read more: and reporting of your company.
The risk For 2014, we assess our priorities as follows: With respect to the financial statements, the Financial management Continuing to monitor the development of the data Reporting Council FRC reviewed our 2012 Annual Report framework required to produce accurate KRIs on a timely basis and under their duty to review periodically those of all UK listed Page 42 encourage management to establish KRIs that are more companies.
I am pleased to tell you that the FRC informed relevant in assessing risk mitigation options us that it had no significant findings but had only minor Encouraging management to ensure that all our employees comments on two areas where it considered the accounting recognise that reporting inappropriate behaviour or actions policy wording could be more transparent.
We have is completely anonymous and that management will addressed these two areas in this Annual Report.
For 2013, support all such reports we have held discussions with management and Ernst & Young and reviewed several drafts of the Annual Report.
At the December 2013 Based on this process, inter alia, we have advised the Board Committee meeting, the Committee discussed the that, in our opinion, the 2013 Annual Report is fair, balanced implications of a proposal from management for a and understandable.
corporate reorganisation of a number of subsidiary undertakings which encompassed asset valuations, Last year, I outlined five priorities for your Audit Committee related party agreements, PTU and taxation.
In 2014, in 2013 in addition to our primary task of the oversight of wewill continue to monitor the implementation, financial accounting and reporting together with internal obtainingindependent opinions where appropriate controls, concentrating on the financial judgements in the Continuing to oversee managements review of land financial statements.
I now report on our progress so far.
titles to ensure that our legal titles remain valid whilst The risk management framework has evolved further this monitoring the progress of the situation at Soledadyear through the development of relevant key risk indicators Dipolos: together with our annual reviews of compliance KRIs against our identied risks, mitigating actions and with the conditions of the Groups mining licences controls.
Most of the data required to assist the evaluation Reviewing managements progress in rening the IT ofKRIs for regular reporting is in place but some data strategy so that it underpins the corporate strategy requires further renement.
Where the reporting of KRIs canbe determined now, they are proving an important Yours faithfully management tool in the pursuit of operational control ofrisk, albeit further work is required to enhance the predictive qualities of certain indicators.
Guy Wilson Chairman of the Audit Committee | 120 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
