Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Audit Committee Activity during 2013 The Audit Committee met five times in the year.
The activities of the Membership Audit Committee during 2013 are summarised in the following sections The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2013 were by reference to its duties, as set out above.
GuyWilson Chairman of the Committee, Fernando Ruiz and Fernando Solana.
Guy Wilson was previously a partner at Ernst & Young bringing Financial reporting aninternational audit and accountancy perspective as well as extensive The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting experience of capital transactions and corporate actions and is therefore is to review with both management and the external auditor the considered to have recent and relevant financial, auditing and accounting appropriateness of the financial statements concentrating on, amongst experience.
Further to the individual biographies on page 109, Fernando other matters: Solana and Fernando Ruiz have great experience of the economy and the business environment in Mexico.
In addition, Fernando Solana brings Monitoring the risks and associated controls over the financial international insight and Fernando Ruiz, many years knowledge of the reporting processes, including the process by which the Groups legal and tax environment, so together the Committee members contribute financial statements are prepared for publication a broad perspective to the issues they need to address.
The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices The CFO and representatives from external and internal audit attend all The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial meetings, with the CEO and other members of the Executive Committee reporting standards and relevant financial and governance and management attending where appropriate and also external advisors reporting requirements if relevant for specic matters.
Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied orthere has been discussion with the external auditor Role Whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is The role of the Audit Committee is set out in its terms of reference, a copy fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information of which can be found on the Companys website.
The terms of reference necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, set out the duties of the Audit Committee under the following headings: business model and strategy Financial Reporting Any correspondence from regulators in relation to our Risk Management and Internal Controls financial reporting Whistleblowing Procedures In reviewing the 2013 half-yearly report and the 2013 Annual Report prior I nternal Audit to recommending them to the Board for approval, the Committee, with E xternal Audit the assistance of management and Ernst & Young, identied a number Related Party Matters ofareas of particular focus being key areas of financial statement risk andjudgement for the Company.
These are outlined in the following table In order to assist the Committee to full their duties whilst implementing along with how we have addressed them: good corporate governance, the Committee has developed an Audit Committee Policy Manual which codifies the policies within the scope ofthe Audit Committees responsibilities.
This document will be reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The Audit Committee uses regular evaluation processes as a means ofensuring that the governance over the controls environment is appropriate.
Following the external independent evaluation of the Committee in 2011, in 2012 the Company Secretary facilitated the evaluation of the Audit Committee following up on the responses to the comments raised in the external evaluation in 2011 through a facilitated informal discussion among the members of the Committee.
As a result ofthat discussion, minor amendments to the terms of reference of the Committee were proposed to and approved by the Board in March 2013.
The Company Secretary has also facilitated a brief review by the Committee of its performance during 2013 and, specically reviewed whether the Committees revised terms of reference required any updating.
The Committee concluded that the terms of reference remained appropriate and that it received appropriate information to enable it to full its responsibilities thereunder.
An independent review ofthe Committees effectiveness is planned for 2014.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 121 Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee Report Description of focus area Audit Committee action Mineral reserves andresources The determination of mineral reserves and resources requires significant We also discussed with Mr Giles, head of exploration, and SRK, the estimate with regard to future characteristics of mineral ore. Changes in composition of the reserves and resources with a particular emphasis the economic environment and future outlook may change the economic on understanding the changes in the guidelines for determining them.
Metal price assumptions determine the cut-off We also obtained a deeper understanding of the integration of the grade for identifying economically viable ore bodies.
Moreover, this year reserves and resources within the financial statements.
management had to take account of new guidelines concerning the This is an area of key audit focus for Ernst & Young and we discussed categorisation of reserves and resources.
with them the results of their procedures: Reserves and resources, although not valued directly in our financial On the expertise and objectivity of SRK, who audit the reserves and statements, are a primary driver of Fresnillos market valuation, impact resources of the Group investors decisions and play a significant part in the calculations of the On the comparison of metal price assumptions used by management depreciation of mining assets, the mine restoration model and related in the determination of reserves and resources compared with prices provisions and underpin the calculations used to assess whether there assumptions in various accounting models used in preparing numbers is any impairment of mining assets.
As a result, inaccuracies in the in the financial statements estimation of reserves and resources would lead to broad implications The Audit Committee challenged the determination of mineral across the Annual Report and Accounts.
reserves and resources performed by management, which has been independently reviewed by SRK, and was satisfied with its accuracy.
Silverstream The Silverstream contract is a derivative financial instrument and is We challenged managements judgement that the recognition of a required to be reected at fair value at each balance sheet date.
fair value loss of US$53.98 million was within the range of acceptable valuation outcomes.
The fair value can be impacted by any of the valuation inputs, but is mostsensitive to the timing and volume of forecast production derived We, as part of our review of the Annual Report and Accounts, reviewed from the reserves and resources and production prole of the Sabinas the disclosures relating to the Silverstream contract including the mine, the estimated future silver price and the discount rate.
The Silverstream contract represents not only a large asset on our This is another key area of audit focus for Ernst & Young and we discussed balance sheet but, with such recently volatile precious metal prices, with them their procedures in auditing the accuracy of the model used in alsothe potential for change in its valuation can result in large, albeit the valuation and the key assumptions therein.
We were satisfied with the non-cash, amounts in our income statement.
conclusions from the procedures performed.
The Audit Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of the Silverstream in the financial statements.
Related party transactions including revenue recognition Transactions with related parties in the normal course of business may We always scrutinise all major related party transactions that require carry no higher risk than transactions with unrelated parties: however, independent Director approval to ensure that they are entered Fresnillo has a large controlling shareholder and as a result has very into transparently and conducted at arms length and thus treat all strong ties both to Peoles and the broader BAL group.
This year we extended our review to cover other related party transactions which individually or in aggregate amount to There is a risk that related party relationships could be taken advantage a significant size.
This is discussed in more detail in the section of this ofto manipulate earnings or otherwise distort our financial position.
report headed Transactions with Related Parties.
Furthermore related party transaction disclosure requirements are We also discuss Ernst & Youngs procedures to ensure revenue is onerous and there is a risk that disclosures in our financial statements recognised accurately.
Finally we review the relevant disclosures in the could be inaccurate or incomplete.
Annual Report and compare them with the related party transaction analysis that we have requested that management produce for us throughout the year.
The Audit Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of Related Party Transactions in the financial statements.
| 122 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Description of focus area Audit Committee action Impairment Adverse metals price volatility, reductions in reserves and resources, We challenged managements consistent use of assumptions used or operational issues potentially impact the recoverable value of within the impairment review.
mining assets in the consolidated financial statements of the Group This is a key area of focus for Ernst & Young and we have discussed with and investments in subsidiaries in the standalone Parent Company them the results of their procedures on the adequacy of the impairment FinancialStatements.
models used by management and on the assumptions therein.
We then With the current level of precious metal prices and their future discuss with management and Ernst & Young the headroom for each of progression uncertain, the risk of the book value of mining assets and the mining assets and investments in subsidiaries.
investment in subsidiaries becoming impaired has increased.
As for the El Bajio situation at Soledad-Dipolos, we have challenged The judgements in relation to impairment testing relate to the assumptions management over the Value In Use of our mining assets, and discussed underlying the calculation of the Value In Use of the mine being tested.
with Ernst & Young their opinion of the accounting judgements applicable and the appropriateness of disclosures.
The Audit Committee supported managements judgement not to record any impairment in mining assets but to record the impairment of investments in the Minera Mexicana a Cinega, SA fide CV and Exploraciones Parrea SA fide CV subsidiaries.
PTU and taxation There is a risk that deductions taken when calculating tax and PTU Our reviews of PTU and taxation have similar characteristics.
charges may be challenged, and that any resulting exposures to payable We review all thesignicant accounting and legal adjustments to the taxation and PTU may not have been provided for appropriately.
relevant operating profit subject to PTU or taxation for each subsidiary Whereas we do not consider that there is a risk of material misstatement which are clearly set out in papers prepared by management.
This is also of these numbers in the financial statements, in the current climate an area of focus for Ernst & Young, who report to the Committee on their it is important for us to ensure that our shareholders have adequate work in these areas.
information to conclude that the stated charges for PTU and taxation are We challenge managements and Ernst & Youngs views and ascertain fair and reasonable.
the degree to which such adjustments are supported by internal and or external subject matter experts to ensure that all are appropriate and properly evidenced.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the stated charges for PTU and taxation are fair and reasonable and adequately reected the effects of the new Mexican tax reform.
Going concern The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Groups ability to We read managements schedules supporting and explaining the inputs continueas a going concern for a minimum of 12 months from the and process underpinning the going concern assessment.
approval of the financial statements, which involves assessing whether, We challenged the sensitivities and stress testing that management in adverse circumstances, we have adequate liquid resources to full performed on the going concern forecast.
We considered Ernst & Youngs report on the adequacy of the cash A misstatement in going concern arises either i when the conclusion on ow models underlying this assessment and on the reasonableness of whether going concern is appropriate is incorrect or ii when the financial assumptions therein, including their consistency with assumptions and statements do not appropriately represent the conclusion.
If the financial estimates used elsewhere in the preparation of the financial statements.
statements do not appropriately reect the conclusions on going concern, We reviewed and evaluated the conclusions of the Boards assessment the effect is pervasive as it affects a significant number of accounts.
of going concern and the proposed disclosures in the financial statements.
With our production proles at each mine being relatively predictable and As a result of the procedures performed, we satisfied ourselves that with budgeted expenditure for capital investment and exploration being the financial statements appropriately reect the conclusions on necessary to achieve our strategy, our fundamental risk lies in metal prices going concern.
and foreign exchange, as PTU, tax and dividend policies are a mathematical calculation from reported operating results.
The increase in risk arising from falling metal prices was, however, offset this year as a result of the bond issue of US$800 million in November 2013.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 123 Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee Report Description of focus area Audit Committee action Licences and land title Land titles underpin all our mining activities as, without good title, we We have oversight over the progress of the review and throughout the would not be able to conduct our operations.
We consider that we had year have received verbal and written reports from the lawyers involved a robust process to ensure that all required legal documentation is in the process.
completed correctly on acquisition of land titles and this methodology The review has concentrated first on our existing mining areas and will has been in place for many years.
extend to all titles over the coming months, and save for the areas subject As a result of the current litigation at Soledad-Dipolos, however, to the El Bajio litigation, nothing significant has emerged so far.
management are undertaking a review of all our title documentation.
We are satisfied that there is no impairment in the mining assets Litigation and claims can give rise to uncertainty around the Groups at Soledad-Dipolos and relevant disclosures throughout the Annual ability to freely realise the benets of its assets and may give rise Report are appropriate.
to asset impairment The assessment of the appropriate level of legal provisions and narrative disclosures in the accounts requires assumptions on the legaloutcome of claims and estimates of costs The recent activities of the ejidarios may lead to not only Dipolos but also Soledad assets and operations being affected The review is a substantial task as there is a large volume of titles and potential complexities surrounding land ownership in Mexico arising from the various layers of legislation from State, agrarian to local government.
| 124 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Since 2008 the Audit Committee has rened its processes and methods The development of the risk governance system over the past two years to ensure that it is satisfied with the appropriateness of financial reporting.
now provides a robust framework enabling the Audit Committee and the Each year and half-year, the importance of these areas of focus is Board to evaluate continuously the risk prole of the Group and adapt re-assessed with management and Ernst & Young to ensure that they its focus in response to changes to the risk prole.
The Audit Committee remain valid areas of focus and that there are no other financial risk areas and Board formally reviewed the Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the to consider.
In undertaking their review of the 2013 half-yearly report, the Group prior to the publication of both the full year and interim financial Audit Committee sought to ensure that issues discussed during the review statements.
In 2013, this process resulted in the Board re-ordering the process for the 2012 full-year financial statements had been progressed risks to reect their view of the relative signicance of each risk in the and that there was consistency between the policies and judgements current environment in which the Fresnillo Group operates.
Further details used in preparing the full-year and half-year financial statements.
of the Risk Management System are set out on pages 42-53.
In February 2014, the Audit Committee reviewed the Annual Report and The Group has in place internal controls and risk management systems the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 prior to in relation to the Groups financial reporting process and the Groups recommending them to the Board for approval.
As part of that review process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These systems include process, the members of the Committee were provided with a draft of policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are the full Annual Report some weeks prior to a formal review by the Audit maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly to permit Committee at the February meeting enabling them to ensure that the the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
numbers therein are consistent with those in the financial statements or are The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal sourced from appropriate data.
More importantly, they can assess whether control, which includes risk management, and reviewing its effectiveness.
the words used are consistent with their understanding of the Companys The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and business obtained through Board and Audit Committee meetings: and manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the Groups other interaction that they have with management: using their experience objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal to assess whether the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced control, the Groups system is designed to meet its particular needs and and understandable.
This additional review by Audit Committee the risks to which it is exposed.
It is designed to manage risk rather than members, supplemented by advice received from external advisors eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable during the drafting process assists the Board in determining that the and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
report is fair, balanced and understandable at the time that it is approved.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of these controls.
The Audit Committee Risk management and internal controls reviews the system of internal control on an annual basis.
The day-to-day The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board not to replace responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the Groups it in matters of risk and risk management.
system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee is supported in this task by the The Boards role is primarily to consider whether a level of risk or a Internal Audit department.
specic risk is acceptable within the Companys strategy and risk appetite.
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for making sure The risk categories set out in the risk matrix were used as the basis for that internal control and risk management are effective, the detailed the process of reviewing the system of internal controls.
The Internal work is delegated to the Executive Committee.
The primary role of the Audit department obtained letters of representation from the Executive Audit Committee in relation to risk management and internal controls Committee and the executive management on the Groups system of is to review the effectiveness of risk management systems and related internal control.
internal controls to ensure that issues that have arisen are properly In December 2013, the Audit Committee agreed the process by which dealt with, and that going forward the systems are t for purpose.
the Board would undertake a review of the Groups system of internal The Audit Committee discharges its obligations primarily through: controls.
The outcome of that review was presented to the Audit Committee in February 2014, prior to submission to the Board which then decided Reassessing the adequacy of the top risks identied by management on the statement to be made about the review of the system of internal and procedures put in place to assess, quantify and mitigate control in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
these risks Reviewing the reports from the Internal Audit department on any issues identied in the course of their work Reviewing annually the Groups system of internal control, including the development of the Groups IT strategy Reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Reviewing reports from the external auditors on any issues identied in the course of their work, including an internal control report on control weaknesses | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 125 Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee Report There are a number of components to the system of internal controls Whistleblowing arrangements within the Company detailed below and assurance concerning the system of internal controls focuses on these components and the Audit The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the adequacy Committee ensures that this process accords with the guidance used of whistleblowing arrangements and ensuring that appropriate on external control, from time to time, by the Financial Reporting Council: investigation of any whistleblowing incidents has been undertaken.
Component of the system Basis for assurance The Groups arrangements for enabling employees to raise concerns of internal control about financial and non-financial improprieties have developed over the past few years, prompted in part by the requirements of the UK Bribery Act.
Updated twice annually by the An internal body called the Honour Commission has been established to Executive Committee and Internal oversee these arrangements.
The terms of reference of the Honour Audit department.
Commission also embrace the procedures adopted in response to the A framework of transaction and Reviews undertaken by the Internal Bribery Act, and money laundering.
The Honour Commission, comprised entity level controls to prevent and Audit department.
of the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating officer, the Compliance officer detect material error and loss.
currently the Chief Financial officer, the Director of Internal Audit, the A documented structure of Monitored and reviewed by the Vice President of Exploration and the Legal Manager.
The Audit Committee delegated authorities and Internal Audit department.
regularly receives reports from management concerning the discussions approvals for transaction and and decisions of the Honour Commission.
investment decisions, including The Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders to any with related parties.
anonymously via an independent third party report violations to the Controls and procedures set out in Monitored and reviewed by the Groups Code of Conduct.
The results are audited by an independent third the Companys Accounting Policies Internal Audit department.
party and classied in 25 different categories including but not limited to: and Procedures Manual.
high-risk conditions, violence, fraud, inappropriate use of condential information, accounting irregularities, conict of interest, client Operating policies and procedures.
Annual written representations complaints, theft, unethical treatment of clients, unethical treatment obtained from operational and of suppliers, discrimination, falsification of company records, improper functional management.
use of assets, bribery and sexual harassment.
Review process performed The Audit Committee is satisfied that the arrangements in place remain by the Executive Committee.
In early 2013, there were two reports of improper behaviour.
A programme of internal audit Reports prepared by the Internal Thereafter, however, there were no further reports received during the reviews conducted by the Groups Audit department are discussed rest of the year and management therefore continued to reinforce the Internal Audit department.
with management prior to importance it attaches to ethical behaviour throughout the organisation.
nalisation and reviewed by This has been implemented through presentations at all operational the Audit Committee.
levels, supported by employees completing questionnaires to demonstrate the level of their understanding of these requirements.
In the first two Following managements implementation of new controls over months of 2014, three reports have been recorded.
The Audit Committee contractors activities pursuant to the evaluation carried out in 2012, has requested that management evaluate whether there may be any the Audit Committee considers that the governance of contractors has cultural aspects that could be preventing such reporting, and if so, what substantially improved.
As a result, Internal Audits reports on these action should be taken to encourage anonymous reporting of any activities do not raise any issues of the level of seriousness of those such issues.
The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Internal Audit Committee at its February 2014 meeting, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls taking account of the matters The role of the Audit Committee is to review and monitor the Internal noted above.
On the basis of this review, the Board considers that the Audit function, amongst others through: measures that have been implemented to create an appropriate risk Ensuring that the internal auditors have a direct reporting line to the management framework are appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
Audit Committee The Board is committed to the continued development of its internal Closely monitoring the scope of services provided by Internal Audit control regime with a view to achieving and maintaining best practice by agreeing Internal Audits workplan up front and agreeing any levels of risk management and internal control for international mining subsequent changes to the plan companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Considering the level and quality of the resources within the department and its appropriateness to the needs of the Fresnillo Group Setting annual objectives and inuencing the priorities of the Internal Audit function Ensuring adequate recognition and development of the members of the team Periodically commissioning an external review of the Internal Audit department | 126 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Internal Audit services are provided to the Company under a Shared External auditor Services Agreement between the Company and Industrias Peoles S. A. fide C. V. The internal audit workplan for 2014 was presented to and approved The primary role of the Audit Committee is to oversee the relationship by the Audit Committee at its October 2013 meeting.
We reviewed the with the external auditor.
This is achieved through: resourcing of the internal audit function and it remains appropriate.
Reviewing the terms of engagement of the external auditor In the current year we have held meetings with Internal Audit and Approving audit plans and timescales prior to the year-end audit executive management to align the internal control environment with the discussing the external auditors materiality assessments in relation organisational growth of the Group.
This has been made easier by Internal to our financial statements Audits realignment of their focus onto the controls surrounding the major Challenging the risk and judgement area identication operating risks across the operating divisions that concern management.
Reviewing the reporting received from the external auditors and The Internal Audit team seek to complete audits of all the operating challenging the work done to test managements assumptions risks across all of the Fresnillo Groups mining assets on a regular basis.
in key areas of risk and judgement Particular focus continues to be placed on auditing the Companys new Approving representation letters given to the auditors mines to ensure that proper procedures are implemented from the by management beginning in those new operations.
The Audit Committee receives presentations and updates from the Group Internal Audit department Seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness of the at each of its meetings throughout the year.
At each meeting during audit process the year, the Audit Committee has focussed on the progress made by Periodically commissioning an external review of the external auditors management in dealing with red ag items raised during internal audit Considering the reappointment of the external auditors and their visits to ensure that the management responses to remediation are independence, including the rotation of the audit partner appropriate and timely.
Assessing the need for audit tendering During 2012, the Audit Committee asked the Internal Audit department to undertake a pan-Group review of third party contractor arrangements: As part of its review of the financial statements prepared by the a different approach to the previous mine-based internal audit approach.
Company, the Audit Committee reviewed the findings of the external The process for due diligence on suppliers has continued to be developed auditor in respect of the financial statements for the year ended and contractors are regularly reviewed by the Internal Audit function.
31December 2013 and in respect of the financial statements for the In 2013, it was decided that the financial controllers of the mining six-month period ending 30 June 2013. operations would now report to Group Finance rather than the mine managers.
Group Finance has appointed a senior finance manager to In 2013, in addition to its regular activities, the Audit Committee: coordinate the reporting of each mining financial controller.
As a result Accepted the auditors materiality assessments, but requested of these new reporting lines, there is, inter alia, much more transparency thatsignicant items below that level should be brought to our about the financial arrangements with third party contractors which attention tocover aggregation issues or qualitative grounds for allows best practice to be shared amongst all locations to ensure the furtherreview highest standards of control.
Challenged the auditors identication of significant risks The Head of Internal Audit meets with the members of the Audit The Audit Committee met with representatives from Ernst & Young Committee without management present at least twice a year and is without management present and with management without mandated to advise the Chairman of the Audit Committee if there are representatives of Ernst & Young present, to ensure that there are no any issues which he considers members of the Audit Committee should issues in the relationship between management and the external auditor be made aware of.
In 2012, the Audit Committee commissioned Independent Audit Limited During the year, the Audit Committee has monitored the increasing and to undertake an external review of the Internal Audit department.
evolving collaboration between Ernst & Young LLP and the Companys Overall, the assessment gave confidence to the Audit Committee that Internal Audit department which it believes is improving the efficiency the internal audit function is effective.
Some suggestions were made for of both the external and internal audit processes.
short-term developments and questions for consideration relating to longer-term development were also highlighted.
The findings of that review During the second half of 2013, Independent Audit Limited were were discussed early in the year during a meeting between the Chairman commissioned to undertake an external review of the external auditor.
of the Audit Committee, the Head of Internal Audit and the Internal Audit Thisinvolved extensive discussions with management and the auditors Manager.
A number of short-term actions were taken immediately.
In some including discussions at an operating company and our financial control areas further consideration was required, resulting in a draft proposal, centre in Torren: a review of audit plans and other papers provided to taking account of the realignment of Internal Audits focus since the issues the Audit Committee: and consideration of the approach of management were raised, which was discussed at the Audit Committee meeting in and auditors to certain audit judgements.
A detailed report was then December 2013 at which the Chief Executive officer was present.
Several submitted to the Audit Committee and the findings were discussed by aspects for the potential enhancement of the Internal Audit function are both the Committee Chairman and the reviewer with the Chief Financial currently being evaluated by management and Internal Audit.
officer and the External Audit Partner.
The final report was discussed at the Audit Committee meeting in December 2013 and a number of suggestions for enhancement, of which the audit process in Mexico was the principal area, are being evaluated by management and Ernst&Young.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 127 Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee Report In February 2014, the Audit Committee considered and recommended The Committee reviewed the levels of engagement of other audit rms the re-appointment of the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, to the and advisors at its October and December meetings.
Details of the fees Board prior to the Companys Annual General Meeting.
This review took paid to Ernst & Young LLP during the year as shown in note 28 to the into account the results of the auditor assessment process, the quality financial statements were US$2.2 million, and the fees paid to other ofthe work and communication by the external auditor and the level accountants and advisory rms were US$0.5 million.
The Committee also considers annually the contracts and commitments The Audit Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure that the arising from such engagements to ensure that they would not restrict external auditor maintains its independence and objectivity.
It has the Committees choice of potential external auditors in a tender process.
therefore reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has a policy Transactions with related parties in place in respect of the provision of non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor.
The engagement of the external auditor Peoles beneficially owns 75% of the Groups common shares and is to provide statutory audit, assurance, taxation and certain advisory controlled by the Baillres family.
As such, Peoles has and will continue services is pre-approved.
Any engagement of the external auditor to to have significant inuence over the affairs and operations of Fresnillo.
provide permitted services above US$150,000 is subject to the specic Further, Fresnillo is dependent on the Peoles Group for certain key approval of the Audit Committee.
This policy was confirmed at the operational services.
October 2013 meeting of the Committee.
Given the extensive related party relationships, the Audit Committees In October 2013, the Committee approved engaging the external auditor primary role is to ensure that transactions with related parties are to provide comfort on historical financial information contained in the conducted under normal market terms and conditions and offering memorandum in connection with the US$800m senior notes shareholders interests are safeguarded, by: issue in November 2013.
The Committee considered the proposal from Benchmarking data and information for related party transactions Ernst & Young to undertake this work in accordance with the non-audit over a certain threshold services policy and were satisfied that Ernst & Young were best placed to Assessing the type and purpose of related party transactions and undertake this work and that the nature of the work would not compromise ascertaining whether they are in the normal course of business Ernst & Youngs objectivity in respect of future audit work.
Reviewing the financial and commercial aspects of any transaction During the year the Audit Committee has considered future plans for both proposed between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group prior audit rm and audit partner rotation, taking into account the current to such matters being considered by the Independent Non-executive requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, associated Directors under the terms of the Relationship Agreement or in guidance from the Financial Reporting Council, together with the recent compliance with Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules proposals from the European Commission on audit rm rotation and Critically assessing and challenging the appropriateness of any tendering.
Ernst & Young LLP were appointed as auditor in 2008 and significant related party transactions and arrangements outside the Committee envisage tendering the external audit after the 2016 AGM the normal course of business so that an appointment can be made in October 2016 to take effect for the year commencing 1 January 2017 unless circumstances change.
The appointment would not be formally confirmed until the 2017 AGM so that the chosen rm would then be in place for the interim review in 2017 as their first audit review activity.
In terms of audit partner rotation, the incumbent will be replaced for the 2015 financial year when he will have held the position for five years.
| 128 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements The Shared Services Agreement is an agreement between the Company We receive and review a report from management, which analyses the and Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide C. V. Peoles under which a range of pricing structure of the Met-Mex contract by comparing proposed prices services are provided to the Company by Peoles.
We review the shared to comparable prices charged by Met-Mex to independent customers services agreement at each renewal, using external advisors to review andto those of other reneries taking account of ore composition and any revision in the legal terms, to benchmark the proposed pricing against transport costs to ensure that they are reasonable in all the circumstances tenders requested from numerous alternative suppliers and use before recommending them for independent non-executive approval.
managements experience of both past performance against the KPIs During the year, the Audit Committee considered the proposed charges in agreed and any enhanced or additional services required.
respect of the Met-Mex Arrangements for 2013.
Based on the satisfactory The Shared Services Agreement was initially put in place in 2009 and was outcome of that review, the Chairman of the Audit Committee renewed for five years with effect from 31 December 2012.
Extensive recommended to the Board that the independent Directors approve the work with external advisors was undertaken at the time to ensure that proposed charges for 2013 under the Met-Mex Arrangements, which they the scope of services to be provided was appropriate to the needs of the did in October 2013.
Fresnillo Group: that the pricing for services provided under the Shared There are other dealings with related parties in the ordinary course of Services Agreement were appropriately benchmarked and that the business but, although not requiring approval by independent Directors, arrangements were in the ordinary course of business, not on unusual where they, individually or in aggregate for a particular supply become terms and had been negotiated on an arms length basis.
The Audit of a certain size, we seek evidence that they too are conducted on an Committee presented this to independent Directors and was approved arms length basis.
The Audit Committee requisitioned and reviewed in March 2013. benchmarking data for such other related party activities which include Additionally this year, we reviewed and recommended the approval of inter alia cost of insurance cover, hire of aircraft and travel arrangement the independent Non-executive Directors to a specic one-off request costs and the Committee was satisfied that the arrangements are on a for additional resources under the same terms, conditions and hourly reasonable arms length basis.
rates to assist with our due diligence exercise to evaluate all our suppliers In December 2013, the Audit Committee reviewed a schedule of all the for the requirements of our anti-bribery and corruption programme.
Companys related party transactions during the year and were satisfied This was approved in July 2013. that all transactions listed were in the ordinary course of business.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 129
