Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors may raise concerns at meetings of the Board and, if Conicts of interests necessary, ask for such concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes.
The duties to avoid potential conicts and to disclose such situations Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company forauthorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter reserved for Director.
Each Director ensures that he she keeps these duties under theBoard.
A procedure has been established to enable Directors to review and informs the Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of any obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense change in their respective positions, such as new directorships taken on.
Each Director has completed a Directors List which sets out details ofsituations where each Directors interests may conict with those Board programme in 2013 ofthe Company situational conicts.
The Directors Lists have been The Board meets at least four times a year and has an established resubmitted by each Director as at 31 December 2013 and the Board programme of meetings.
A key feature of the Boards evaluation hasconsidered and authorised any new situational conicts identied discussions since the Company was formed has been a desire to focus inthese re-submitted lists.
In addition, Directors are reminded at the more time on strategy during the Board discussions.
Thus, as well as beginning of each Board meeting to notify the Board of any further the functions that it is required to perform as part of its annual cycle of conicts of interest in accordance with sections 175, 177 and 182 activity, the Board now allocates time at each of its scheduled meetings of theCompanies Act 2006. to strategic issues and discussion.
As a consequence, the key business ofthe Board at each of its main scheduled meetings this year was: Board process Meeting Regular activity Strategy The primary objective of the Board is to take responsibility for the Groups Key activity and approvals presentation long-term objectives and commercial strategy and to monitor the management of the Groups activities.
The Board also provides leadership March Approval of 2012 Results Precious Metals Market to the Fresnillo Group in establishing the values by which it will conduct and Annual Report itsbusiness.
During the year more time has been allocated to presenting April Board Lunch and Strategy Growth Strategy and discussing aspects of strategy as part of the normal agenda for each Discussion Free Float Board meeting.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the and Placing Boards decision which includes approvals of major expenditure and July Approval of Interim Sustainable Development investments and key policies.
This schedule was last revised in April 2011.
Results, Exploration and People Strategies A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board committees Budget and Forward at meetings during the financial year ended 31 December 2013 is set out Programme below.
All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico.
October Approval of 2014 Business Financial Strategy, The Company Secretary is responsible for preparing a draft agenda for Plan and Budget People Strategies and each Board meeting in conjunction with the Chief Executive officer and Extraordinary Dividend, Organisational Culture the Chief Financial officer.
The Chairman approves the final version of the Senior Notes Offering, Work Plan agenda.
Papers are usually circulated about five days before the Board Group Restructuring meeting concerned to give the Board sufficient time to consider the papers prior to the meeting.
The Board has received regular updates at its meetings regarding the litigation pertaining to the Ejido El Bajio agrarian community, where one Members of the Executive Committee are responsible for preparing ofMinera Penmonts mining operations is located and management papers in respect of strategic planning, policies and investment proposals willcontinue to report to the Board on this issue until its conclusion.
All proposals presented to the Board for its TheBoard has commenced reviewing the Companys risks in relation consideration under the Schedule of Reserved Matters are first toall its land rights as a result of the Ejido El Bajio litigation, mining considered and approved by the Executive Committee.
In so doing, the regulations, tax reform and security.
Executive Committee aims to ensure that any such proposals take into consideration those factors set out in section 172 of the Companies Act Between Board meetings Directors are provided with information 2006.
Matters that purely require Executive Committee approval are on important developments and issues e. g. reports on fatalities.
Led by the Chief Executive officer, members of the Executive Committee attend all of the Board meetings and present all of the papers on operational and financial matters.
The only discussions which members of the Executive Committee are not present for are discussions about management succession and the annual Board evaluation report discussion.
| 116 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
