Social and Sustainability Performance 4 Sustainability: Advance and Enhance the Sustainability of our Business 1 Community Relations 2 3 4 We strongly believe our communities are strategic partners.
Having their trust requires engaging them effectively and being accountable for our impacts.
We recognise that building trust is the only way to obtain and preserve our social licence to operate.
What we said we would do in 2013 What we did in 2013 What we plan to do in 2014 Consolidate institutional projects in surrounding Institutional projects and community activities have Increase our knowledge of the communities communities been implemented throughout our business units withaperception survey and a re-assessment following our Sustainability Agenda ofcommunity capabilities and opportunities Reinforce our stakeholder engagement processes incorporating best practices in the extractive industry Community Investment Review and upgrade our community investment US$ million strategy and policies Reinforce the training and competencies in 2.14 community relations agents and external affairs 3.14 2.14 Unify criteria between, explorations, projects and operating units 2012 2013 Community Relations Strategy Building good community relations relies on a solid Advance our Engage Develop with understanding of the community and a respect for its knowledge effectively the community customs and traditions.
We aim to understand the Identify and analyse Consultation Programme socioeconomic challenges of our communities as well as stakeholders Grievance of activities their competencies, the potential or realised impacts of our Social baseline mechanism Community operations, and their perception of our Group.
Advancing surveys Meetings investment our knowledge of the community is fundamental in guiding Evaluation of Registry of associations commitments our engagement efforts and setting favourable conditions with NGOs to develop with the communities.
Perception surveys Media monitoring | 88 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Advance our knowledge Land disputes We build our knowledge of the community by identifying our We operate in some regions in Mexico where communal land ejidos stakeholders and analysing their positions on material issues when we remains a form of land ownership.
During our land acquisition process, engage them directly or follow their position in the media.
Our bi-annual this form of social property is subject to a higher degree of uncertainty perception survey is a valuable control mechanism to get an independent with respect to ownership rights of land claimants who cannot be report onthe issues and perceptions of the communities as well as a identied as owners or users of the land physically or economically.
source tokeep our social baseline surveys up to date.
Recognising that Despite our efforts to implement respectful land acquisition processes many non-profit organisations have more competencies than us when and grievance mechanisms, some legal disputes may arise on communal it comes to developing projects with the communities, we always lands.
In 2013, we reported a significant land dispute at our Dipolos seekopportunities to partner with these NGOs.
A court decided to dissolve the negotiation agreement between the Group and Ejido El Bajo, requesting Penmont to return the land.
We have complied with the decision of the court.
Engaging effectively Our exploration teams establish the first contact between the community Community activities Community activities and the Group.
Through effective engagement and fair negotiations By strategic lever By business unit the Group obtains temporary access to the land and builds trust.
This contributes to the effectiveness of exploration campaigns while providing income opportunities for the communities.
Our business units use the knowledge we build to guide their engagement efforts.
This year our community relations guidelines were reviewed and released as part of our HSECR manual.
We constantly monitor best practices originating from the International Finance Corporation IFC, International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM and Environmental awareness 29%Cinega 25% other valuable sources of best practices in order to keep enriching our Community capacity building 8%Explorations 33% guidelines.
Training and coaching for our community relation agents was Education 19%Fresnillo 19% reinforced in 2013 with more frequent visits of the corporate staff to the Social welfare 44%Penmont 19% business units.
We expect to intensify the training and use of information San Julian 1% technology tools to advance our knowledge of the community.
Saucito 3% We promote cultural sensitivity and care, and continue to participate in and sponsor local holidays and festivals in the communities where Community Investment Community investment we operate.
By strategic lever By business unit Developing with the community Our operations are located in communities that are socio-economically diverse, ranging from low to high levels of social marginalisation.
Water, infrastructure, insecurity violence, unemployment, and lack of access to public services are among the challenges faced by our communities, according to our bi-annual perception surveys.
These challenges, combined with the insights gained from engaging Environmental awareness 4%Cinega 15% our stakeholders, guide our community activities and our social Community capacity building 5%Explorations 4% investment programmes.
Our efforts target certain development levers Education 40%Fresnillo 59% such as education, social welfare public health, social interaction Social welfare 44%Penmont 9% and sports, environmental awareness, community capacity building Infrastructure 7% Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo 4% and infrastructure.
Saucito 9% Economic impact Economic value distributed Economic value distributed By region Our economic contribution creates value in the regions where we operate.
This includes total wages and benets, payments to local contractors and suppliers, municipal, state and federal taxes.
US$ million Wages and benets of workers 112.12 Payments to suppliers contractors 656.48 Payments to local governments 2.20 Wages and benets of workers 9.76%Zacatecas 24.17% Payments to Sonora 44.70% Payments to federal government 377.85 suppliers contractors 57.15%Durango 11.64% 1,148.65 Payments to Chihuahua 12.50% local governments 0.19% Distrito Federal 4.90% Payments to Coahuila, Estado fide Mexico federal government 32.90% and Guanajuato 2.09% | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 89 W W WW WWWWW WWWW WWWWWW WWWWWW WWWWWW
