Corporate Governance Overview continued Board of Directors and Executive Committee Board of Directors Chairman Role: Leads Board Alberto Baillres Non-executive Chairman Nominations Committee Chairman Non-independent Directors Role: Internal scrutiny Alejandro Baillres Non-independent Director Juan Bordes Non-independent Director Arturo Fernndez Non-independent Director Jaime Lomeln Non-independent Director Rafael Mac Gregor Non-independent Director HSECR Committee Chairman Committee Chairmen Role: Report on the discussions of their Independent Directors Committees Role: External scrutiny Lord Cairns Senior Independent Director Remuneration Committee Chairman Mara Asuncin Non-executive Director Aramburuzabala Javier Fernndez Non-executive Director Fernando Ruiz Non-executive Director Fernando Solana Non-executive Director Guy Wilson Independent Non-executive Director Audit Committee Chairman Executive Committee Executive Committee members Role: Prepare proposals for the Board Octavio Alvdrez Chief Executive officer Mario Arregun Chief Financial officer David Giles Vice President Exploration Roberto Daz Chief Operating officer | 108 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo boardroom Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Chairman and independent Directors Alberto Baillres Lord Cairns Mara Asuncin Javier Fernndez Aramburuzabala Non-executive Chairman Senior independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director non-executive Director non-executive Director Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Date of appointment: 15 April 2008 15 April 2008 16 April 2012 15 April 2008 Committee: Committee: Committee: Nominations Committee R emuneration Committee Nominations Committee Chairman Chairman HSECR Committee R emuneration Committee Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Mr Baillres has extensive Lord Cairns brings a macroMs Aramburuzabala brings Through his wide-ranging experience and knowledge of economic perspective to the experience of a broad range commercial experience, both both the Group and the Mexican Boards discussions, which is ofMexican and international ataMexican and international markets in which it operates and supplemented by his career as business to her role.
level and across a variety of has overseen the development aninvestment banker in London.
industrial and services sectors, of both the Fresnillo Group, and He is able to provide an informed MrFernndez contributes a its associated companies that view of institutional investor deepand independent business provide essential services to the attitudes and issues.
His wide perspective to the Boards Group, from both the investor international experience and discussions.
connections enable him to contribute a supra-governmental view to the Boards discussions.
Fernando Ruiz Fernando Solana Guy Wilson Independent Independent Independent non-executive Director non-executive Director non-executive Director Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Date of appointment: 15 April 2008 19 February 2009 1 July 2008 Committee: Committee: Committee: Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman Nominations Committee R emuneration Committee Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Mr Ruiz contributes to the Board Mr Solanas extensive experience Mr Wilsons distinguished career and Audit Committee proceedings and connections within the within a global audit rm and his through experience of political, banking and diplomatic experience of capital transactions international audit and accounting arenas enables him to contribute and corporate actions provide frameworks and a specialist to these aspects of strategic theBoard with an important knowledge of Mexican tax.
He is able international audit and to provide insight into the domestic accountancy perspective.
political and regulatory framework within Mexico.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 109 Corporate Governance Overview continued Board of Directors and Executive Committee Non-independent Directors Alejandro Baillres Juan Bordes Arturo Fernndez Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Date of appointment: 16 April 2012 15 April 2008 15 April 2008 Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Mr Baillres brings experience Mr Bordes brings to the Board Mr Fernndez economics of a broad range of Mexican and practical and extensive crossbackground, as well as his international business to his role.
sector business experience, experience and connections including within financial services.
within the Mexican public policy arena provide the Board with commercial input and the macro-economic perspective.
Rafael Mac Gregor Jaime Lomeln Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Date of appointment: Date of appointment: 15 April 2008 15 April 2008 Committee: Committee: HSECR Committee Chairman HSECR Committee Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Mr Mac Gregor has wide-ranging Mr Lomeln brings to the Board commercial experience across an invaluable wealth of senior a number of sectors, including operational experience in the institutional financial services and elds of mining and engineering.
| 110 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Executive Committee Octavio Alvdrez Mario Arregun David Giles Roberto Daz Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Vice President, Exploration Chief Operating officer Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Date of appointment: Date of appointment: 15 August 2012 15 April 2008 15 April 2008 1 November 2013 Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Experience and key strengths: Mr Alvdrez has extensive Mr Arregun joined Fresnillo plc Mr Giles was previously employed Following a long career in the experience within the mining from Industrias Peoles, where by Peoles where he worked for mining industry.
Mr Daz first industry and prior to being he was Chief Financial officer for 30 years and had undertaken a joined Peoles in 1977 and, appointed Chief Executive officer 11 years and Group Treasurer for number of senior management following roles with other groups, of Fresnillo plc was General the six years prior.
Before joining positions including Vice President rejoined Peoles in 2007.
He has Manager of the Madero mine, Peoles, Mr Arregun worked in of Exploration.
Before joining previously served as Fresnillos one of Mexicos largest mines investment banking at Valores Peoles, he worked for AMAX, Vice President of Operations and operated by Peoles.
Mr Alvdrez Finamex and Project Management Corona Gold and Tormex.
Mr Giles Vice President of Project joined the Peoles Group in at Dupont Mxico.
Mr Arregun has a bachelor of applied science Development.
Since then he has holds a bachelor of chemical and engineering degree in in mining engineering from the held a number of senior engineering degree with honours geology from the University University of Guanajuato and the operational and financial positions and received his MBA from the ofToronto, and holds an MBA Colorado School of Mines, as well across Peoles and Fresnillo, University of Chicago.
He also from ITESM University in Mexico.
as MBAs from ITAM Mexico City, including that of Treasurer, Head completed the Stanford Executive He is an officer of the Society and TulaneUniversity USA.
of Investor Relations in London Program at Stanford University.
ofEconomic Geologists and the Mr Daz is invited to attend and Head of Procurement.
He is Mexican Association of Mining, Board meetings.
Mr Arregun is invited to attend a graduate of the Universidad fide Metallurgical and Geological Board and Audit Committee Guanajuato Mexico, where he Engineers.
gained a degree in Mining Mr Giles is invited to attend Engineering, and holds an MBA Board meetings.
from The Wharton School US.
MrAlvdrez is invited to attend Board, HSECR Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 111
