Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements UK Corporate Governance Fresnillo governance structure Code Compliance Statement The Board structure As a company with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that Fresnillo is required under the FCA Listing Rules to comply with the theBoard focuses its time and energy on strategy, monitoring the Provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code a copy of performance of the management team, governance, risk and control which may be found on the website of the Financial Reporting Council issues.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been www.
uk or explain its reasons for non-compliance, in respect of delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the the year ended 31 December 2013.
The following statement is therefore UKCompanies Act, FCA Listing Rules and the Code.
made in compliance with such requirement, and the sections thereafter The Board has delegated certain authorities to the following committees explain how the principles in the Code were applied and provide to facilitate the routine business of the Company: cross-references to other sections where more detailed description is available.
Audit Committee Executive Committee The Code establishes 18 main principles of good governance in five areas: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations HSECR Relations with Shareholders.
The remainder of this report: the section Committee on Risk Management which can be found on pages 42-53 : the Nominations Committee Sustainability Report which can be found on pages 76-91 and the Remuneration Committee Directors Remuneration Report which can be found on pages 132-143 provides further detail on how the Company applies good governance The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations inthese five areas.
and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committees are available on the Companys website www.
For the financial year ended 31 December 2013, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code in all these areas, save in respect Detailed reports on the activities of the Audit Committee and the of D. 2.1, which provides that the Board should establish a remuneration Nominations Committee are set out in this Report on pages 120 and committee of at least three independent Non-executive Directors.
The composition of the Fresnillo Remuneration Committee is made up The Executive Committee is led by the Chief Executive officer and of three members including two independent Non-executive Directors one consists of the most senior executives within the Fresnillo Group.
It is of whom, Lord Cairns, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman responsible for the management of the Companys businesses including of the Company, Mr Baillres, who was not independent at the time of the implementation of decisions agreed in principle by the Board and his appointment, is also a member.
The Board believes that Mr Baillres all executive management of the operations of the Group within the experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican market and his strategy and budget approved by the Board.
It has certain powers to considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committees deliberations approve smaller transactions on behalf of the Board such transactions justifies his membership of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Baillres are reported and explained to the Board at its next scheduled meeting.
is not involved in matters concerning his own remuneration.
Over the past few years, the role of the Executive Committee has evolved in three main areas: Risk: It is also responsible for the identication, prioritisation and management of risk within a framework monitored regularly by the Board Business conduct: Members of the Executive Committee also serve on the Honour Commission which has, over the past three years, taken on a key role in maintaining ethical business standards within theFresnillo Group.
The terms of reference and membership of the Honour Commission are set by the Executive Committee Safety performance: Whilst the HSECR Committee oversees health and safety issues on behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of safety.
Whilst the Groups fatality record has improved, the Executive Committee continues to focus its attention on this issue | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 113
