Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements The Company continues to recognise the value of being a member of Relations with shareholders the FTSE 100 Index and therefore on 3 May 2013, 19,733,430 new ordinary The Board seeks to ensure that the interests of minority shareholders in shares of US$0.50 each were admitted for trading on the London Stock the Company are properly respected and aligned with those of major Exchange to ensure that the Company was and remains compliant with shareholders.
As described on page 115, the Board maintains procedures the UK Listing Rules requiring constituents to maintain a minimum free for dealing with transactions with Related Parties as well as Directors oat of 25%.
The Companys sixth annual general meeting will be held on Friday 16 May The Company has an ofce in London where the Head of Investor 2014 at 12.00 noon.
The business of the Annual General Meeting AGM Relations is based.
The Group has implemented a strong communications will be conducted in accordance with the provisions B.
7.2, E. 2.1 and and investor relations programme and aims to meet major shareholders E. 2.2 of the Code.
The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of each and analysts at least twice a year to discuss the results of the Group and of the Board committees will be available to answer questions put forward to respond to any queries the shareholders may have.
The Head of to them by shareholders of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts Investor Relations in London maintains ongoing relations with analysts and and the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders major shareholders through telephone calls and meetings.
The Company at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
also uses a full programme of mining conferences to meet with current In planning the business of each AGM, the Board takes account of and prospective investors.
Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained institutional shareholder guidelines on pre-emption rights, share through the Investor Relations Ofce in Mexico City.
The Chief Executive buy-backs and shareholder rights in relation to general meetings when officer and Chief Financial officer participate in the major roadshows to drafting the usual resolutions dealing with those matters.
In each case, meet with analysts and shareholders.
They are joined by other members resolutions are presented to the AGM to give the Board exibility to of the Executive Committee for some of these visits.
The Head of Investor respond to market developments.
Relations, supported by the Chief Executive officer, gives a report at each Board meeting on communications and shareholder activity.
The principal investor relations and communications activities during 2013 are shown below.
Investor relation programme Investor Relations 2013 Major Industry Conference and Briengs Conference calls following the Production January Resultsannouncement February Roadshows following the Preliminary March Announcementin the UK, USA and Canada April Conference calls following the Production Report May BAML Global Metals & Mining Conference Site visits June July Interim Results roadshows in the UK August Denver Gold Forum, Credit Suisse September Global Steel and Mining Conference Conference calls following the October LME Week Production Results announcement November UBS Reverse Roadshow RBC Annual Silver Conference December Exploration day | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 119
