Governance testing the effectiveness of the risk management procedures through reviewing and considering reports from the AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Risk Committee reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls advising the board on whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy reporting to the board on how it has discharged its responsibilities MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR The committee: Mark Seligman reviewed the companys annual report, half-yearly results and Chairman of the Audit Committee preliminary announcement reviewed and approved the 2013 external audit plan and received regular reports from the external auditor reviewed and approved the external auditors fees, including fees for DEAR SHAREHOLDER, non-audit services 2013 saw the appointment of fi first Ashley Almanza, then Stuart Curl recommended to the board the re-tendering of the annual external on an acting basis and subsequently Himanshu Raja as chief fi financial audit process as set out on page 63 offi cer after Trevor Dighton stepped down from that position at the end of April.
Starting in May, a thorough review of the groups balance considered the effectiveness of the groups internal controls over sheet was undertaken and work began on a process of change to fi financial reporting strengthen signifi cantly the groups fi financial capabilities.
This process reviewed and approved the internal audit resources and annual audit was fully supported by the committee, which reviewed and discussed plan and received regular reports from internal audit on the results the outcomes with executive management and the rest of the board.
of their work During the course of the year, the Audit Committee devoted reviewed provisioning for potential tax liabilities signifi cant time to reviewing the integrity and quality of the groups fi financial reporting.
The Audit Committee reviewed and assessed the reviewed the committees terms of reference half-year and full-year exercises relating to the carrying value of the reviewed whistle-blowing reports and actions taken groups assets and liabilities, the effectiveness of the internal control environment and the effectiveness of both the internal audit function carried out an externally facilitated self-assessment of and the external auditor.
Together, these actions increased our its performance understanding of the overall control environment, and resulted in a considered the signifi cant issues below.
number of decisions intended to further strengthen controls.
The Audit Committee concluded that the annual report and accounts was fair, SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT balanced and understandable, and reported this to the board.
COMMITTEE At the end of 2014 I will have served on the board for nine years and I will retire from the board at the 2015 AGM.
Tim Weller will become The primary areas of judgement considered by the committee in relation to the 2013 fi financial statements, and how these were chairman of the committee in my place after this years AGM, thereby allowing Tim to assume leadership of the external audit tender process addressed, were: described below.
Presentation of the income statement Mark Seligman In order to provide a better understanding of the underlying Chairman of the Audit Committee performance of the business, for the half-yearly and full-year results, management presented a view of the underlying results of the 31 March 2014 group, with separate disclosure of restructuring charges and other specifi c items.
ROLE The committee discussed the rationale with management and with The committees tasks include: the external auditor and concluded that separate presentation of restructuring charges and other specifi c items provides users of the reviewing the groups fi financial results announcements and fi financial groups fi financial statements with added clarity and transparency, and statements and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and therefore facilitates a clearer assessment of the groups performance listing requirements over time.
The committee confi rmed that appropriate accounting overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, including policies, controls and guidance on the constituents for specifi c items discussing with them the nature, scope and fees for their work were in place and would be applied robustly in future years.
and making recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and resourcing of the group internal auditing function reviewing the groups whistle-blowing arrangements Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 61 Audit Committee report continued Risk of management override of internal controls foreign ownership rules and whether or not the group holds suffi cient The group operates in a large number of diverse locations and has control and infl uence to support consolidation in the group results.
This a decentralised management structure, with a signifi cant number of was a major area of focus in the external audit plan and the work was local fi financial systems and processes which could potentially lead reviewed by the external auditor and by the committee.
to management override of internal controls in the absence of As a result of this review, the committee was satisfi ed that the basis of group oversight.
consolidation and joint venture accounting was appropriate for the year.
The committee assessed the overall control environment of the group, The committee also considered a report on the impact of adopting reviewed and approved the group internal audit plan for the year as IFRS 10, 11 and 12 which came into force on 1 January 2014 and well as internal audit reports provided, interviewed senior management, approved the enhanced disclosures relating to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 as and reviewed other controls including whistle-blowing arrangements.
The committee also examined signifi cant accounting estimates and Carrying value of goodwill judgements and the supporting documentation for evidence of fraud The total value of the groups goodwill as at 31 December 2013 is or bias that may represent a risk of material misstatement, and satisfi ed 2bn and it relates to a signifi cant number of acquisitions made.
itself that the risk of management override of internal controls is The estimation of the recoverable amount of goodwill supported not material.
by the groups cash generating units requires signifi cant judgement Review of the carrying value of assets and liabilities primarily in relation to the achievability of long-term business plans Following the appointment of Ashley Almanza as chief fi financial offi cer and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process.
in May 2013 and subsequently as chief executive offi cer in June 2013, The committee addressed these matters through receiving reports a balance sheet review was undertaken of the carrying value of from management outlining the basis for the assumptions used, and the groups assets and liabilities in advance of the half-year results.
was satisfi ed with the carrying value of goodwill.
In addition, this matter Following the appointment of Himanshu Raja as chief fi financial offi cer in is a prime area of external audit focus.
October 2013, a further and more detailed exercise was carried out.
Going concern The committee had extensive discussions with both management and The committee considered the groups strategy and the principal risks with the external auditor, which was asked to include the balance sheet and uncertainties, reviewed the liquidity position of the group taking review as part of the audits scope and report to the committee.
into account the signifi cant undrawn but committed facilities available, Note 8 to the fi financial statements provides the details of the assets and reviewed compliance with and availability of headroom in relation that have been written down as a result of this exercise.
In fi nalising the to covenants.
In addition, the committee considered the groups cash year-end results, the committee scrutinised the proposed adjustments fl ow forecast for the next 12 months, considered a number of stress and received assurance from management and the external auditor test scenarios to assess the robustness of this forecast.
that the review was comprehensive and complete and that the revised estimates took account of current circumstances.
The committee was The committee was satisfi ed that the cash fl ow forecast, taking into satisfi ed that the adjustments made were balanced and reasonable.
account reasonably possible risk sensitivities and the groups current funding and facilities, alongside the groups funding strategy: show that Review of contracts the group will continue to operate for the forseeable future.
In addition, The group delivers outsourcing services that can be complex in nature the committee has reviewed the relevant disclosures made in the and may be governed by unique contractual arrangements.
There is a statement of directors responsibilities on page 83.
The committee risk that revenue from these contracts is not recognised in accordance has recommended to the board the adoption of the going concern with contractual entitlements and therefore provisions may be statement for inclusion in the annual report and accounts.
required for refunds due to inaccurate billing and revenue recognition.
During the year, the group was subject to a number of inquiries in Discontinued operations relation to the accuracy of billing and services provided on some The group often has business disposals underway at any reporting date.
specifi c UK Government contracts, most notably the investigation into There is a risk that any such businesses may not meet the groups the electronic monitoring contracts where the Ministry of Justice accounting policy for presentation as discontinued at the balance sheet alleged the group had overcharged for certain aspects of the services.
date, either because they are not a separate major line of business Subsequent to year-end, a settlement was reached with the UK or because there is uncertainty as to the likelihood of achieving the Government which is in line with the provision made at the year-end.
sale or the realisable value on disposal.
The latter requires a level of judgement due to the range of potential sale prices.
The committee During the second half of the year, management undertook a review of reviewed the classifi cation of all discontinued businesses and, following 163 contracts across the group.
The committee tested management on discussions with management and with the external auditor, was the underlying principles and application of provisions relating to the satisfi ed that the likelihood of sale was highly probable and that the contract portfolio review and was satisfi ed that the judgements made carrying value was reasonable based on market multiples and on were balanced and reasonable.
expectations arising from negotiations with potential buyers.
Compliance with foreign ownership rules and consolidation Taxation of subsidiaries The group operates in many tax jurisdictions, including countries The group has a diverse set of complex ownership structures, which where tax legislation is not always applied consistently and under some are sometimes based upon local laws and regulations relating to foreign complex contractual circumstances where the responsibility for tax ownership.
In some instances the group operates through local arising is not always clear.
structures with limited direct share ownership of the business but exercises control through shareholder agreements.
Forthcoming The committee received reports from management and the external changes to the rules on consolidation require different judgements in auditor on such issues, challenging them with assistance from external deciding whether or not to consolidate the underlying business or to legal and other advisers, and is satisfi ed as to the judgements made.
treat the operation as a joint venture, an associate or an investment, The committee also evaluated the adequacy of the groups disclosures as appropriate.
During the year, management carried out an extensive about the tax provisions and contingencies at notes 14 and 35 and the exercise to review whether the group is in compliance with local level of estimation due to uncertainty in the tax provisions at note 4.
62 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance fi financial controller where appropriate.
In addition, the committee has INTERNAL AUDIT REVIEW considered the results of an internal questionnaire about the external The Institute of Internal Auditors suggests that internal audit functions auditor completed by management and members of the committee.
are subject to an external assessment at least every fi five years.
The last The questionnaire included questions relating to the quality, planning, review of the groups internal audit function was carried out in 2009, execution and communication of the external audit programme.
In May 2013, the committee commissioned an The committee also reviewed the fi findings of the Financial Reporting independent review of the groups internal audit function.
After a Councils report on its audit quality inspection of KPMG published in selection process which involved proposals from fi five fi rms, Deloitte May 2013.
Since the assessment of the external audit concluded that scored highest and was selected to carry out the review.
the external audit remains effective and the external auditor remains Deloittes report was considered by the committee in December 2013. independent, the committee recommended to the board that KPMG The report found that the existing internal audit function was well should be re-appointed as the groups auditor for 2014.
The board organised and diligent, but that there were areas for improvement.
accepted this recommendation and has proposed a resolution set Deloitte recommended the strengthening of the internal audit function out on page 151 to shareholders for the re-appointment of KPMG.
and more emphasis on auditing the third line of defence activities.
The committee also considered whether to tender the external audit.
Deloitte also concluded that, although the groups internal fi financial review process was well designed, it could benefi t from being carried EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER out by fi finance staff, with internal audit reviewing the outcome.
KPMG has been the groups external auditor since 2005.
As part of The committee accepted Deloittes fi findings, and adopted a number of the committees review of the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit changes including signifi cantly increasing the resources available to the process, a detailed assessment was undertaken in 2013 as to whether internal audit function over the course of 2014.
This will enable an the group should consider putting the external audit engagement out increase in the amount of time available for on-site audits and the to tender.
The committee concluded it was appropriate to undertake insourcing of testing of internal controls in the UK and of IT auditing.
a full tender process for external audit services.
Internal audits effectiveness will be further enhanced by the The committee has therefore approved a tender process outlined strengthening of regional and country fi finance functions.
below which will be carried out during 2014.
In the event that KPMG is unsuccessful, the board will appoint a successor with effect from the EXTERNAL AUDITOR conclusion of the 2014 audit, and shareholders will be invited to The committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor, confi rm this appointment at the AGM in 2015.
If KPMG is successful, including the rotation of the audit partner, each year and also assesses shareholders will have the opportunity to re-appoint the fi rm as the their independence on an on-going basis.
The external auditor is groups external auditor at the AGM in 2015. required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the group audit every fi five years.
The current lead audit partner has been in place for two years.
The external auditor KPMG Audit Plc was fi first appointed in 2005.
EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER So as to ensure that the independence of the audit is not Tender process compromised, during the year the committee reviewed its policy on A request for a proposal will be sent to each of the global the provision of non-audit services.
Besides its formal audit function, audit fi rms in the second quarter of 2014. the external auditor is permitted to provide consultation and due diligence services related to mergers and acquisitions, audits of A tender evaluation team will be appointed comprising senior employee benefi t plans, reviews of internal accounting and control representatives from fi finance, group internal audit, group policies and general advice on fi financial reporting standards.
Where the treasury, group legal and group tax.
fees for such services are signifi cant, prior approval of the committee is Following a review and evaluation of submissions and required.
The external auditor is also prohibited from providing other interviews by the tender team, a shortlist of prospective fi rms services without specifi c permission from the committee.
The provision will be agreed by the committee and those selected will be of any non-audit services by the external auditor must in any event invited to present to the committee.
comply with the requirements in that regard of the Auditing Practices Board.
The committee has reviewed this policy and agreed that it Members of the board and management will attend to will be amended to allow the external auditor to undertake certain assist the committee in developing a recommendation for controls testing activities and any other services with the committees the board.
The committee will make the recommendation approval which would not diminish the auditors independence.
The external auditor has written to the committee confi rming that, Criteria in its opinion, it is independent.
The committee discussed the levels of Detailed criteria for evaluation will be developed so as to materiality used by the external auditor as set out in the report on incorporate key aspects of the Financial Reporting Councils page 92 and satisfi ed itself these were appropriate.
The committee Audit Quality Framework.
approved the fees paid to the external auditor, noting that the external audit is a complex exercise involving over 1,000 KPMG personnel.
Appropriate weighting will be given to: Details of the fees paid for audit services and non-audit services can organisation, capability and service delivery including be found in note 10 to the fi financial statements.
fully integrated global coverage, industry experience, Effectiveness of the external auditor in-depth appreciation of the groups risk environment A combination of formal and informal processes is used in the and technical expertise assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
audit quality including quality assurance and compliance Regular feedback is sought and received by management from the procedures, commitment to innovation and value-add, audit businesses within the scope of the external audit.
At the conclusion methodology, partner rotation and succession planning of the year-end audit, this is fed back to the committee by the group audit approach including audit planning and scope, materiality and risk focus, and team capability and fi t including experience, continuity, culture, team structure and supervision.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 63
