Corporate governance report GOVERNANCE: CHAIRMANS LETTER OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The board sits at the top of the companys governance framework, setting broad strategic targets, monitoring progress, approving proposed actions and ensuring appropriate controls are in place and operating effectively.
John Connolly Management decisions, development of strategies and policies and Chairman implementation of board decisions fall to the executive committee.
Regional management teams have responsibility for businesses within their regions and are tasked with implementing policies and controls at business levels, as well as ensuring they meet agreed fi financial goals.
The presence of a majority of independent non-executive directors on DEAR SHAREHOLDER, the board ensures objectivity, challenge and debate.
It is the primary G4S is committed to achieving and maintaining the highest standards responsibility of the board to provide effective leadership for the group of corporate governance, as we believe that these are the necessary and this is done by, amongst other things, ensuring that decision making foundations on which the long-term success of the group is built.
Trust, is conducted throughout the group within a strong internal control integrity and transparency are at the heart of what we do.
My role is framework and by setting values and standards.
to lead the board and ensure that it has the appropriate balance of There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board under skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to 12 separate categories: strategy and management: structure and capital: ensure its effectiveness.
fi financial reporting and controls: risk and internal controls: contracts: As explained in my chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3, 2013 communication: board membership and other appointments: has been a year of strong focus on board composition and in ensuring remuneration: delegation of authority: corporate governance matters: we have the right senior management team in place.
I am pleased to policies: and other matters such as settling material litigation and report that the range of backgrounds, skills and experience of the new approving levels of insurance.
By way of example, board approval is members of the board is already producing results.
A strong emphasis required for: unbudgeted capital projects of more than 10m: entering was placed on ensuring that they have suffi cient knowledge of the into a sales contract where annual revenue is to be more than 50m: company and the environment and conditions in which we operate.
any changes to the groups long-term objectives and commercial Details of inductions and professional development are found below.
strategy: and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The schedule of matters reserved to the board was reviewed and The role of the board is to challenge constructively and help develop updated during the course of the year.
The board took part in the thorough review of the strategy, which the new chief executive offi cer, Ashley Almanza, The board fulfi ls a number of its most important functions through developed during the summer and which resulted in the adoption of its committees.
The work of these committees is described below in the strategy for delivering the companys objectives which is described this report.
The terms of reference of the committees are available on the 2013 also saw us embark on a thorough review of our risk companys website.
com management framework, which has led to a number of changes aimed at strengthening and enhancing internal controls and processes for BOARD BALANCE identifying, reporting and managing risk.
The board, through its newly Board composition created Risk Committee, oversaw the process.
As at the date of this report, the board comprises 11 members: the The purpose of the corporate governance report which follows is to non-executive chairman John Connolly, seven other non-executive give an understanding of the corporate governance framework and directors and three executive directors.
The board considers all the arrangements we have in place.
It is also to explain how the group as non-executive directors to be independent.
a whole and the board in particular have complied with the principles The names of the directors serving as at 31 December 2013 and of the UK Corporate Governance Codes, published in May 2010 and their biographical details are set out on pages 48 and 49.
All directors September 2012 the Code.
served throughout the year under review, except as noted below: John Connolly Tim Weller appointed as non-executive director on 1 April 2013 Chairman Ashley Almanza appointed as director and chief fi financial offi cer 31 March 2014 on 1 May 2013 and then as chief executive offi cer on 1 June 2013 Nick Buckles stepped down from the board on 31 May 2013 Lord Condon, Trevor Dighton and Bo Lerenius retired from the board at the conclusion of the companys AGM on 6 June 2013 Himanshu Raja appointed as director and chief fi financial offi cer on 7 October 2013 Mark Seligman will have served on the board for nine years by the end of this year and will stand down from the board after the companys AGM in 2015.
Mark has served as Audit Committee chairman since May 2009 and has been a member of that committee since January 2006.
As part of the boards succession plan therefore, Mark will stand 52 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance down as a member of the committee at the end of this year and as chairman of the Audit Committee after the 2014 AGM, when the role COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE will be taken on by Tim Weller.
Both Mark and Tim are the members of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant fi financial experience, and GOVERNANCE CODE Tim is a serving FTSE 100 CFO.
Tim will therefore lead the external The boards statement on the companys corporate audit tender process which will be undertaken by the Audit Committee governance performance is based on the Code, which is later this year see page 63. available on the Financial Reporting Councils website https: Induction and professional development www.
uk Our-Work Codes-Standards CorporateA tailored induction is provided to new non-executive directors joining governance .
This includes spending time with the executive directors The Listing Rules require companies to disclose how they and other senior executives to understand the business, its structure apply the Codes main principles and report how they have and people as well as the companys strategy and fi financial performance.
The Code recognises that alternatives to following In March 2013, Messrs Crozier, Spence and Weller met the groups its provisions may be justifi ed in particular circumstances if good governance can be achieved by other means, provided regional CEOs who each presented an overview of their region.
This was followed by a question and answer session also attended by the reasons are explained clearly and carefully.
In such cases, companies must also illustrate how their actual practices are the chief executive offi cer and the chief fi financial offi cer.
Visits to key locations within the group are also arranged.
New directors are given consistent with the principle in question and contribute to good governance.
the opportunity to visit businesses so they can learn about the groups operations.
The company complied throughout the year under review In February 2013, John Connolly, Mark Elliott and Paul Spence attended with the provisions of the Code.
The Corporate governance the North American regional management conference in Miami.
Prior report, together with the Audit committee report and the to the conference, as part of his induction, Mr Spence attended a Directors remuneration report, describe how the board has session with the Americas regional management team, who provided applied these provisions.
an overview of the businesses in the region, as well as the opportunities and challenges there.
The induction also provides details of the groups governance policies and structure and includes a summary of the risks facing the group.
Meeting regional and country staff continues throughout a directors time on the board, as does continuing professional development, usually in areas where the director has specifi c committee responsibility.
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE BOARD RISK AUDIT CSR REMUNERATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP RISK COMPANY MANAGEMENT INTERNAL SECRETARIAT FUNCTION AUDIT GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE GROUP EXECUTIVE RISK INVESTMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE REGIONAL RISK & AUDIT COMMITTEES Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 53 Corporate governance report continued Board performance review RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS In 2013, the performance of the board and its committees was The company actively seeks to engage with shareholders and, during evaluated using a questionnaire-based self-assessment process which 2013, senior management had extensive contact via one on one was then interpreted and reported on by the external consultancy meetings, group meetings and telephone conference calls with Lintstock Limited which conducted an externally facilitated evaluation shareholders representing more than 80% of the share register of the board and its committees performance in 2011.
generated by this process related to the board, the chairman and each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and CSR committees.
Lintstock In November, the chief executive and chief fi financial offi cer presented has no connection with the company other than evaluating the board to institutional investors at the groups annual capital markets update and its committees performance.
which is video webcast and available on the groups website.
Additional results meetings are held for the preliminary and half-yearly results Following consideration of the report on the boards performance, the announcements and conference calls are arranged for the interim board has agreed a set of primary objectives for its work in 2014, which management statements.
will include: The chairman has engaged with major shareholders over senior regular reviews of businesses within each region including the groups management changes and other broader governance issues.
risk services business The previous and current chairs of the CSR Committee, Mark Elliott scrutinising the groups technology strategy and Clare Spottiswoode, and relevant senior executives met with a group of socially responsible investors in September 2013, updating focusing on succession planning them on the groups corporate responsibility programme.
Mark Elliott, increased understanding of the groups competitors in his capacity as chair of the Remuneration Committee, along with senior human resources executives, held a detailed consultation process increased focus on effectiveness of internal controls environment with the companys largest shareholders on proposals for a new analysis of employee and customer satisfaction.
In addition, the reports considered the performance of the chairman It is intended that all the directors will attend, and be available to and each board member and were used to inform the discussion answer questions at, the companys annual general meeting which is about the chairmans performance, which was conducted by the an important opportunity for communication between the board senior independent director without the chairman being present.
and shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
At the annual The chairman has also conducted discussions with individual directors general meeting, the meeting is informed of the numbers of proxy which, amongst other things, allowed the chairman to review directors votes cast and the same information is published subsequently on training and development needs.
The chairman also held regular meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives being present.
BOARD MEETINGS AND INFORMATION FLOW Succession Seven scheduled board meetings were held during the year ended The Nomination Committee, led by the chairman, is responsible for 31 December 2013 and there were a further seven additional the recruitment of all new members of the board and the board unscheduled board meetings.
These additional meetings were mostly as a whole discusses succession planning for the board and senior called at short notice and it was not always possible for all directors executives.
Three of the Remuneration Committee meetings were unscheduled.
Director re-election The companys articles of association require that all continuing One of the scheduled board meetings was an extended two-day directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next annual board and strategy session covering presentations on development general meeting following their appointment and that they submit and implementation of the companys strategy.
The board debated the themselves for re-election at least every three years and that at least companys strategy and business plans and the companys strategy was one-third of the directors not standing for election for the fi first time reviewed again by the board at a subsequent meeting.
Prior to each stand for re-election at each annual general meeting.
However, in meeting, comprehensive board papers are circulated to the directors accordance with the Code provision on re-election of directors, all addressing not only the regular agenda items on which the executives the continuing directors will stand for re-election every year.
will report, but also details of any areas requiring approval or decisions such as signifi cant transactions or events or important market issues.
Confl icts authorisation Each of the directors has disclosed to the board any situations which At each meeting, the board then receives reports from the chairman, apply to them as a result of which they have or may have an interest the chief executive, the chief fi financial offi cer and the company which confl icts or may confl ict with the interests of the company.
In secretary, an HR report which includes summaries of developments accordance with the companys articles of association, the board has on HR and health and safety matters and an investor relations report authorised such matters.
The affected directors did not vote when which includes analysts reviews and any comments received from their own positions were considered.
Where the board deemed it major shareholders since the previous board meeting.
After meetings appropriate, such authorisation was given subject to certain conditions.
of the board committees, the respective committee chairmen report to The board reviews such matters on a regular basis.
the board on the matters considered by each committee.
In addition, in months where there is no board meeting scheduled, the board receives trading and fi financial updates, investor relations and HR reports.
There are seven board meetings scheduled for the current year, including a two-day board and strategy meeting.
54 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Meeting attendance in 2013 Board Board Nomination CSR Risk Audit Remuneration scheduled unscheduled Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive directors Ashley Almanza 1 CEO 4 of 4 7 of 7 1 of 1 Himanshu Raja 2 CFO 2 of 2 2 of 2 1 of 1 3 Nick Buckles CEO 3 of 3 2 of 3 Trevor Dighton 4 CFO 4 of 4 2 of 3 Grahame Gibson Regional CEO Americas 7 of 7 5 of 7 Non-executive directors John Connolly chairman 7 of 7 7 of 7 2 of 2 1 of 1 Mark Seligman deputy chairman 7 of 7 6 of 7 4 of 4 6 of 6 Lord Condon senior independent 4 director 4 of 4 3 of 3 3 of 3 Mark Elliott senior independent director 5 7 of 7 6 of 7 2 of 2 2 of 2 6 of 6 Adam Crozier 6 of 7 6 of 7 2 of 2 3 of 4 Winnie Fok 7 of 7 6 of 7 4 of 4 6 of 6 4 Bo Lerenius 4 of 4 3 of 3 2 of 2 2 of 2 Paul Spence 7 of 7 6 of 7 2 of 2 0 of 1 4 of 4 Clare Spottiswoode 7 of 7 6 of 7 4 of 4 5 of 6 6 Tim Weller 5 of 5 7 of 7 1 of 1 3 of 3 1 Ashley Almanza was appointed to the board on 1 May 2013.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 2 Himanshu Raja was appointed to the board on 7 October 2013. failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
3 Nick Buckles stepped down from the board on 31 May 2013.
4 Trevor Dighton, Lord Condon and Bo Lerenius stepped down from Enterprise-wide policies and procedures, which are reviewed and the board on 6 June 2013. monitored by the group director of risk and programme assurance, 5 Mark Elliott took over from Lord Condon as senior independent are in place to identify the key risks faced by each business unit and to director on 7 June 2013. put in place appropriate remediation strategies for any risks determined 6 Tim Weller was appointed to the board on 1 April 2013. to exceed the groups risk appetite.
The most material risks are elevated to the board which evaluates their impact on the groups activities and FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE reviews any matters which may be considered by the board to present signifi cant exposure.
ASSESSMENT The groups key risks are summarised in the Strategy section In relation to compliance with the Code, the board has given Managing risk effectively and Our principal risks in detail on pages 34 consideration to whether the annual report and accounts, taken to 41. as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The key features of the groups risk management process, which was The preparation of the annual report and accounts is coordinated in place throughout the year under review, are: by the fi finance, investor relations and company secretariat teams with group-wide support and input from other areas of the business.
Senior executives in each business unit and region use a common Comprehensive reviews were undertaken at regular intervals risk management framework to provide a profi le of those throughout the process by senior management and other contributing risks which may have an impact on the achievement of their personnel within the group.
The statement required to be given by business objectives the directors by Code provision C. 1.1 can be found on page 83.
Each signifi cant risk is documented in the groups risk management system, showing an overview of the risk, its owner, how the risk RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL is managed, and any improvement actions.
Risk appetite tolerance The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the groups system is considered in the context of the residual after controls and of risk management and internal control and for reviewing its mitigation risk with a particular focus on High net risks.
be categorised as High, a risk must meet at least one of the following criteria: Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 55 Corporate governance report continued major impact on the achievement of the business strategy Defi ning a more precise group risk appetite.
serious damage to business reputation Implementing a new risk management software tool with improved mitigation action tracking capabilities and improved severe business disruption management information and reporting.
impact of 5% on operating profi t or assets Rolling-out new approaches to and policies on risk across the The risk profi les ensure that internal audit reviews of the adequacy, group.
application and effectiveness of risk management and internal Implementation of enhanced contract approval and contract controls are targeted on the key risks.
Risk management committees have been established at regional Further information about the Risk Committee, its remit, work during and group level.
2013 and its plans for 2014 can be found on pages 34 to 41.
Risk and control self-evaluation exercises are undertaken for each The internal control system includes clearly defi ned reporting lines operating company, for most companies at least twice a year, and and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly updated risk profi les are prepared.
Similar exercises are undertaken reporting system, and written policies and procedures.
as part of the integration process for all major acquisitions.
The results of the company risk evaluations are assessed by the regional In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, senior risk management committees.
management also receives assurance from other sources including security inspections, third-party reviews, company fi financial control Both the regional committees and the group executive risk reviews, external audit reports, summaries of whistle-blowing activity, committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks.
fraud reports and risk and control self-evaluations.
They monitor the actions taken to manage risks.
The group has in place robust internal control and risk management The process is carried out under the overall supervision of the group systems for fi financial reporting.
The group has a single global executive risk committee, which comprises the group chief fi financial consolidation system which is used for internal management reporting, offi cer, the group general counsel, the group communications director budgeting and planning as well as external reporting.
The group has and the group human resources director.
The group executive risk a comprehensive budgeting process with the budget being approved committee reports to the group executive and to the Risk Committee by the board.
Forecasts for the year are reported at least quarterly.
The process outlined above is reviewed regularly by the Actual results at business unit, region and group level are reported board through its Risk Committee to ensure its robustness and monthly and variances are reviewed.
A programme of business internal suitability to meet the groups needs.
fi financial reviews is performed by a fi finance team from either region In 2013, a new board Risk Committee was constituted.
This committee or group to check the accuracy of fi financial reporting and compliance approved a plan for the improvement of the groups risk management with the group fi finance manual.
policies and procedures to be led by the group director of risk and The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk programme assurance.
Under this plan the following progress has management and internal control each year.
As well as the above been made: processes and sources of assurance, the Audit Committee also Revised terms of reference have been agreed for regional risk and considers the following year end reporting in conducting this review: audit committees and the executive risk committee.
The reporting Summary of 2013 internal audit work, including an update on all arrangements and inter-relationships between these governance open audits with a defi cient rating, analysis of results by region, bodies and the Audit Committee have been clarifi ed.
common audit fi findings and areas identifi ed for improvement in Regional risk managers with revised, standardised, role descriptions internal controls have been appointed in each region as well as in the global risk Summary of 2013 internal fi financial reviews, including services and consulting business.
signifi cant accounting or fi financial control issues and common A new group risk universe providing greater structure to the concerns identifi ed classifi cation of the groups risk was developed.
Overview of year-end fi financial control status reports completed A new methodology for identifying and assessing risks has by all businesses confi rming adherence to group standards, with been created.
any exceptions reported An interim risk management tool, incorporating the risk universe A broad overview of the general risk management and internal and new methodology was put into place to capture risk at regional control systems in place during the year and group level.
Year-end group risk profi le In January 2014, the regional risk and audit committees all held risk Review of risk management processes and of the groups principal workshops to identify and assess the principal regional residual risks residual risks by the board Risk Committee afresh.
These risks were recorded in the interim risk management tool and provided the basis for identifying and assessing the groups External audit year-end reporting on fi financial controls principal residual risks presented in this annual report.
action plans are being refreshed for all regional and group The Audit Committee has confi rmed that it is satisfi ed that the groups residual risks.
risk management and internal control processes and procedures are During 2014, the risk management improvement programme appropriate.
The board has reviewed the groups risk management will focus on: and internal control system for the year ended 31 December 2013 by considering reports from the Audit Committee and the Risk Defi ning a new overall risk management approach and revised Committee and has taken account of events since 31 December 2013. risk policy.
Because G4S Government Solutions, Inc. GSI is governed through a proxy agreement under which the group is excluded from access to operational information, it is not subject to the same risk management process as is applied to other group companies.
The board has however satisfi ed itself as to the adequacy of the internal control processes adopted by GSI, which include a risk review by an external adviser.
56 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance NEW APPOINTMENTS THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE In 2013, three new non-executive directors were appointed to the board during the year, having been selected and announced in 2012 through a process led by the Nomination Committee which was assisted by the external executive search consultant, Zygos Partnership.
Through a process led by the Nomination Committee which was assisted by the external executive search consultant, Inzito, Ashley Almanza was appointed as CFO on 1 May 2013.
At the end of 2012, the board initiated a succession planning process to search for a new CFO.
The chairman of the Nomination Committee led the process.
Inzito, which was provided with a detailed brief for the role, undertook a thorough search.
The list of potential candidates selected by Inzito was considered by the Nomination Committee, which carried out the review having regard to the balance of skills, experience and diversity on the board.
Candidates who were shortlisted were all interviewed John Connolly by the CEO and a smaller number also met with the chairman of Nomination Committee Chairman the Nomination Committee and other non-executive directors.
This process led to the Nomination Committee recommending to the There have been signifi cant changes to the board the appointment of Mr Almanza as the new CFO.
The board accepted the recommendation, which resulted in the appointment of board during the year.
The Nomination Mr Almanza on 1 May 2013.
Committee was engaged in selecting and At the time of looking for a replacement for Mr Buckles, with Inzitos appointing two new executive directors.
assistance, the board considered the skills and experience of a range In any appointment recommended to of potential external candidates as well as those of Mr Almanza.
After careful review, the board concluded that Mr Almanzas wealth the board, the Nomination Committee of experience gained from working across international borders continues to ensure that board membership in complex businesses as well as his experience of strategic and represents the wide range of skills and operational management would enable him to provide strong strategic experience required.
and operational leadership to the group.
The board therefore approved Mr Almanzas appointment as CEO.
John Connolly The Nomination Committee then instigated the selection process for a new CFO to replace Mr Almanza.
Mr Almanza and the group human resources director interviewed a number of candidates, some of whom had been seen before, including Himanshu Raja.
With Inzitos assistance, a list of candidates was produced, a number of whom were interviewed MEMBERSHIP IN 2013 by the CEO and by the chairmen of the Nomination Committee and The members of the Nomination Committee are John Connolly the Audit Committee.
The Nomination Committee recommended to chairman, Adam Crozier and Mark Elliott.
On 24 January Lord the board the appointment of Mr Raja, and he was appointed as CFO Condon left the committee and Adam Crozier joined.
Inzito and Zygos Partnership each provided recruitment consultancy ROLE services to the Nomination Committee and neither has any other The Nomination Committee is responsible for making connection with the company.
recommendations on board appointments and on maintaining a balance of skills and experience on the board and its committees.
DIVERSITY Succession planning for the board is a matter which is devolved With operations in 120 countries, G4S operates in very diverse primarily to the Nomination Committee, although the committees communities and businesses.
Diversity covers many aspects such deliberations are reported to and debated by the full board.
The as gender, race, religion and language as well as background and board itself also regularly reviews more general succession planning experience.
Our workforce refl ects this diversity.
The board recognises for the senior management of the group.
that the group needs to continue to promote diversity in order to create an organisation that attracts, supports and promotes the KEY ACTIVITIES DURING 2013 broadest range of talent.
This allows individuals to reach their full Following an evaluation of the board committee memberships of the potential but also to provide the best service to our customers.
Diversity is a consideration that forms part of any new recruitment non-executive directors, proposals for changes were implemented in January 2013.
Further details of these changes can be found in the for and appointment to the board.
Although appointments will continue to be made on merit, the Nomination Committee and the board relevant section relating to each committee.
recognise that the board performs better when it includes members from varying backgrounds, experiences and perspectives.
Diversity will therefore continue to be a key consideration when contemplating the composition and refreshing of the board and senior management, although the board has no specifi c targets in relation to diversity including gender.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 57 Corporate governance report continued MEMBERSHIP IN 2013 THE CSR COMMITTEE The members of the CSR Committee are Clare Spottiswoode chair, Winnie Fok and Paul Spence.
Bo Lerenius retired from the board and left the committee following the companys annual general meeting on 6 June 2013.
On the same date, Mark Elliott left the committee and Ms Spottiswoode became the committees chair.
CSR Committee meetings are attended by the group communications director and the group human resources director and, from February 2014 onwards, also by Grahame Gibson, one of the executive directors of the board.
ROLE The CSR Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the groups CSR strategy.
This includes developing policies on various Clare Spottiswoode CSR-related matters for consideration by the board, reviewing the CSR Committee Chair activities of the executives who are responsible for CSR matters and monitoring performance of the group against its policies and any Corporate social responsibility remains associated targets.
It also takes responsibility for the companys CSR report.
at the heart of G4S business strategy and The companys separate CSR report for 2013 provides more detail on operations.
I was delighted to become chair the groups CSR strategy and the progress it has made during the year.
of the CSR Committee in June 2013, taking A brief summary of some of the issues which that report addresses is over from my predecessor Mark Elliott.
Although CSR matters considered by the KEY ACTIVITIES DURING 2013 committee are wide ranging, a signifi cant During the year, the committee reviewed the content of the companys area of focus for the group and the CSR 2013 CSR report and the results of the CSR materiality exercise Committee is to ensure the health and undertaken during the year.
safety of our colleagues around the world.
The committee also oversaw the groups implementation of a number Sadly, 55 of them lost their lives in 2013. of initiatives to improve health and safety for the groups employees.
This has been and remains a key concern With regard to road safety specifi cally, which remains a strong area of focus, initiatives included the Driving Force Rules campaign, which for the committee.
Whilst any employee was piloted in seven countries.
In addition, the committee oversaw the fatality is unacceptable, we are making good introduction of enhanced incident reporting and investigation processes progress in implementing our health and and the collection of lost time incident data.
safety campaigns and strategies, which Early in the year, the committee oversaw the launch of human rights include signifi cant work around road safety, and policy guidelines throughout the group and will monitor their effectiveness.
to reduce the number of injuries and The committee reviewed the effectiveness of communication of the fatalities across our global workforce.
groups whistle-blowing hotlines, following which the promotion of In addition, Safety First has been introduced these hotlines was improved.
as a new value for the group and Mark Elliott, the previous chair of the CSR Committee, and Clare performance-related objectives, which focus Spottiswoode, the current chair, led a meeting with a group of socially on health and safety awareness and role responsible investors in September 2013 to provide an update on the groups corporate responsibility programme.
modelling, have also been implemented.
Clare Spottiswoode 58 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance MEMBERSHIP IN 2013 THE RISK COMMITTEE The members of the Risk Committee are John Connolly chairman, Ashley Almanza, Himanshu Raja, Paul Spence and Tim Weller.
Other regular attendees include the group general counsel, the head of internal audit and the group director of risk and programme assurance.
ROLE The Risk Committee advises the board on the groups overall risk appetite, develops the groups risk management strategy, advises the board on risk exposures, reviews the level of risk within the group and assesses the effectiveness of the groups risk management systems.
The committees composition ensures that a broad-ranging set of skills and experience come together to take a fresh look at how the group manages risk in the business.
John Connolly Risk Committee Chairman KEY ACTIVITIES DURING 2013 The board decided last year that it would establish a distinct Risk Over the past year we have begun an Committee to oversee a comprehensive review of the groups in-depth review of our risk management enterprise risk management processes.
It also decided that the processes.
A new Risk Committee, chaired company would implement more fully the best practice three lines of defence model for risk management, by separating responsibility by me, was created in 2013.
The Risk for risk management from the group internal audit function.
Committee is tasked with overseeing this A thorough review of the effectiveness of the groups risk management review and the implementation of agreed processes was commissioned and carried out by Deloitte.
A specifi c group risk management took place in July and August 2013.
The Risk Committee met in September 2013 to receive Deloittes report, discuss the results and function, separate from internal audit, has agree a plan of action designed to reinforce the groups risk also been created.
Alastair James was appointed as group The conclusion of the Deloitte report was that, while the group has in director of risk and programme assurance place a basically sound risk management process, there were a number to lead the new function.
I am confi dent of areas where improvements could be made.
A plan was therefore developed to take forward Deloittes recommendations through 2014. that these actions will signifi cantly improve The terms of reference of the Risk Committee were fi nalised and management of the groups risks.
John Connolly During the year, a sub-committee of the Risk Committee met on fi five occasions to review major contract bids, the risk associated with them and mitigation plans.
IN 2014 In March, the Risk Committee reviewed the residual risks identifi ed by each of the regional risk and audit committees.
The residual risks were identifi ed as a result of the consolidation of the risks identifi ed by these regional committees following a revised methodology rolled out towards the end of 2013.
Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are set out on pages 34 to 41.
The Risk Committee plans to meet at least twice more in 2014 to carry out the following activities: review progress on the improvement of the risk management approach review the groups residual risk exposure and the progress of mitigation action plans review new and emerging risks.
The Risk Committee will consider all signifi cant risks to the group, not only fi financial risks.
The Risk Committees role is to support the Audit Committee and the board in discharging their responsibilities in respect of the monitoring, reviewing and reporting of internal control and risk management.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 59 Corporate governance report continued THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Membership in 2013 The members of the Audit Committee are Mark Seligman chairman, Adam Crozier, Paul Spence and Tim Weller.
On 24 January 2013, Adam Crozier and Paul Spence became members of the committee and Lord Condon and Ms Fok left.
Tim Weller joined the committee upon his appointment to the board on 1 April and Mr Lerenius left upon his retirement following the companys annual general meeting on 6 June 2013.
The committee members were selected for their breadth of commercial and fi financial expertise, necessary to fulfi l the Committees responsibilities.
Each member of the Audit Committee brings signifi cant and relevant fi financial experience gained at senior management level.
Their skills and experience are set out on pages 48 and 49.
The Audit Committees chairman, Mr Seligman, and Mr Weller, are considered by the board to be the members of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant fi financial experience.
Mark Seligman has served as Audit Committee chairman since May 2009 and has been a member of the committee since January 2006.
As part of the boards succession plan, Mark will stand down as chairman of the Audit Committee after the 2014 AGM, when the role will be taken on by Tim Weller.
Mark will remain a member of the committee until the end of this year.
Audit Committee meetings are attended by the chief fi financial offi cer, the group fi financial controller, the head of group internal audit, the company secretary and representatives of the group auditor.
The chairman of the board and the chief executive also attend meetings from time to time with the agreement of the chairman of the committee.
The role and work of the Audit Committee is described more fully in the Audit Committee report set out on pages 61 to 63.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Membership in 2013 The members of the Remuneration Committee are Mark Elliott chairman, Winnie Fok, Mark Seligman and Clare Spottiswoode.
Remuneration Committee meetings are attended by the group HR director, the director of compensation and benefi ts, representatives of the committees adviser and the company secretary.
The chief executive offi cer also attends from time to time to provide information and guidance to the committee on remuneration packages for senior executives within the group.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is more fully described in the Directors remuneration report, which appears on pages 64 to 79 of the annual report.
Role The Remuneration Committee is responsible for all elements of the remuneration of the executive directors and the chairman of the board and monitors the levels and structure of remuneration for the senior management team.
The chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the companys annual general meeting to respond to any questions from shareholders relating to the Remuneration Committees activities.
60 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
