Governance Demonstrating effective leadership Introduction: Ian Coull Chairman I amparticularly pleased to report thatthe Group again remained Group performance compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout theyear under review.
has continued to Against the backdrop of the strong performance achieved, and fullcompliance, the 2013 financial year was not without several exceed the boards governance challenges for the board.
expectations, for This report has been restructured this year.
It now includes a bespoke governance focused review, primarily to give shareholders and other stakeholders a better perspective on key governance whichthe executive events in the financial year, and also related board decisions taken to mitigate risk.
The review also extends to a summary of a number team is to be of governance initiatives the Group has either successfully completed, or has under way, in this vitally important area in 2013. congratulated.
The board looks forward to potential opportunities in 2013 14 andbeyond with a newly focused executive management team expected to deliver continued success against strategy.
Further improving returns for shareholders in line with strategy will be a priority, underpinned by a continuing commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Board composition Balance of non-executive Board membership Length of appointment Diversity and executive directors Gender balance 7 7 7 7 Non-executives 4 Chairman 1 02 years 2 Male 6 Executives 3 Senior independent director 1 25 years 3 Female 1 Non-executives 2 510 years 2 Executive directors 3 10 years nil 48 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Board: composition summary disclosed in the 2012 governance report throughout the Biographical summaries for each of the directors, their respective financial year, with the exception that the chief executive assumed committee responsibilities and their external directorships are set interim executive responsibility for the Housebuilding division in out on page 47.
December 2012 and until 30 June 2013 following the resignation ofIan Baker due to ill-health.
All directors will stand for re-election at the 2013 annual general meeting and all continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Senior independent director Amanda Burton remains the Groups senior independent director Frank Nelson retired on 30 September 2012 and Graham Prothero and is available to shareholders in accordance with the UK was appointed as Group Finance Director with effect 1 February Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Ken Gillespie was promoted to the position of Construction inthis capacityduring the year.
Division Chief Executive and an executive director of Galliford Try plc with effect 1 March 2013.
There have been no other changes Non-executive directors tothe board, either during or since the financial year.
The roles and responsibilities of each of the non-executives, whichare detailed in their individual letters of appointment, have Chairman and chief executive not changed from the previous financial year.
The letters of The chairman and chief executive continue to work closely appointment are available for inspection on request at the together on all aspects of the Groups performance and strategy.
Companys registered office and immediately prior to the annual Their roles within the Group remained unchanged from the general meeting.
2013 Governance Review Governance Risk Succession Explanation Governance Implications Mitigating Action Result andChange.
Absence of Group Finance Director Frank Nelson retired from the Both the plc and executive boards In the absence of a Group This approach, endorsed by the board and Group in September operated without a formally Finance Director, the Group plc board, successfully mitigated October 2012 to February 2013 2012 following over 24 years appointed executive Finance Financial Controller and both the risks associated to the service.
A rigorous selection Director between October 2012 Divisional Finance Directors absence of a Group Finance process for his replacement and 1 February 2013. reported directly to the Chief Director.
Since joining in February followed, which included internal Executive for the interim period.
2013, Graham has quickly and external candidates.
Graham All three also attended executive established an effective working Prothero, the Groups chosen board meetings for six months relationship with all three successor, was notavailable to from October to March 2013. individuals, who now combine to join as Finance Director until 2013 form the Groups most senior due to contractual commitments.
In late 2012 the Group Managing Loss of Managing Director, In response the Chief Executive These board decisions combined Sudden illness of Group Managing Director, Housebuilding, Ian Housebuilding Greg Fitzgerald assumed overall to put in place effective Director, Housebuilding Baker, stepped down as a responsibility for the division until contingency arrangements to member of the Groups executive a successor was found.
In May cover the immediate absence of board with immediate effect for 2013, the board announced the the Group Managing Director at reasons of serious ill-health.
Ian appointment of Andrew Richards executive board level.
Two internal subsequently resigned from as Group Managing Director, divisional appointments further theGroup.
Housebuilding with effect strengthened divisional 1July2013.
Recognising his contribution Diversity and non-executive and The board are keeping under Ken was also appointed as an Appointment of Construction tothe performance of the executive independence ratios review the composition of the executive director of Galliford Try Division Chief Executive, as an Construction & Investments impacted.
board in accordance with best plc with effect March 2013. executive director division through the financial practice and guidance.
downturn the board promoted Ken Gillespie to his current position of Construction Division Chief Executive.
Amanda Burton, currently the The board recognises that the The composition of the board Independence of Senior Groups senior independent independence criteria established including the positions of senior Independent Director from director and Chair of the by the Code is important, in independent director and chairs July2014 Remuneration Committee, will particular for the position of senior of board committees will be have served as a director of the independent director.
reviewed during the course of the Company for nine years in July financial year.
Amanda will therefore no longer be considered independent under the criteria required by the UK Corporate Governance Codeduring the next financial year.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 49 and two of Armstrong Bonham-Carters established board Governance advisers.
The evaluation covered all aspects of the Groups continued operations, performance, governance and strategy.
A thorough review of the Groups internal processes was also completed.
The findings and recommendations were presented to, and approved by, the board in May 2013.
Extension of Internal Performance Evaluation In conjunction with the boards first external performance evaluation, the Groups internal board performance evaluation processes have been successfully extended to the Groups executive, housebuilding and construction divisional boards in2013.
The extended processes broadly confirmed strong continuing levels of governance across the Groups most senior management groups, and identified specific areas for further collective focus by each board in 2013 14.
Electronic Papers A project has been initiated to introduce electronic papers for all board, committee and executive board meetings with the aim of 2013 Review: strategy implementation improving overall efficiencies, and streamlining related approval Following delivery of the three year housebuilding growth plan in processes and administration.
It is envisaged that the project will the three years to June 2012, the board successfully refocused be extended through the Groups governance structures to theGroup in 2012 13 on the new primary strategy of margin divisional, regional and business unit boards in due course.
enhancement for housebuilding and margin protection for construction.
More information on the boards strategy can be Oracle and Hyperion Implementation found in the Business Review on pages01 to 45.
The Group is well advanced in its planning, deployment andintegration ofOracle and Hyperion financial management The refocused strategy necessarily entailed certain changes to the software, which willreplace its existing financial systems across Groups approach to governance, in particular further developing the Group and divisional operations.
The project is expected to its delegated authority and internal control frameworks as generate performance efficiencies for the Group, reflecting the discussed in more detail on page 54.
This recalibration was significant investment made.
Oracle and Hyperion will also achieved early in the financial year to support delivery of the new improve governance processes, data integrity and security strategy, evidenced and supported in particular by the subsequent atGroup and project levels.
adoption of the Linden Way housebuilding divisional initiative and clear progress with Group wide Oracle implementation as Structure Simplification discussedon this page of the Report.
In parallel to Oracle implementation, a project to simplify the Groups legal structure has generated an approximate 25% 2013 Review: diversity reduction in the number of corporate entities registered and As stated in the 2012 governance report, the Group is aware of operated by the Group.
The project is continuing to identify further itsresponsibilities to diversity.
The gender balance at board level potential rationalisations and opportunities to generate other fell marginally during the financial year, from 17 to 14%, reflecting structural efficiencies.
Ken Gillespies appointment as an additional executive director in March.
The addition of Ken Gillespie to the board was considered Contingency Planning an appropriate appointment and the board is satisfied that the A Business Continuity Planning Forum has been established by appointment does not conflict with its stated commitment the Group, led by the Finance Director, to improve continuity todiversity.
arrangements and awareness for non-operational elements of Group and divisional activities.
The board actively considered a diverse range of applicants including shortlisting female applicants when searching for a Ethics & Compliance Committee replacement for Frank Nelson who retired as Group Finance In response to the continuing relevance of the Bribery Act Director in September 2012.
A final decision to appoint Graham andincreasing levels of regulation more widely, the Group has Prothero, with effect February 2013, as the outstanding candidate established an Ethics & Compliance committee, incorporating reflected the boards ultimate determination to recruit on merit.
thework of the Groups Anti-Money Laundering committee.
The revised and refreshed committee oversees and supports all With respect to board composition, the nomination committee aspects of the Groups ethical and regulatory conduct.
continues to undertake to actively consider a diverse range ofcandidates for board positions when they become available, Whistleblowing Processes whilst basing any final recruitment decision on merit.
The Group A revised whistleblowing policy, updated guidance and reporting has not currently set a defined target or deadline for improving was also made available across the Group to strengthen internal levels of diversity at board level, reflecting in part the construction control procedures in 2013. facing industries in which it operates and stable current membership.
The aim will be to improve the boards diversity Revised Induction including gender balance towards the 25% recommended by the Revised processes, in line with guidance issued by the Institute of Davies Report Women on Boards when appropriate and possible Chartered Secretaries and Administrators in June 2012, were to do so.
developed in advance of the appointment of both Graham Prothero and Ken Gillespie to the board in early 2013.
2013 Review: Governance initiatives External Performance Evaluation The boards first external performance evaluation was successfully completed in spring 2013 using the services of Armstrong Bonham-Carter LLP, a recognised independent consultant.
This evaluation built on the strong processes previously established by the boards internal performance evaluation.
The 2013 evaluation was centred on rigorous personal interviews conducted between all appointed board directors, selected executive management 50 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance 2012 13 Board Attendance Table Board Executive Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of Meetings 10 12 3 2 5 Ian Coull 10 n a by invitation 2 5 Chairman Amanda Burton 10 n a 3 2 5 Senior Independent Director Peter Rogers 9 n a 3 2 5 Non-executive Andrew Jenner 10 n a 3 2 5 Non-executive Greg Fitzgerald 10 12 by invitation n a n a Chief Executive Graham Prothero 5 5 by invitation n a n a Finance Director Appointed February 2013 Ken Gillespie 4 12 n a n a n a Construction Division Chief Executive Appointed March 2013 Kevin Corbett 10 12 3 2 5 Company Secretary & Legal Director Frank Nelson 3 3 by invitation n a n a Finance Director Retired September 2012 Ian Baker n a 2 n a n a n a Group Managing Director, Housebuilding Resigned December 2012 Board: attendance The board continues to benefit from its established reporting The above attendance table provides further information.
Meetings mechanisms, which ensure crucial management and project were led by the chairman, without the executives present, including specific information, and all significant group-wide developments, a specific performance assessment day at which individual are reported quickly and accurately.
The reporting mechanisms appraisals were completed.
The company secretary was in facilitate prompt approval of further actions.
Throughout the attendance for part of those meetings.
The senior independent yearthe board also received regular Group, divisional and director separately led a meeting of the non-executives to assess projectspecific presentations covering all aspects of the performance of the chairman without him being present.
Board: remit Board: information, advice, insurance and indemnity There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for prior Well established board procedures covering timely provision of authorisation by the board, the specifics of which have not information in advance of all board and committee meetings, and materially changed from those disclosed in 2012.
The schedule is for the provision of independent professional advice remained in available on the Groups website.
The board held its annual strategy operation throughout the financial year.
These procedures are away day in October 2012, and specifically approved the Group expected to be further improved by the 2013 initiatives described Business Plan for 2013-16 in line with the current group strategy.
in the governance review on page 50.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Calendar of 2012 13 plc board activities company secretary.
No director sought independent advice during the financial year.
andareas of focus Executive board report Month Activity or area of focus Membership of the executive board is detailed on page 47.
July 2012 Site Visit Finchley Memorial Hospital Executive management is the responsibility of the chief executive Corporate Responsibility Performance Review who chairs the executive board, which in turn takes responsibility Approval of 2012 13 Group Budget for the operational management of the Group under terms of September Full Year Results Statement & Annual Report reference delegated by the main board.
The board has further Presentation & Review: Galliford Try Partnerships delegated responsibility for making recommendations to the main October Strategy Meeting board on all items included in the formal schedule of matters reserved for board authorisation.
There are regular performance November Annual General Meeting and operational related reports and presentations from divisional December Health, Safety & Environment Performance Review management.
The assistant company secretary acts as secretary Presentation & Review: Affordable Housing & Regeneration to the executive board.
Approval of Business Plan 20132016 February 2013 Half Year Results Statement & Report The executive board meets on a monthly basis, and additional Presentation & Review: Galliford Try Infrastructure & meetings are convened when necessary to consider and authorise International specific operational or project matters.
March Presentation & Review: Galliford Try Building April Site Visit Mosaic, St Albans Housebuilding Divisional Presentation & Review May Presentation & Review: Group Sustainability Presentation & Review: Group Risks & Internal Control Framework June Presentation & Review: Oracle Implementation Presentation & Review: Galliford Try Investments Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 51 Governance continued Introduction: Andrew Jenner Audit Committee Chair Audit committee: composition and attendance Membership of the audit committee is detailed on page 47.
Improvements have again been Thechairman, chief executive, finance directorand company made in a year of consolidation secretary and legal director attend all committee meetings by invitation.
Andrew Jenner, who is committee chair, has a strong for the Groups internal control financial background which satisfies the code requirement that thecommittees membership has recent and relevant environment.
policies and assumptions, Audit committee: remit business and risk management The committee meets at least three times a year, this number being deemed appropriate to the audit committees role and systems, and compliance with responsibilities.
The committees delegated authorities and banking covenants have again calendar of prioritised work have not changed substantially from those disclosed on pages 46 to 47 of the 2012 Annual Report and been the committees focus.
Financial Statements and include: delegated responsibility for financial reporting: monitoring external audit, internal audit, risk and controls: and Audit committee report 2013 reviewing instances of whistleblowing.
The Group operates a strong system of internal controls, and has effective checks and balances in place to safeguard the interests The authorities and calendar of work remain in line with the of all stakeholders.
requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The committee also continues to meet with the internal and external The director of risk and internal audit continues to refine the audit teams in the absence of executive management.
The terms Groups robust internal audit and risk management programmes, of reference are available on the Group website.
and with selective use of a now established team of external risk consultants from Deloitte is applying related methodologies to No significant non-audit related services were provided during the improving performance and procedures in areas spanning financial year.
Policies and review mechanisms both governing the contingency planning, fraud awareness and on site processes.
provision of material non-audit services, and safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, remained in The committee considers that the report is clear and concise in its force throughout the financial year.
The committee is satisfied that summary of performance in the financial year.
All material matters the incumbent external auditor  LLP of interest to shareholders and external stakeholders have been remains fully independent, and accordingly has recommended to reported to provide the information required to assess the Groups the board that a resolution to reappoint PwC is proposed at the performance, business model and strategy.
There were no 2013 annual general meeting.
significant accounting issues in the report or financial results that required the committee to question or overrule the judgement of The board notes that the UK Corporate Governance Code executive management.
recommends the external auditbe put to tender every ten years from October 2012, and the Competition Commissions future requirement for five year audit tenders published in July.
PwC were originally appointed as the Groups auditors on engagement in January 2001.
The committee therefore intends to tender the engagement following the rotation date of the current lead partner, Pauline Campbell, which is scheduled to be in September 2014.
Further information on the Groups internal controls can be found in the consideration of audit, risk and internal control matters onpage 54.
52 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Introduction: Peter Rogers CBE Nomination Committee Chair Board composition and progress made by potential internal The committee oversaw candidates for key executive roles remains subject to continuous review by the committee.
The authorities otherwise delegated to thorough recruitment and the committee by the board comprise: review processes for the board reviewing the size, structure and composition of the board appointments effective in early evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board including the impact of new appointments 2013, and continues to monitor overseeing and recommending the recruitment of any new directors the composition of the board ensuring appointments are appropriately made against and its committees to ensure objective criteria and keeping the leadership and succession requirements of the all are optimally composed.
The committee remains wholly independent in accordance withthe requirements of provision B.
2.1 of the UK Corporate Nomination committee report 2013 Governance Code.
External consultants, The Zygos Partnership Nomination committee: composition and attendance Zygos, have been engaged to advise on all prospective board Membership of the nomination committee is detailed on page 47, appointments, and the appropriateness of open advertising and which was chaired by Peter Rogers, an independent nonother recruitment methodologies.
There is no other connection executive director, throughout the financial year.
between Zygos and the Group.
The terms of reference can be found on the Group website.
Nomination committee: remit The committee took direct responsibility for the processes which led to the appointment of Graham Prothero as Group Finance Director in February.
A detailed job specification was prepared by the committee and external consultants appointed to provide advice on the availability of suitable external candidates.
The committee carried out a formal, rigorous and transparent selection process, which included considering a shortlist of diverse potential candidates, before recommending the final appointment to theboard.
The committee also oversaw and approved the appointment of Ken Gillespie as Construction Division Chief Executive and an executive director of Galliford Try plc in March.
Both directors completed personalised Group induction programmes on appointment.
Further background to both appointments, together with the boards agreed position on diversity in accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, can be found in the governance review commencing on page 50.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 53 Governance continued Remuneration committee report 2013 The Groups annual general meeting, traditionally held in November each year, continues to be a popular means for private Remuneration committee: composition and attendance shareholders to receive personal updates on performance from Membership of the remuneration committee is detailed on page board members and share opinions on progress.
The committee was chaired by Amanda Burton, the senior the company were in attendance at the 2012 annual general independent director, throughout the financial year.
meeting and all arrangements for the meetings followed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and related Remuneration committee: remit best practice.
The authorities delegated to the committee by the board include determining all elements of remuneration of the executive directors Reporting, risk, internal audit and controls and senior management, and overseeing all aspects of performance The governance review commencing on page50 details the related elements of executive remuneration.
Further information specific initiatives undertaken by the Group during the financial regarding the work of the committee during the financial year can be year, including those with a risk management and internal audit found in the reformatted 2013 remuneration report on page 56. focus.
The boards approach to risk and internal audit and the material controls of the Groups established internal control Governance policies framework comprise: The Group continues to operate a suite of governance and risk management policies, procedures and training programmes, all organisational structure: each division has its own management ofwhich address obligations arising under the relevant legislation.
board and each business unit is led by a managing director The policies have been further strengthened by the initiatives andteam: furtherdescribed in the governance review on page 50.
Bribery contractual review and commitments: the Group has clearly Actawareness training was rolled out to all staff under the defined policies and procedures for entering into contractual Groupse-learning platform during the financial year.
The Groups commitments which apply across its business units and Whistleblowing policy was also refreshed and updated together with operations and are enforced through the Groups legal associated guidance being issued during the course of the year.
authorities matrix: investment in land and development: land expenditure is The Group corporate and finance manuals, which summarise the approved subject to clearly defined policies and procedures, policies, procedures and authority matrices by which the central significant investments are approved at executive and plc functions and divisions operate, were reviewed and updated board levels under divisional policies and procedures: during the financial year.
operational activity: there are established frameworks to manage and control all site operations including health, safety Shareholder relations and environmental procedures, regular performance The Company continues to prioritise maintaining effective monitoring, and external accountability to site stakeholders: relationships with all its shareholders and accordingly seeks to financial planning framework: the Group reviews and engage appropriately with all interested parties.
The board, and redevelops its business plan on an annual basis, following inparticular the chairman, chief executive and finance director, specific board meetings held to consider strategy.
A detailed continue to organise a range of meetings with existing and annual budget is prepared for each financial year which is prospective institutional shareholders.
Thechairman, and senior approved by the board: independent director and Remuneration Committee chair, held operational and financial reporting: improvements have been specific meetings to consult with major shareholders on succession made to the Groups reporting and financial systems as a result and remuneration matters during the course of the year.
of implementation of both Oracle and Hyperion systems.
An exacting profit and cash reporting and forecasting regime is in Specific reports regarding shareholder views generally are place across the Group.
As well as the emphasis placed on regularly reported to the board for analysis and discussion.
The cash flow, income and balance sheet reporting, health, safety Group welcomed the numerous proxy and institutional updates on and environmental matters are prioritised within monthly voting guidance received during the financial year, together with operational reports: related communications, and recognises the increasing attempts pension plan administration: the administration of the Groups by the investor community to meet the expectations of the UK fully closed final salary and defined contribution pension plans Stewardship Code.
The board, and non-executive directors, are are outsourced to professional service providers.
Each of the available to attend meetings with shareholders and address any final salary schemes have an independent scheme secretary significant concerns stakeholders may have.
and a proportion of independent trustees to provide additional layers of external scrutiny: assurance provided by non-audit functions: a number of other Group functions provide assurance in areas including, but not limited to, health, safety and environment: legal contract review and compliance: and construction industry regulation.
54 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Group Governance Reporting Structure 2013 plc Board Directors: 7 Meetings annually: 10 Remuneration Executive Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Committee Directors: 5 Directors: 3 Directors: 4 Directors: 4 Meetings annually: 12 Meetings annually: 3 Meetings annually: 2 Meetings annually: 4 Executive Housebuilding Construction & Investments Other group and Divisional Board Divisional Board functional steering Directors: 7 Directors: 6 committees and Meetings annually: 10 Meetings annually: 6 forums Housebuilding Building Board Directors: 6 Divisional Board Directors: 19 Meetings annually: 8 Meetings annually: 6 Infrastructure Board Directors: 7 Meetings annually: 11 Partnerships Board Directors: 9 Meetings annually: 8 The Groups governance reporting structure shown here clarifies Compliance statement the effective Group, divisional and operational board structures The Group believes the highest standards of corporate upon which the delegated authorities matrices and corporate and governance are integral to the delivery of its strategy, providing finance manuals are overlaid.
themeans by which the board manages the expectations of stakeholders to optimise sustainable performance as summarised The board reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the in this report.
materialinternal controls during the financial year and has taken any necessary action to remedy any significant weaknesses or The UK Corporate Governance Code, applicable to all premium findings identified.
During the financial year, a programme of listed companies, is the governance code to which the Group 17internal audits was completed across the Groups operations issubject.
The Group remains complaint with the UK Listing andprogress checks were completed against previous Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7.2.
All significant internal control failings or information can be found in the Directors Report on page65.
weaknesses, including compliance with the provisions of the Group corporate and finance manuals, have been rectified either As a member of the FTSE 350 indices, Galliford Try has committed during the financial year or to the date of this report.
to complying in full with all provisions of the Code and in doing so seeks to both support and foster the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Group complied in full with all provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
For and on behalf of the board Kevin Corbett Company Secretary & Legal Director Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 55
