strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts l o r t t n E n e x o m t C e e r l g n a a a n n l r a A e M t u n k d I s i i t d R n a audit cOMMittee rePOrt Membership and Governance The Audit Committee is composed of Non-Executive Directors and is appointed by the Board to provide a wide range of financial and commercial expertise, appropriate to fulfil the Committees duties.
The Committee continues to meet the UK Corporate Governance Codes requirement that at least one member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has formal terms of reference, approved by the Board, which comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee reviews its terms of reference annually and refers any amendments to the Board for approval.
The terms of reference are available on our website: www.
The Committee met three times during the financial year and invited the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend its meetings.
The Committee also held separate private sessions with external audit, Mike Buzzacott internal audit and the Group Finance Director.
chairman of the audit committee committee role and Key areas of responsibility The Committees role and responsibilities include We design an annual work reviewing and monitoring: the financial reporting process: programme and agenda the integrity of the Groups financial statements: the Companys reporting to shareholders: the effectiveness of the Groups accounting systems to ensure we fulfil our and control environment, including risk management and the internal audit function: and commitments.
the effectiveness and independence of the Groups external auditors, including any non-audit services they provide to the Group.
The Committees main objectives are to monitor the The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, evaluate Group has suitable arrangements for employees to raise its system of risk management and internal control, concerns in confidence, and for reviewing the Groups and oversee the performance of the internal audit systems and controls for preventing bribery.
function and the external auditors.
We design our annual work programme and agenda to ensure The Committee reports its findings to the Board, we fulfil these commitments.
identifying any necessary actions or improvements and recommending the steps to be taken.
Reviewing of annual and Monitoring and evaluating half-year financial statements the adequacy and Evaluating critical accounting eectiveness of the risk policies, key assumptions management and internal and judgements control systems Monitoring the quality of disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards Monitoring of Approval of scope and plans independence and Monitoring of management objectivity implementation of remedial Agreeing scope and fees actions Monitoring level of Evaluating performance non-audit services Evaluating performance Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|59 g n i I t n r t o e p r e n R a l l a A i u c n d i a t n i F AUDiT COmmiTTEE REPORT CONTiNUED The Committees main Activities During the Year The Committee assessed the external auditors At its three meetings during the year, the Committee performance, based on questionnaires completed by key focused on: financial staff and Committee members.
This assessment covered the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed financial Reporting audit plan, the auditors robustness and perceptiveness in The Committee reviewed, with both management and their handling of key accounting and audit judgements, the external auditors, the appropriateness of the half-year the content of their reports and cost effectiveness.
The reviews included critical accounting policies, key assumptions and internal Audit judgements, the quality of disclosures and compliance The Committee reviewed and agreed the internal audit with financial reporting standards, all material functions scope, terms of reference, resource and issues affecting the financial statements and any activities.
The Committee received regular reports from correspondence from the Financial Reporting the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management on Council in relation to financial reporting.
internal audits work and managements responses to proposals made in internal audits reports during the year.
The Committee also reviewed the Annual Report and The Committee reviewed the internal audit functions Accounts as a whole, to ensure it is fair, balanced and performance and continued to meet the Head of Internal understandable, and provides the information necessary Audit and Risk Management without management for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, being present.
Committee Evaluation monitoring Business Risks The Committee reviews its performance and effectiveness The Committee reviewed the Group-wide risk annually.
During the financial year, the Committee used a management process, which is designed to identify, questionnaire to consider its effectiveness.
The key areas evaluate and mitigate risks.
The Committee discussed assessed included understanding of roles and with the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, in responsibilities, monitoring the integrity of financial the presence of the external auditor, the risks identified, reporting, reviewing the Companys system of internal managements plans to mitigate them and any potential control and risk management, and monitoring the impact on the financial statements.
effectiveness of internal and external auditors.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the Groups tax External Auditors Appointment strategy and pension arrangements.
Deloitte LLP were first appointed as the Groups external auditor for the period ended 30 June 2006, following a internal Control System formal tender process.
The current audit partners first The Committee conducted its annual review of the audit period was the financial year ended 30 June 2011. effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures, and reviewed internal audits findings at each The Committee reviewed the nature and fees for the scheduled meeting.
The Committees review of internal external auditors non-audit services and compliance with controls included the Groups whistleblowing policy and the Companys Non-Audit Services by Auditors Policy.
The Committee is satisfied that using Deloitte for such services does not impair their independence as the External Audit Groups external auditor.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the scope and fees for the external auditors audit work, and held detailed The Committee further reviewed the performance and discussions of the results of their audits.
The Committee effectiveness of the external auditors.
As a consequence continued its practice of meeting with the external of its satisfaction with Deloittes independence and auditor, without management being present.
It also effectiveness, the Committee has recommended to the further reviewed the external auditors objectivity and Board that the external auditor be reappointed for a independence and the Companys policy on engaging the further year.
external auditor to supply non-audit services.
mike Buzzacott Chairman of the Audit Committee 2 September 2013 60|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013
