STRATEGiC CORPORATE fiNANCiAL REViEw GOVERNANCE STATEmENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT Board membership and Roles The Board is responsible for managing the Group.
We GENUS PLC BOARD currently have two Executive Directors, an independent Non-Executive Chairman and three other independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors biographies appear on pages 50 and 51.
BOARD COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES The Board has approved clearly defined roles and responsibilities for our Chairman and Chief Executive.
Bob Lawson, our Chairman, is primarily responsible for GENUS R&D PORTfOLiO AUDiT NOmiNATiON EXECUTiVE running the Board.
Karim Bitar, our Chief Executive, is mANAGEmENT COmmiTTEE COmmiTTEE LEADERShiP responsible for achieving our operational and financial TEAm TEAm targets and for implementing our strategy.
Nigel Turner is our Senior Non-Executive Director.
He is available to shareholders with concerns they cannot resolve through our Chairman, Chief Executive or CORPORATE REmUNERATiON RESPONSiBiLiTY Group Finance Director.
COmmiTTEE COmmiTTEE To ensure we properly manage our business and implement our strategy, the Board delegates day-to-day operating decisions to the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, other members of the Genus Executive Details of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Leadership Team GELT and their management teams.
Committees can be found in their respective statements on In turn, they recommend strategy and plans to the Board, pages 59 to 74.
Terms of reference for these committees make routine decisions on resources and ensure we have are available on our website: www.
robust operational and financial controls.
The Board regularly invites members of our business unit GELTs membership and its responsibilities are described management teams to present to the Board and on pages 52 and 53, while the remit of the Corporate to take part in aspects of strategic reviews.
Responsibility Committee is set out on page 48.
The Board believes the Directors have the right The R&D PMT replaced the Science Committee at the experience and calibre to make effective judgements start of this financial year.
It enables comprehensive about our strategy, performance, resourcing and conduct.
oversight of our R&D programme and gives our business We ensure the Directors receive the training they need, units direct involvement in prioritising our R&D initiatives, and all Directors have access to advice and services from to ensure we meet customer needs today and tomorrow.
the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, as well The R&D PMT meets twice a year.
Key discussions this as to independent professional advice.
year included: implementing a Group-wide ideas submission process, The chart below shows the length of time each of our to ensure we consider and progress new ideas that Directors has served on the Board: could lead to value-added products and services: reviewing and prioritising continuing and new research ideas with Genus PIC and Genus ABS, which confirmed Name Date of Appointment our focus areas as genomic selection, disease resistance and gender skew: Bob Lawson November 2010 establishing a Scientific Computing division within R&D, Karim Bitar September 2011 to allow us to more efficiently accomplish scientific Stephen Wilson January 2013 computing tasks, including the input, storage and Nigel Turner January 2008 processing of big data: and Mike Buzzacott May 2009 reviewing and updating the business about our growing Professor Barry Furr, OBE December 2006 intellectual property portfolio.
To ensure the Board works effectively, the Directors The Boards Activities receive Board packs well in advance of meetings.
The The Boards Remit Group General Counsel & Company Secretary makes sure We have a formal schedule of matters which are reserved that we follow Board procedures and that we comply with for the Boards approval.
These include: all of our statutory and regulatory obligations.
setting and monitoring our Group strategy: reviewing our trading performance: how the Board is Structured ensuring we have adequate funding: The diagram shows the Board and its sub-committees, as examining major capital expenditure projects well as the committees that report directly to the Board and possible acquisitions: GELT, our new Corporate Responsibility Committee and approving material contracts: the Research & Development Portfolio Management Team formulating policy on key issues: and R&D PMT.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT CONTiNUED Attendance at meetings The table below shows the Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings.
As well as its regular meetings, the Board can hold additional meetings to consider time-critical issues.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Non-Executive Chairman Bob Lawson 10 10 3 7 7 1 1 Executive Directors Karim Bitar 10 10 3 7 7 1 1 John Worby 5 5 1 3 1 Stephen Wilson 5 5 2 3 n a Non-Executive Directors Nigel Turner 10 10 3 3 7 7 1 1 Mike Buzzacott 10 10 3 3 7 7 1 1 Barry Furr 10 10 3 3 6 7 1 1 Note: Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of Board or committee meetings the Director could have attended.
John Worby retired from the Board on 31 March 2013.
Stephen Wilson joined the Board on 14 January 2013 and succeeded John Worby as Group Finance Director on 1 March 2013.
Evaluating the Board The Boards Activities During the Year Board Effectiveness Review Cycle The Boards main activities during the year are We have a three-year cycle for evaluating the Boards described below: effectiveness, using both internal and external evaluations.
Leadership Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Appointment of Stephen Wilson as Group External Board Follow up Internal Finance Director effectiveness questionnaires by questionnaires and review produces same external interviews with the Appointment of Tom Kilroy as Group General an action plan for evaluation Chairman and Counsel & Company Secretary areas of focus consultant, to Group General monitor progress Counsel & Strategy with the focus Company Held strategic update away day with GELT areas Secretary Regular updates on potential joint venture and acquisition opportunities Update on competitor landscape The Review Process Review of the Shennong joint venture farm This year, the Board underwent a formal, rigorous and Approval of a new 100% Genus, 1,000 sow capacity independent external review.
This was carried out by nucleus farm stocked with the latest genetics DrTracy Long of Boardroom Review, who has no other Updates on the Besun joint venture progress connection with the Group.
The Chairman agreed the scope of the review, which included individual interviews Research & Development with each Board member and attendance and Regular updates on R&D developments and new observation at the April 2013 Board meeting.
initiatives Boardroom Review gave feedback individually and at the May Board meeting.
Performance Regular updates on business performance and The review explored three key aspects: market conditions the work of the Board strategy, risk and control, and performance management : Employees the Board environment culture and composition : and Review of the new performance management the use of Board time planning and allocation.
framework, work levels, our new structure and how we are aligning rewards with strategy.
The Reviews Conclusion Regular updates on recruitment to key roles, with During the review, the Board demonstrated particular afurther update at the August 2013 Board meeting strengths in the following areas: Update, after the year end, on the Talent Review Board culture and contribution, and the style of undertaken chairmanship: clear strategy, including knowledge of the consumer Effectiveness landscape and shareholders views: External Board evaluation carried out by internal and external financial reporting, the Audit BoardroomReview Committee and the oversight of risk: the executive culture and approach to remuneration: and prioritisation of issues and quality of information.
56|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 STRATEGiC CORPORATE fiNANCiAL REViEw GOVERNANCE STATEmENTS The evaluation also found that the Boards size Risk management and internal Control encourages close dialogue between Directors and a Risk management flexible approach.
The balance of formal and informal time The Board is ultimately responsible for identifying the throughout the year enhances the Boards dynamics.
major business risks we face.
Genus has an established risk management system, which identifies, evaluates and Progress Against the 2012 Evaluation prioritises the risks and uncertainties which could affect The Board made progress against the areas for the Group, and reviews the controls and risk mitigations development identified in the 2012 review.
In particular: we have in place.
The system applies to all of our the Board increased the number of meetings at the worldwide businesses, our divisional business reviews, Groups global operations by meeting at DeForest, USA, GELT, the Audit Committee and the Board.
This enabled the Board to gain a greater understanding of the geographic and We further enhanced our management of business risk operational opportunities in these areas.
Site and in the year, through risk management workshops with customer visits ensure the Non-Executive Directors divisional management teams, improved reporting of risks are better informed and send a positive message and Board presentations on certain specific risk areas.
to employees: the Board continued to increase the strategic element The key risks identified and our mitigating actions to of its meetings by scheduling annual strategic update control these risks are summarised on pages 40 and 41. away-days with GELT, with the first taking place in January 2013: and internal Control the Board increased its focus on succession planning The Board is responsible for our internal control system and people development by being regularly updated.
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board, with the Audit Committees assistance, has reviewed the effectiveness of our internal control system and our Areas of focus for 2013 14 financial, operational and compliance controls and risk The evaluation identified areas for the Board to management.
This assessment considered all significant consider this year, including: internal control aspects which arose during the year.
the evolution of the Boards composition, including international experience and gender diversity: The assessment considered our internal audit work the quality of discussion and information regarding programme and management reports prepared at the the competitive landscape: time our interim and final reports and financial statements a deeper review of Executive succession planning: were approved.
It assessed whether we had identified, and evaluated, managed and controlled significant risks, improving reporting cycles and communication whether any significant weaknesses had arisen and and the use of Board time.
whether we had taken the necessary remedial action.
The management reports were based on the output In addition, the Board has set itself the following of detailed risk workshops conducted by the Group priorities for the coming financial year: centrally and regionally in the year, and responses to continuing its global site visits, in line with the comprehensive questionnaires issued to each of our 2012 Board review outcome: business units and regional management.
developing the Board in the area of corporate responsibility CR, aligning CR with the Groups In addition, the assessment considered risk events and strategic objectives and establishing the new CR controls that we had recognised through other day-toCommittee, as described on page 48: day risk management activities, namely the divisional continuing to ensure its development in governance: and business reviews, GELT meetings, Main Board meetings increased focus on the talent review.
While these assessments routinely identify areas for Shareholder Relations improvement, the Board has neither identified nor been We have a continuing dialogue with institutional investors advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has through our investor relations programme.
The Chief determined to be material or significant.
Executive and Group Finance Director meet frequently with institutional shareholders and private client brokers, Our internal Control System with the Chairman also attending some meetings.
An internal control system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business The Board discusses feedback from these meetings, objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not including feedback obtained for us by independent absolute assurance against material misstatement or brokers and our advisors.
This allows all Directors to loss.
The key elements of our internal control systems understand major shareholders views.
The Chairman are as follows: and Senior Non-Executive Director also maintain contact with major shareholders.
Management Structure The Board delegates authority to operate the Groups The Annual General Meeting AGM gives the Board subsidiary companies to the Chief Executive, GELT and an opportunity to communicate with both private and their management teams, within limits set by the Board.
institutional investors, and we welcome their involvement.
Bob Lawson, Mike Buzzacott, Nigel Turner and Barry Furr will be available to answer questions, as Chairmen of the Board and its Committees, at the AGM on 15November 2013.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEmENT CONTiNUED Appointments to our most senior management positions The main internal control and risk management processes require the Boards approval.
We also have formal related to our preparation of consolidated accounts are empowerment levels, which set out delegation of Group-wide accounting policies and procedures, authority, authorisation levels and other control segregation of duties, a robust consolidation and procedures.
Operating standards set by GELT reporting system, various levels of management review and their management teams supplement these and centrally defined process control points and procedures, as required for each subsidiarys type reconciliation processes.
of business and its location.
Investment Appraisal GELT meets regularly to review the Groups performance We regulate our capital expenditure through our budget against its budget, strategy and other key factors.
In process and predetermined authorisation levels.
Detailed addition, the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, written proposals must be submitted to the Board for Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and the expenditure above certain levels.
Group Financial Controller hold monthly business review meetings with each business unit.
We carry out due diligence work for business acquisitions and subject major projects and all acquisitions to timely Quality and Integrity of Personnel post-implementation reviews.
This allows us to investigate High-quality people are an essential part of the control and correct any underperformance against expectations environment, as is maintaining our ethical standards.
We or any significant overspends.
ensure the integrity and competence of our employees through high recruitment standards, post-recruitment Internal Audit training courses and a consistent global approach to Our Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management is performance management.
responsible for our internal audit activities, which are provided by a mix of in-house and external resources.
Information and Financial Reporting Systems During the year, they completed a risk-based audit Our planning and financial reporting procedures include programme agreed by the Audit Committee.
The results detailed operational budgets for the year ahead, along of these audits and the follow up of resulting actions are with three-year strategic plans, which the Board reviews reviewed by the Audit Committee and communicated to and approves.
We monitor performance throughout the external auditors.
the year, through monthly reporting of financial results, key performance indicators and variances, updated The regions and businesses complete risk and control self full-year forecasts and information on key business risks.
assessments twice a year, which are reviewed by Internal This allows us to take action as necessary to address Audit to identify internal control deficiencies and business issues.
The results of this exercise are communicated to senior management and the Audit Committee.
