NomiNatioN Committee RepoRt activities During the Year The Committee met once during the year, to consider the appointment of our Group Finance Director.
appointment of Group Finance Director In identifying a new Group Finance Director, we sought candidates with the following attributes: experience of operating in a listed company environment: a global perspective and intercultural sensitivity: experience of driving continual improvement in a successful organisation: and highly developed business and commercial acumen, pragmatism and a strong detail orientation.
Candidates also needed to demonstrate strategic thinking, the ability to operate as a true business partner, a strong results orientation, team leadership, and collaboration and influencing skills.
Stephen Wilson was the outstanding candidate and we Bob Lawson Chairman were pleased to appoint him to the role.
The Board considered that Stephens financial and business development skills, his experience of working in large The Committee met once global enterprises and his record of building strong finance teams will greatly benefit the Group.
during the year, to consider induction the appointment of our Following his appointment, Stephen underwent a tailored induction programme to effectively introduce Group Finance Director.
The programmes objectives were for Stephen to: learn about the organisation and build relationships with the finance team, the Genus Executive Leadership Team and the Board: understand the key drivers of our porcine and Chairmans overview bovinebusinesses: The Committee is responsible for proposing candidates understand key financial matters: and for appointment to the Board.
Its duties include regularly build relationships with key investors, analysts, banks reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition, and other advisors.
including the skills, knowledge and experience the Board needs.
We then make recommendations to the Board if changes are needed, taking into account succession The programme included visits to our businesses around planning for Directors and other senior executives, and the world, Board and Audit Committee meetings, the Groups challenges and opportunities.
introductions to key teams and an investor roadshow.
membership and Governance Diversity The Nomination Committee is chaired by Bob Lawson The Board understands the importance of gender and includes Nigel Turner, Mike Buzzacott, Barry Furr diversity and we are committed to increasing the and Karim Bitar.
participation of women at all levels of our business.
We recognise Lord Daviess recommendations and The Committee has written terms of reference, which the value that diversity brings to boards.
cover the authority delegated to it by the Board.
These are available from our website: www.
However, the Board must view diversity in its broadest sense, meaning that we want a broad range of relevant skills and experience.
We therefore base appointments on an objective assessment of the Groups needs, its strategy and the Boards current skills and experience.
This requires us to make appointments solely on merit, so we have the right Board composition to direct the Group effectively.
Bob Lawson Chairman 2 September 2013 74|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013
