CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LETTER fROm ThE ChAiRmAN Corporate governance plays a vital role in business success, and I am pleased to report that the standard of governance in Genus remains high.
Corporate governance plays a Evaluating the Boards Considering Diversity vital role in business success, Effectiveness As Genus grows, we need to and I am pleased to report that Complying with the Code, however, ensure that the Board evolves the standard of governance is only one element of good to keep pace.
We are therefore in Genus remains high.
It is also important beginning the process of recruiting that the Board operates effectively a Non-Executive Director with Good corporate governance allows and this year we had a rigorous an international background.
We boards to direct their companies external evaluation.
This found that are fully aware of Lord Daviess effectively, entrepreneurially and the Board works well, with a number recommendations about gender prudently, to deliver long-term of particular strengths as well as diversity and always take this success.
The strategy and business areas where we can develop.
More into account when recruiting.
We must therefore be the starting point information about the evaluation also need to consider diversity for the Companys governance can be found on page 56. in its broadest sense and ensure approach.
Corporate governance that we have the right spread of should be a facilitator, providing Strengthening Our skills for the business.
This years the framework within which the management Team evaluation found that the Directors Company can operate successfully.
There was one change to the Board have a complementary mix of skills during the year.
John Worby retired and experience, which enable a Complying with the Code as Group Finance Director, with knowledgeable dialogue about The UK Corporate Governance Stephen Wilson joining us to take the Group and its markets.
Code the Code supports this up the role.
We were delighted to view.
We strongly believe that its recruit Stephen, who brings strong Summary principles-based approach is the financial and business development In summary, the Board is committed right one.
It gives companies the skills, experience of working in large to maintaining high standards flexibility to develop governance global enterprises and a record of of corporate governance.
We arrangements that suit them and building sound finance teams.
will continue to develop our allows shareholders to judge if those governance framework, so we can arrangements are appropriate.
Since the end of the financial year, effectively support the successful Tom Kilroy has joined Genus as implementation of our strategy.
We have continued to comply Group General Counsel & Company with all the provisions in the 2010 Secretary.
Tom brings essential edition of the Code, which was legal and commercial skills to the applicable standard for this the Group, including valuable financial year.
The 2012 Code experience of optimising and will apply from our next financial protecting intellectual property.
year onwards and we expect Bob Lawson to be fully compliant with it.
