STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Leadership The Role of the Board More online The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success A full description of the role of the Board, which includes of GKN, with the overarching aim of safeguarding a number of specific responsibilities reserved for its decision, shareholders interests.
It achieves this principally through: is available on our website at www.
providing entrepreneurial leadership within an effective Board meetings risk management framework: Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with setting the strategic objectives of the Group and ensuring the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Company the necessary resources are in place to meet those aims: Secretary.
An annual programme of items for discussion by setting the values and standards of the Group: and the Board is kept under review by the Company Secretary to reviewing management performance.
ensure that all matters reserved to the Board and other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
Agendas are As Chairman, Mike Turner is responsible for leading the closely aligned to the key aspects of the Boards role: below Board and for its effectiveness.
Nigel Stein leads the business are examples of areas of the Boards focus in 2013. as Chief Executive and, with the support of the Executive Committee, he is responsible for the execution of the Groups strategy and the day-to-day running of the Group.
Board focus areas in 2013 Strategy Risk Reviewed and approved the Groups strategic plans Assessed the risks to the achievement of the Group and annual budget strategy including those associated with the further expansion of operations in emerging markets Evaluated and approved the expansion of Shanghai GKN HUAYU Driveline Systems Co Limited, GKNs joint Considered the principal risks and uncertainties venture with HASCO in China which could impact the Group Considered and approved the establishment of Driveline Approved the level of risk financing and insurance operations in Russia Capabilities Approved the sale of the Groups 49% share in Composite Considered succession planning for the Board and Technology and Applications Ltd to its joint venture for senior executive positions within the Group as well partner Rolls-Royce as the succession planning framework Control Kept under review the technology plans for the Group Considered the processes in place to enable the Board including the application of emerging manufacturing to assess whether the annual report is fair, balanced and technologies understandable and approved the establishment of a Performance committee to oversee the Companys compliance with Reviewed divisional strategic and operational performance such disclosure obligations Considered Group financial performance against budget Assessed, with the support of the Audit Committee, and forecast the effectiveness of internal control and audit processes Considered health and safety performance throughout Conducted an external evaluation of the effectiveness the Group of the Board www.
com 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board meets formally approximately eight times a year.
the detailed work they carry out.
Their terms of reference are At least one meeting is combined with a Board visit to the available on our website.
All Board Committees are supported Groups business locations: in 2013 the Board visited the by the Company Secretariat.
recently acquired GKN Aerospace Engine Systems facility in Briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Committee Sweden and GKN Aerospace facilities located in San Diego members in advance of each meeting and, in respect of the and Garden Grove in the US.
A number of informal meetings are Audit Committee, made available to other Directors.
In order held during the year which help to strengthen relations between that the Board remains fully appraised of their work, the Directors.
There are sufficient opportunities for the Chairman Committee Chairmen report formally on Committee activities to meet with the non-executive Directors, without the executive at the subsequent Board meeting.
Directors being present, should this be deemed appropriate.
The Committees can obtain external professional advice Board Committees at the cost of the Company if deemed necessary.
Certain of the Boards responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees which play an important governance role through Board Committees and responsibilities GKN PLC BOARD Audit Remuneration Nominations Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Shonaid Jemmett-Page Richard Parry-Jones Mike Turner Nigel Stein Composition All independent All independent All non-executive Directors Executive Directors, non-executive Directors non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive Group HR Director, Company Secretary Meets At least 4 times annually Periodically when required Periodically when required Approximately monthly Role Monitors and reviews Agrees the remuneration Leads the process for Leads, oversees and certain aspects of of the Directors and identifying and appointing directs the activities management and auditor Company Secretary Directors with the skills of the Group.
conduct which could within the terms of the and experience to deliver Executes the Groups impact the financial agreed policy.
the continued success strategic plan.
performance of the of the Company.
Reviews proposed short Approves and leads the Company.
This includes: and long term incentive Keeps under review consistent implementation monitoring the integrity payments to executive the succession planning of business and of the financial reporting Directors in light of annual and leadership needs operational processes.
process: financial results to ensure of the Group.
Identifies, evaluates that such payments are Keeps under review overseeing the Groups and monitors the risks justified by the Groups the structure, size and internal control and risk facing the Group and performance.
composition of the Board management systems: decides how they are Monitors the level and and its Committees, and to be managed.
structure of remuneration recommending any reviewing the of the most senior changes to the Board.
effectiveness of the executives immediately external and internal below Board level.
64 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOVERNANC VERNANCE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Operational Governance Effectiveness The work of the Executive Committee in executing the Groups Board composition strategy is supported by three sub-committees: The Board currently comprises five executive Directors and five non-executive Directors including the Chairman.
Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee is responsible for driving The composition of the Board is kept under review by the operational best practice globally through the application Nominations Committee to ensure that it retains the necessary of Lean business processes.
skills, knowledge and experience to meet the needs of the business.
Group Technology Strategy Board is responsible for development of the Groups technology plan, driving the The Board considers that all of the non-executive Directors, development of appropriate technologies across the Group excluding the Chairman, are independent and is not aware of and the strengthening of external relationships including any relationship or circumstance likely to affect the judgement access to sources of funding.
It also reviews the plans for of any Director.
During 2013 the Company complied with and progress of major technology projects across the Group.
the Code provision which states that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive Governance and Risk Sub-Committee has responsibility directors.
Adam Walker was appointed as Group Finance for monitoring and reviewing matters relating to governance Director Designate on 1 January 2014 and, until William and compliance, risk management and corporate social Seegers retirement from the Board on 25 February 2014, responsibility.
the Board comprised five executive and four independent non-executive Directors.
The Board is content that the In addition, the Chief Executives Council assists in shaping independent judgement of the non-executive Directors was the Groups strategy and operations.
Chaired by the Chief not adversely impacted during this period.
In accordance with Executive, the Councils membership comprises members the Companys articles of association, Adam Walker will retire of the Executive Committee and 18 senior executives from and offer himself for election at the AGM on 1 May 2014.
All divisional leadership teams involved in the day-to-day running other Directors will seek re-election in accordance with the of the businesses.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Biographical details of all Directors are given on pages 60 and 61.
Board and Committee attendance The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2013 was as follows: Remuneration Nominations Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Director 9 meetings 4 meetings 8 meetings 3 meetings Chairman Michael Turner 9 3 Executive Directors Nigel Stein 9 3 Marcus Bryson 9 a Andrew Reynolds Smith 8 William Seeger 9 Non-executive Directors Angus Cockburn 9 4 8 3 Tufan Erginbilgic 9 4 8 3 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 9 4 8 3 Richard Parry-Jones 9 4 8 3 Former non-executive Director b John Sheldrick 3 3 1 1 4 4 1 1 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of retirement from the Board.
a Andrew Reynolds Smith was unable to attend a Board meeting in February due to a supplier meeting with Toyota in Japan.
b John Sheldrick retired from the Board on 2 May 2013. www.
com 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made Induction by the Nominations Committee.
The Committee follows On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive Board approved procedures available on our website which induction pack which includes background information provide a framework for the different types of appointments.
about GKN and its Directors, and details of Board meeting Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria procedures, Directors duties and responsibilities, procedures with due regard to diversity including skills, experience and for dealing in GKN shares and a number of other governancegender.
Non-executive appointees are also required to related issues.
This is supplemented by a briefing with the demonstrate that they have sufficient time to devote to the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the role.
These procedures were used by the Nominations induction of new Directors both into the Group and as Committee in recommending to the Board the appointment to their roles and responsibilities as Directors.
The Director of Adam Walker.
The Committee engaged the services of an meets with the Chief Executive and with relevant senior external search consultant in relation to his appointment: executives to be briefed on the Group strategy and each further information is set out in the Nominations Committee individual business portfolio.
Plant visits and external training, report on page 71. particularly on matters relating to the role of a Director and the role and responsibilities of Board Committees, are arranged Development as appropriate.
This induction process was applied following Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses, the appointment of Angus Cockburn as a non-executive the markets in which they operate and changes to the Director and on the appointment of Adam Walker.
competitive and regulatory environment through briefings to the Board and meetings with senior executives.
Board Performance evaluation visits to Group business locations enable the Directors to meet Each year a performance evaluation of the Board is local management and employees and to update and maintain undertaken.
An external evaluation is conducted every their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups operations.
The evaluation process for 2013 was externally Non-executive Directors are also encouraged to visit Group facilitated by Sheena Crane, an independent consultant operations throughout their tenure to increase their exposure who other than senior executive mentoring has no other to the business.
The evaluation process is described below: Training and development needs are discussed with each Director by the Chairman as part of the individual performance review process.
The suitability of external courses is kept Performance evaluation process under review by the Company Secretary such that any needs identified either through the review process or on an ad hoc basis can be addressed.
Directors attended external training Areas of focus believed to be critical to the Boards courses on a number of matters during the year including effectiveness are agreed by the Chairman in consultation remuneration, audit matters, risk and cyber security.
with the external facilitator and the Company Secretary.
Information and support These include: The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors strategy and process: receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The provision governance: of information to the Board was reviewed during the year risk and risk management systems: as part of the performance evaluation exercise referred to opposite.
monitoring financial and non-financial performance: Board composition and succession planning: To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion executive remuneration: and and to enable informed decision making, briefing papers overall Board and Committee working efficiency.
are prepared and circulated to Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who Extensive one-to-one is tasked with ensuring that the Board is fully briefed on interviews with each Director legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
In addition, Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional advice at the Summary of results presented Companys expense.
to the Board for discussion The Company Secretary also supports the Committee Chairmen by ensuring that agendas are appropriate and address all Key actions for 2014 agreed by the Board matters for which the Committee has specific responsibility.
66 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION No significant issues were identified in relation to the Risk management and internal control effectiveness of the Board and feedback received through The Board is responsible for setting the risk appetite of the the evaluation was largely positive.
In particular, the strategy Group and also retains responsibility for ensuring sound risk process, which includes a two day Board review and an interim management and internal control systems and undertaking review of progress against strategic objectives, was considered an annual review of the effectiveness of these systems.
to be robust facilitating a high quality of discussion.
Risk Certain elements of this responsibility are overseen on its management systems were considered to be effective and the behalf by the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee.
improved level of risk assurance implemented during the year Enterprise risk management was supported.
GKNs enterprise risk management ERM programme facilitates a common, Group-wide approach to the Following discussion of the evaluation results, the Board identification and assessment of risk.
A description of the agreed the following key actions for 2014: process for managing enterprise risk, together with a summary Further enhancements to the strategy process including of risks which could have a material impact on the Group and more detailed consideration of macro and mega trends.
actions in place to mitigate those risks, is given on pages 42 A continued focus on risk appetite in the context of growth to 51. and the expanding global footprint of the Group.
Internal control A greater focus on HR strategy to ensure that this is The Group has in place a number of controls to manage appropriate and effective in building future capabilities risk in respect of financial reporting and the preparation to support the business strategy.
These include: Overall, Board governance and efficiency were considered the implementation of Group accounting policies and to be strong with an appropriately diverse mix of knowledge, procedures, supported by regular bulletins from the skills and experience.
central and divisional finance teams on the application of accounting standards and reporting protocols: The individual performance of the Directors was also evaluated Group and divisional policies governing the maintenance of against a number of assessment areas.
Individual reviews accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial were conducted through one-to-one interviews with the control procedures: Chairman, taking into account feedback received from the external facilitator as part of the Board evaluation process.
a proprietary internal control monitoring system, GKN The Chairman confirms that each Director continues to make a Reporting and Integrity Procedures GRiP, to assess valuable contribution to the Board and devotes sufficient time compliance with key financial controls on monthly, to the role.
An evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by quarterly and annual cycles: the Senior Independent Director taking into account the views monthly operational review meetings which include, of the other Directors.
as necessary, reviews of internal financial reporting issues and financial control monitoring: Committee evaluations were carried out as part of this process: divisional certifications in relation to internal financial details of these evaluations can be found in the relevant controls, accounting judgements and representations Committee report.
of divisional financial results: and Accountability ongoing training and development of financial Financial and business reporting reporting personnel.
When reporting externally the Board aims to present a fair, Other controls in place to minimise risk and ensure the balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups efficient conduct of the Groups business include: position and prospects.
During the year, the Board satisfied the regular review of the GKN Code and policies to ensure itself that appropriate assurance processes are in place to that areas of potential risk are adequately covered.
The Code enable it to state that this annual report, taken as a whole, and policies define the behaviours expected of all GKN is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the employees and are available on the GKN website: information necessary for users to assess the Companys the development and dissemination of training programmes performance, business model and strategy.
A statement to educate employees on relevant topics such as competition of this responsibility, together with additional responsibilities law and anti-bribery laws and reinforce the behaviours of the Directors in respect of the preparation of the annual report, expected of them: is set out on page 101.
The auditors report on pages 102 to 105 clearly defined approval limits and delegated authorities, includes a statement by  LLP about their particularly in relation to treasury transactions and capital reporting responsibilities.
As set out on page 41, the Directors expenditure submissions: and are of the opinion that GKNs business is a going concern.
a whistleblowing hotline which employees can use to report any instances of suspected wrongdoing.
com 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED During the year, risk assurance processes in relation to internal Process for review of effectiveness control were strengthened.
The primary areas in which The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the compliance monitoring is considered to be of the utmost ongoing control processes, and the actions undertaken by importance are: financial reporting, IT controls, legal matters the Committee to discharge this responsibility are described including anti-bribery and corruption, competition law and in the Audit Committees report on pages 72 to 77. export control, human resources issues including The Board receives an annual report from the Audit Committee employment practices and employee disclosure and health, concerning the operation of the systems of internal control safety and the environment.
The risk assurance framework and risk management.
This report is considered by the Board therefore incorporates: in forming its own view on the effectiveness of the systems.
monthly monitoring of compliance with the GRiP financial reporting processes through a self-certification process and The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups peer reviews: systems of internal control and risk management during the period covered by this annual report.
It confirms that the the bi-annual completion of an IT controls checklist systems, which accord with the guidance on internal control confirming adherence to Group IT standards and policies: the revised Turnbull Guidance, have been in place throughout monitoring the completion of mandated training on legal that period and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
topics and the compliance of divisional sales agents and The Board also confirms that no significant failings or consultants committees implemented as part of the Groups weaknesses were identified in relation to the review.
anti-bribery and corruption measures with the relevant Group policy: Relations with investors the annual completion of a human resources controls The Board maintains a dialogue with investors directed checklist confirming compliance with certain Group towards ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
HR standards and procedures: monitoring the completion of internal health and Major shareholders safety audits against target and any themes arising Communication with major institutional shareholders is from these audits: undertaken as part of GKNs investor relations programme, in which non-executive Directors are encouraged to participate.
the annual completion of an assurance process by senior managers in relation to their awareness of the behaviours The Chairman, with support from the Company Secretary, expected under the Groups Code and policies: and meets with institutional shareholders and investor the annual confirmation by senior managers that representatives to discuss matters relating to governance and non-financial controls are in place and operating strategy.
The Board is advised of any issues raised.
The Senior effectively in their businesses.
Independent Director is also available to discuss issues with shareholders where concerns cannot be addressed through The Executive Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk normal channels of communication.
monitors the output from these processes and reports any areas of concern and proposals for improvement to the Richard Parry-Jones, in his capacity as Remuneration Executive Committee for consideration.
Committee Chairman, also engages in discussion with shareholders on matters relating to executive remuneration.
Risk review During 2013, he held meetings with major shareholders to Each year all Group businesses are required formally seek feedback on GKNs remuneration policy and discuss to review their business risks and to report on whether there the impact of changes in the regulatory environment with has been any material breakdown in their internal controls.
This is supplemented by an interim review of business and financial risks at the half year.
Companies also have to confirm The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Head of annually that there have been no material failures to comply Investor Relations meet regularly with major shareholders with statutory and regulatory obligations and that the policies to discuss strategy, financial and operating performance.
which support the GKN Code have been effectively Feedback is sought by the Companys brokers after meetings communicated to all employees.
and presentations to ensure that the Groups strategy and performance are being communicated effectively and to The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, develop further an understanding of shareholder views.
manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the This feedback is included in a twice-yearly report to the Board effects of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
which also provides an update on investor relations activity.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk, recognising The Board receives reports throughout the year on changes that any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute in holdings of substantial shareholders and share price assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, external brokers reports on GKN are circulated to all Directors.
68 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION In late 2013 the Board commissioned an investor perception survey, the results of which were considered by the Board Compliance statement in December 2013.
GKN hosted a number of events for This corporate governance statement, together with institutional investors in 2013, which included site visits to its the Nominations Committee report on pages 70 and 71, facilities in the UK, China and the US in addition to a Capital the Audit Committee report on pages 72 to 77 and the Markets Day which included divisional presentations on Directors remuneration report on pages 78 to 97, provide strategy, growth opportunities and technology innovations.
a description of how the main principles of the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been Communications with shareholders applied within GKN during 2013.
The Code is published Written responses are given to letters or email received from by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on its shareholders and all shareholders receive, or can access website at www.
electronically, copies of the annual and half year reports.
The investor relations section of our website provides further It is the Boards view that, throughout the financial year detail about the Group, including share price information, ended 31 December 2013, GKN was in compliance with webcasts and presentations of annual and half year results, the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
other presentations made to the investment community, and This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, 2.2 1, copies of financial reports.
2.3 1, 2.5, 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the Disclosure Rules Annual General Meeting and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Information regarding the 2014 AGM is given on page 98.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 Shareholders who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions of Rule 7 is shown on pages 98 to 100. during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal AGM business has been completed.
Resolutions for consideration at the AGM are voted on by way of a poll rather than by show of hands to allow the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those cast by proxy.
The results of the poll vote are announced to the London Stock Exchange and published on our website after the meeting.
