NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Chairmans Overview The Nominations Committee plays a key role in ensuring the continued success of the Company through the selection and recommendation of strong candidates for Board appointment.
We keep under review the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the composition of the Board Committees, with any changes recommended to the Board for its consideration.
We also review succession planning, both to the Board and to the senior management grade immediately below Board level.
Members Role Michael Turner Chairman The role of the Nominations Committee is to Angus Cockburn lead the process for identifying, and making Tufan Erginbilgic recommendations to the Board on, candidates Shonaid Jemmett-Page for appointment as Directors and as Company Richard Parry-Jones Secretary, giving full consideration to succession Nigel Stein planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also: In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, makes recommendations to the Board on the the majority of members are independent composition of the Nominations Committee non-executive Directors.
and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees: The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, keeps under review the structure, size and Company Secretary.
composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, John Sheldrick was a member of the ethnicity and gender and the independence Committee until his retirement from the of the non-executive Directors: and Board on 2 May 2013. makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Nominations Committee follows Board-approved procedures in making its recommendations.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibility are available on our website at www.
70 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOVERNANC VERNANCE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Committee met three times in 2013.
Our attendance Diversity at these meetings is set out in the table on page 65.
Our aim is to have an appropriate level of diversity on the Board to reflect the diverse nature of the Companys 2013 Activities operations and support the achievement of its strategic In 2013 our work on executive Director succession focused on objectives.
This includes diversity of industry skills, knowledge the appointment process for the Group Finance Director role and experience in addition to gender and ethnicity.
GKN is a following William Seegers indication that he intended to step global business operating through four divisions and therefore down from the Board and retire from the Group in 2014. diversity generally is an integral part of how we do business: we acknowledge its importance and recognise the benefits The process for identifying a new Group Finance Director that it can bring.
We consider diversity generally when making commenced with the agreement of a detailed brief of the role appointments to the Board: we maintain, however, that our and objective criteria against which candidates would be overriding purpose in any new appointment must always assessed.
This identified the need for a candidate with proven be to select on merit, in fulfilment of our role of ensuring the financial leadership and experience at Board level and a strong continued success of the Company.
Odgers Berndtson was engaged to conduct a search for suitable candidates against Information on diversity within the Group generally can be this criteria.
Odgers Berndtson does not provide any other found on page 57. services to the Group.
Performance evaluation Following interviews with the Chairman, Chief Executive, Audit No changes were considered necessary to the Committees terms Committee Chairman and Group HR Director, Adam Walker was of reference as a result of the Committee evaluation process appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director Designate which took place during the year, and the Committee was on 1 January 2014 and as successor to William Seeger as Group considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2013.
Finance Director with effect from 26 February 2014.
On behalf of the Committee In respect of non-executive Director succession, during the year we considered and recommended to the Board the appointment of Shonaid Jemmett-Page as Chairman of the Audit Committee following John Sheldricks retirement.
We also recommended the extension of her term of office for a further three years.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page was not present MIKE TURNER CBE for either decision.
CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 24 February 2014 www.
