AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Chairmans Overview The Audit Committee plays a fundamental role in monitoring and reviewing certain aspects of management and auditor conduct which could financially impact upon shareholders.
This includes reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements to determine whether the judgements and policies taken by management are appropriate, as well as monitoring the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors.
It also includes oversight of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management.
This report details the activities we undertook during the year in fulfilling our responsibilities.
Members Role Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman The primary role of the Audit Committee is to Angus Cockburn ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and Tufan Erginbilgic audit processes and the maintenance of sound Richard Parry-Jones internal control and risk management systems.
This includes responsibility for monitoring All members are independent non-executive and reviewing: Directors and, in the Boards view, have recent the integrity of the Groups financial statements and relevant financial experience as required and the significant reporting judgements by the Code.
In particular, Shonaid Jemmett-Page contained in them: has held a number of senior finance roles in the appropriateness of the Groups Unilever and is a former partner at KPMG and relationship with the external auditors, former Chief Operating Officer at CDC Group plc, including auditor independence, fees and the UK Governments development finance provision of non-audit services: institution.
Angus Cockburn is currently the the effectiveness of the external audit process, Chief Financial Officer of Aggreko plc and making recommendations to the Board on the previously held senior finance positions within appointment of the external auditors: international organisations.
the activities and effectiveness of the internal The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, audit function Corporate Audit : Company Secretary.
the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: and John Sheldrick was a member and Chairman the Groups policies and practices of the Committee until his retirement from the concerning business conduct and ethics, Board on 2 May 2013. including whistleblowing.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibility are available on our website at www.
72 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Committee met four times in 2013, with meetings timed UK Corporate Governance Code and the Groups approach to coincide with the financial and reporting cycles of the to IT controls including cyber security.
Our attendance at these meetings is set out in the Financial Reporting table on page 65.
During the year, we: In order to maintain effective communication between considered information presented by management on all relevant parties, we invited the Group Chairman, Chief significant accounting judgements and policies adopted Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Corporate Audit, in respect of the Companys half year and annual financial the external audit engagement partner and other members statements and agreed their appropriateness: of senior management to attend Committee meetings examined key points of disclosure and presentation as necessary.
Members of the Committee met separately to ensure the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the at the start of each meeting to discuss matters in the absence financial statements: of any invitees.
At the conclusion of meetings, the Head of Corporate Audit and the audit engagement partner of discussed with PwC its audit reports which highlighted  LLP PwC were each given the key accounting matters and significant judgements in respect opportunity to discuss matters without executive management of each set of financial statements: being present.
Both the Head of Corporate Audit and the reviewed documentation prepared to support the going external auditors have direct access to me should they wish concern judgement given on page 41: to raise any concerns outside formal Committee meetings.
considered the accounting judgements and methodologies applied in determining the opening balance sheet following 2013 Activities the acquisition of the aero engine division of AB Volvo Our activities in 2013 principally related to financial reporting, GKN Aerospace Engine Systems : and the external audit, internal control and risk management.
In addition, we considered other specific matters such as considered matters raised by regulators in respect changes to our terms of reference as a result of the revised of accounting for post-employment obligations.
Significant issues In reviewing the matters set out in relation to the financial statements, we identified and debated the following significant issues.
Area of focus Committee action GKN Aerospace Engine Systems We scrutinised a number of key underlying assumptions and sensitivities in order to assess the Accounting appropriateness of judgements taken by management in determining a fair value opening balance sheet see Note 1 to the financial for the 2012 and 2013 financial statements.
Our discussions focused primarily on the valuation of statements operating and non-operating intangible assets and the reassessment of liabilities acquired with the business, with factors such as useful economic life, discount rates, cash flows and volume assumptions The Group acquired GKN Aerospace taken into account.
The transaction resulted in the KPMG were engaged as external advisers to assist in determining the fair value of the non-operating application of complex accounting intangible assets on acquisition.
All assumptions were reviewed and challenged where necessary by the judgements, assumptions and external auditors, with their findings reported to us for consideration.
Following a review of all supporting methodologies in order to establish internal and external documentation, we confirmed that we were satisfied with the judgements put to us a fair value opening balance sheet.
Their appropriateness was kept under review throughout the year.
Matters raised by regulators in Under the pension partnership arrangement, the UK pension schemes nominal partnership interest relation to post-employment entitles it to a distribution from the income of the partnership of 30 million per annum for 20 years, obligations subject to discretion exercisable by the Group in certain circumstances.
The valuation of this interest see Note 24 a to the financial deemed a scheme plan asset under IAS 19 and the corresponding non-controlling interest have been statements the subject of discussions with the regulator.
In 2010 the Group agreed an At a meeting held in February 2013, the Committee debated extensively the accounting for the asset-backed pension partnership arrangement in light of concerns raised.
Detailed advice was considered from external advisers arrangement with the Trustee of on the legal, valuation and accounting aspects of the arrangement.
It was concluded that the proposed the UK pension scheme to help 2012 accounting treatment for the partnership activities, which was consistent with that used for address the UK pension funding the partnership in 2010 and 2011, remained appropriate.
However, in part to address points raised deficit.
The Group has been in by the Conduct Committee of the FRC and with a view to simplifying the accounting without impacting discussions with the Conduct the underlying economics, we put forward, and the Board agreed, a recommendation to review the Committee of the Financial partnership agreement with the Trustee.
Subsequent amendments to the partnership agreement were Reporting Council FRC with made which resulted in the partnership income interests no longer being recognised as a plan asset with regard to its accounting for this effect from May 2013.
Updates on discussions with the Conduct Committee of the FRC were considered arrangement since August 2012. at Committee meetings throughout the year and as Chairman of the Committee I held frequent informal meetings with both management and advisers to debate relevant issues.
Discussions with the Conduct Committee of the FRC were concluded formally in early 2014.
Detailed current year disclosures on this matter can be found in Note 24 to the financial statements.
com 73 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus Committee action Development costs on Aerospace Impairment reviews of development costs against associated future cash flows are compiled programmes on a six-monthly basis and circulated to the Committee.
On each occasion we reviewed the valuation of the development costs and the assumptions made, including programme risk Assessing the likelihood of future factors and the most recent external forecasts of aircraft programme demand.
Actions and recoverability of development costs factors likely to influence levels of impairment were noted and the view of the external auditors associated with Aerospace programmes was sought in relation to the appropriateness of the approach and outcome.
Particular focus involves various judgements and was placed on the A350 programme due to the value of the development costs associated with assumptions.
These relate to factors such that programme.
Taking into account the documentation presented and the assessment of the as anticipated volumes, exchange rates, external auditors, we were satisfied with the approach and judgements taken.
method of amortisation, and potential cash flows and the discount rates thereon.
Development costs for large programmes can be significant: the largest value relates to the A350 programme, the development costs for which totalled 191 million including capital expenditure and capitalised interest at 31 December 2013.
Additionally, we reviewed the following areas due to their materiality and or the application of judgement.
However, we considered them to be relatively stable in nature in comparison to prior years and therefore we did not classify them as significant issues in the context of the 2013 financial statements.
Impairment testing The Committee evaluated a paper from management on the methodology of the impairment assessment which remained consistent with prior years and the results of that assessment.
A formal annual impairment review was Assumptions were reviewed, including discount rates, business risk factors and cash flow conducted by management.
This included projections based on the most recent budget and strategic reviews.
Actions and factors likely analysis of impairment triggers across all to influence levels of impairment were noted and the view of the external auditor was sought operating subsidiaries followed by a detailed in relation to the appropriateness of the approach and outcome.
Taking into account the review of specific business units where documentation presented, we were satisfied with the approach and judgements taken.
a risk of impairment had been noted.
Key judgements and assumptions were required to be made in calculating the values of the business units.
Post-employment obligations Assumptions were prepared by external actuaries and reviewed and approved by management see Note 24 to the financial statements and the external auditors, ensuring that they were aligned to prevailing economic indicators.
Changes in assumptions were then summarised for the Committee and, in relation to the Determining the current value of the Groups Groups UK pension schemes, included an increase in discount rates and inflation and revised future pension obligations requires a number mortality assumptions in order to take account of increased life expectancy.
These assumptions relate principally to life expectancy, discount rates on future cash flows and rates of inflation and future salary increases.
Provisions for potential liabilities To determine whether the level of provisioning in the balance sheet was reasonable, we see Note 21 to the financial statements examined reports from management containing details of provisions made and released during the year and updates on the Groups actual or potential material litigation.
We also invited The Group makes provisions where PwCs comments on this area and concluded that the approach taken in respect of provisioning it is probable that settlement of liabilities continued to be appropriate.
will result in a cash outflow in respect of contractual obligations, warranties and litigation.
Key judgements are made in assessing an appropriate level of provisioning.
74 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Non-audit services External audit In order to safeguard independence further, we monitor In 2013, we: compliance with the policy for the provision of non-audit approved PwCs audit plan and terms of engagement: services.
The external auditors are generally excluded from conducted our annual review of the independence and consultancy work and are not engaged by GKN for other objectivity of PwC: non-audit work unless there are compelling reasons to do noted the non-audit fees payable to PwC, having regard so, for example where PwC can draw upon significant historic to the policy on the provision of non-audit services: knowledge gained through the audit process.
Any proposal determined that PwC remained effective in its role to use the external auditors for non-audit work with a value as external auditor: and above 20,000 must be submitted to the Group Finance Director for approval prior to appointment.
Depending on the recommended to the Board that PwC be appointed nature of the service, the Group Finance Director will seek my as external auditor for a further year.
prior authorisation as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2013 can be found in to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external note 4 a to the financial statements.
We also approve the terms of engagement and incurred during 2013 amounted to 1.1 million which fees of the external auditors, ensuring that they have related principally to tax compliance services 0.6 million.
appropriate audit plans in place and that an appropriate Tax advisory services and other services totalled relationship is maintained between the Group and the 0.2 million each and audit related assurance services external auditors.
Non-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees totalled 24%.
All such activities remained Audit plan within the policy approved by the Board.
PwCs presentation of its audit plan set out the scope and objectives of the audit together with an overview of the Effectiveness and reappointment planned approach, an assessment of the Groups risks and Our review of the performance of PwC and the effectiveness of controls and proposed areas of audit focus.
PwC worked with the external audit process included consideration of responses Corporate Audit and management to identify areas which from interviews conducted with members of the Committee, indicated an increased risk of control breakdown.
These areas executive Directors and senior management.
All interviewees were then targeted proactively to ensure they received the were asked to rate PwCs effectiveness in a number of areas appropriate amount of attention during the audit.
including independence and objectivity, audit strategy and Independence planning, conduct and communication, audit findings and As a Committee we are responsible for the development, feedback, and expertise and resourcing.
The results confirmed implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on that both PwC and its audit process were considered to external audit which are designed to maintain the objectivity be effective and that a good working relationship was and independence of the external auditors.
These policies supplemented by a sufficient amount of challenge.
Minor regulate the appointment by the Group of former employees improvements, including proactive communication of of PwC and set out the approach to be taken when using the emerging topics and new industry regulatory guidance, external auditors for non-audit work.
were suggested to and accepted by PwC.
Our annual review of the independence of the external PwC has been the Companys external auditor since its auditors included: formation in 1998, although several predecessor organisations of PwC have held office for some time prior to that date.
Whilst receiving confirmation from PwC that they remained the Company has not formally tendered the audit in recent independent and objective within the context of applicable years, the Committee decided to conduct a comprehensive professional standards: review of the effectiveness and performance of the external considering the tenure of the audit engagement partner, auditors following the rotation of the audit partner in 2011. who is required to rotate every five years in line with As part of this exercise, the new audit partner submitted a ethical standards: tender proposal for future audits covering matters such as ensuring that management confirmed compliance with the independence, objectivity, resourcing and value for money.
Groups policies on the employment of former employees A benchmarking exercise based on external data and a review of PwC and the use of PwC for non-audit work: and of external documents on the four major audit firms issued considering Corporate Audits annual review of PwCs by regulatory bodies were also conducted.
As a result of the objectivity, independence and effectiveness and of the review, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate audit process.
to recommend PwCs reappointment for a further year.
As a result of this review, we concluded that PwC remained In determining whether to recommend the auditors for appropriately independent in the role of external auditors.
reappointment in 2014, we took into consideration the tenure www.
com 75 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED of the audit partner in post for three years, the matters We received regular updates on progress in respect of the reviewed as part of the tender proposal in 2011 and the results development of the Groups risk management framework of the effectiveness review detailed above.
Taking these and the implementation of additional assurance processes elements into account, we concluded that it was appropriate in order to strengthen the framework.
Further information to recommend to the Board PwCs reappointment as the on the Groups systems of internal control and risk Companys auditors for a further year.
management is given on pages 67 and 68.
Together with an internal control review undertaken by Corporate Audit The Committee has recommended, and the Board has and an informal review of our internal control environment accepted, a proposal to put the audit contract out to carried out by PwC, we evaluated the systems of internal competitive tender.
We reported last year that we would put control and risk management and reported to the Board the contract out to tender no later than the time of the rotation on our evaluation in order that it could form a view on the of the current audit partner which is scheduled for 2016. effectiveness of those systems.
The Boards statement Taking into account the requirements in the Code and a delay on internal control can be found on page 68. in the implementation of the Competition Commissions proposals in respect of mandatory audit tenders pending Internal audit the finalisation of EU audit reforms, the precise timing of this During the year we: exercise will be kept under review.
approved the 2014 Corporate Audit programme, including the proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of resources: and of external auditors.
reviewed the effectiveness of Corporate Audit.
Internal control and risk management In relation to consideration of the Corporate Audit programme In fulfilling our remit we: for the forthcoming year, we reviewed the proposed audit reviewed the results of audits undertaken by Corporate Audit: approach, coverage and allocation of resource.
We also received reports on control issues of significance to received progress updates against the 2013 audit programme the Group: throughout the year.
reviewed the status of the Groups internal financial control We reviewed the terms of reference and effectiveness of monitoring system: Corporate Audit, taking into account the views of Directors reported to the Board on our evaluation of the operation and senior management on matters such as independence, of the Groups systems of internal control and risk proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and management, informed by reports from Corporate Audit methodology.
The review confirmed that the Corporate and PwC: and Audit function was independent and objective and oversaw the development of the Groups risk assurance remained an effective element of the Groups corporate framework and the implementation of additional governance framework.
Whistleblowing The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing To support the Groups Employee Disclosure Procedures the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk Policy available on our website, GKN operates a Groupmanagement systems, the activities and effectiveness of wide international whistleblowing hotline.
Run by an Corporate Audit, and the Groups policies and practices external and independent third party, the hotline enables relating to business conduct and ethics.
employees to make on an anonymous basis if preferred confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters reported are investigated We review Corporate Audits quarterly reports throughout and escalated to the Audit Committee as appropriate, the year which detail any internal control issues and identify and statistics on the volume and general nature of all any themes arising in relation to audit recommendations.
disclosures made are reported to the Committee on We consider the adequacy of managements response an annual basis.
to any matters raised and the implementation of recommendations made.
During the year, we received feedback on the preliminary post-acquisition audits of GKN Aerospace Engine Systems which were undertaken in order to gain an understanding of the design of its internal control framework and identify areas of strength and areas for improvement with regard to key risks.
Whilst such audits are not formally rated, the results confirmed the existence of an adequate control framework.
76 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Other matters During the year we: approved changes to the Committees terms of reference in line with the Code: and reviewed the Groups approach to IT controls including cyber security.
Having considered changes to the Code, we agreed to expand our terms of reference to include reports to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the Companys financial statements, having regard to matters communicated to us in the external auditors report, and to report to the Board on how we discharged our responsibilities generally.
This was in effect a formalisation of existing practice as, in my role as Committee Chairman, I provide the Board with a verbal update of matters considered by the Committee, including significant financial reporting issues, following each meeting.
Following consideration by both the Board and Audit Committee, it was decided that the Board would retain responsibility for deciding whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for users to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
It was agreed that this responsibility rests more appropriately with the Board as a whole.
The relevant statement in relation to the annual report can be found on page 101.
The Groups approach to IT controls was discussed in the context of the increased global focus being placed on cyber security and the inclusion of information systems resilience as a key risk in the annual report.
We will continue to monitor this area through our oversight of the risk assurance framework.
Advice provided to the Committee The Committee has independent access to the services of Corporate Audit and to the external auditors, and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary in the performance of its duties.
Performance evaluation No changes were considered necessary to the Committees terms of reference as a result of the Committee evaluation process which took place during the year and the Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2013.
On behalf of the Committee SHONAID JEMMETT-PAGE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 24 February 2014 www.
