Governance & remuneration Corporate governance Corporate governance Letter to shareholders The new style Remuneration Report on Dear Shareholder pages 96 to 126 now comprises: As Chairman of the Board, I am committed a C hairmans statement in which Tom to ensuring that GSK operates at the highest fide Swaan, the Remuneration Committee standards of corporate governance.
We Chairman, reflects on the Committees believe our governance structure underpins decisions during the year and outlines the our ability to deliver the Groups strategy to Committees agenda for 2014: grow a diversified business, deliver more products of value and simplify the operating a n Annual report on remuneration which model.
sets out how the Committee has implemented GSKs remuneration policy New Governance & remuneration during the year, and the way in which we reporting changes propose to operate GSKs policy in 2014: In light of the new provisions in the Financial and Reporting Councils update to the UK a R emuneration policy report which sets Corporate Governance Code the updated out GSKs proposed remuneration policy, Code, and the commencement of the new to apply for three years from the end of our Remuneration Reporting Regulations, we Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2014. have reviewed our governance and corporate reporting arrangements.
The updated Code Annual governance meetings is available at www.
During the year, I was pleased to Chair governance meetings with shareholders in With respect to the principal areas of change the UK and the US alongside Judy Lewent, set out in the updated Code, we have taken Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee, and the following actions: Sir Deryck Maughan, the Senior Independent I n last years Annual Report we disclosed, Director SID.
At these meetings, I was ahead of time, our diversity policy and able to discuss a broad range of governance measurable diversity targets.
I am pleased matters with shareholders, including Board to report that, in relation to gender and management dynamics, Director diversity, we have maintained our female induction, training and development representation on the Board at 33% since arrangements, and succession planning, July 2012, which places GSK firmly in the whilst imparting details of the important top ten of the FTSE 100 in terms of female work undertaken by the Nominations and board member representation.
E nhancements have been made to the Judy provided an overview of the role Audit & Risk Committee report ARC and activities of the Audit & Risk Committee report on pages 89 to 92.
These and Sir Deryck shared his insights and enhancements include discussion of the perspectives on our Board and governance significant issues relating to the financial structure with shareholders, since taking statements that the Committee considered over the role of SID from Sir Robert Wilson and addressed during the year.
The ARC in May 2013. report also highlights to shareholders the The following pages outline our approach to key areas of focus of the Committee during governance.
Building on the work undertaken the year.
in last years Annual Report to restructure The new Remuneration Reporting the Corporate governance report, this year, Regulations came into effect for the in addition to consolidating several of the 2013 financial reporting year.
We were statutory disclosures into the Shareholder a participating member of the GC100 Information section of the Annual Report on and Investor Group that helped to develop pages 242 to 250, our risk disclosures that guidance aimed at assisting UK quoted have previously appeared in the Corporate companies to understand the practical governance report have been incorporated implementation of these new Regulations.
into an expanded risk management section The introduction of these Regulations on pages 18 to 19. have also provided us with the opportunity I commend this report to all of our to take a fresh look at how we present the shareholders.
reporting of our Directors remuneration arrangements.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman 26 February 2014 82 GSK Annual Report 2013
