Governance & remuneration Corporate governance Corporate governance framework The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust platform to realise the Groups strategy to Grow, Deliver and Simplify.
Our internal control and risk management arrangements, which are described on pages 88, and 18 to 19 are an integral part of GSKs governance framework.
Board Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 11 independent Non-Executive Directors Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Officer Corporate Responsibility Finance Corporate Administration Corporate Executive Committee Committee & Transactions Committee Team Board Committees In order for the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established by the Board.
A summary of the role of each Board Committee is set out in the table below.
The full terms of reference of each Committee are available on our website and reports on the membership of, and work undertaken by, the Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nominations and Corporate Responsibility Committees during 2013 are given on pages 89 to 95 and 107 to 108.
Corporate Corporate Administration Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Finance & Transactions Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and recommends: recommends: approves: approves: External issues that Financial and internal reporting processes, To the Board the Structure, size and have the potential for The Annual Report Matters in connection integrity of the overall executive composition of the serious impact upon and Form 20-F, the with the administration financial statements, remuneration policy Board and the GSKs business convening of the of the Groups system of internal appointment of AGM, the preliminary business and certain To the Board the Oversight of: controls, identification members to the and quarterly results corporate transactions appropriate fees for Reputation and management Board, its Committees announcements the Chairman management of risks and external and the CET Approves: Determines: and internal audit Monitors: Certain major processes Terms of service and Succession to the licensing and capital remuneration of Proposes: Board and CET transactions and Executive Directors Appointment of changes to the and other members external auditors Groups Investment of the CET Instrument and Responsible for: Reviews and Counterparty Limits Initiating an audit approves: tender, the selection The Directors of external auditors, Remuneration Report their remuneration and oversight of their work 86 GSK Annual Report 2013 The Boards diversity policy is set out on page 94 and for details of Board induction, business awareness and training the gender diversity of GSKs global workforce, see page 55 of The induction programme for Hans Wijers presented on page 84 Responsible business.
illustrates the typical induction format for a new Director.
To ensure that Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain a Time allocation greater insight and understanding of the business, they are invited Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which sets to attend internal management meetings, including meetings of the out the terms and conditions of his or her directorship.
CET, the Research & Development Executive, the Product Executive, Sir Christopher and the Non-Executive Directors are expected to the Scientific Review Board, the Portfolio Investment Board, the devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance of their Commercial Accountability Board and the Risk Oversight and duties.
No precise timings are given as this will vary from year to year Compliance Council.
They also meet employees informally during depending on the companys activities.
Directors are expected to visits to the Groups operations and at receptions held around Board attend all Board meetings, and any additional meetings as required.
They are also expected to attend meetings of the Committees of The Board is kept up-to-date on legal, regulatory and governance which they are members, the Audit & Risk Committee meetings matters through regular papers from the Company Secretary and which are open to all Directors in furtherance of their risk and presentations by internal and external advisers.
compliance responsibilities and strategy sessions, and to make visits During the year, the Board was briefed on various developments in to operational sites.
In addition, Board members are invited to attend narrative and executive remuneration reporting, going concern, risk at least one CET meeting a year and may attend certain Research & management, board diversity, the impact of the UK and EU reviews Development Executive and other operational meetings.
of the audit market, market abuse and insider trading, shareholder engagement and other developments in corporate governance, 2013 Board and Chairmans evaluation including the requirements of the September 2012 update to the UK The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and the Corporate Governance Code.
performance of its Committees every year which is facilitated The Board members undertook specific refresher training on, and externally every third year.
The progress of the Board against the under the provisions of, the Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA outcomes of the 2012 evaluation, which was internally facilitated by in 2013 which was delivered at the Audit & Risk Committee.
Each the previous SID, Sir Robert Wilson, is reported on page 83.
The new Board member will, as part of his or her induction programme, action points arising from the 2013 evaluation of the Board facilitated receive comprehensive training on the CIA.
Hans Wijers has taken by the current SID, Sir Deryck Maughan, are disclosed on page 84. part in such a training session in 2013 as part of his induction.
The feedback from the Board evaluation is summarised below.
Sir Christopher also meets with each Director annually on a one-toThe Board is viewed by all Board members as effective.
The one basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and development pharmaceutical industry is undergoing fundamental change and the requirements.
Board has worked hard to understand the opportunities and risks this poses to our strategy, and is supportive of the direction Board composition articulated by the management team.
Debates are open and robust We seek to build an effective and complementary Board, whose and everyone is encouraged to contribute.
Corporate responsibility, capability is appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic ethics and compliance are taken seriously, and there is a good positioning of our business.
The process for Board appointments is led balance between the core values of the company and the interests by the Nominations Committee and is described on pages 93 to 94. of shareholders.
We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board The openness of Sir Andrew and the management team to Board and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so input is viewed by the Board members as exemplary.
The ability for that we can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors, Directors to attend management meetings and visit sites enhances while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which the Boards competence.
more recent appointees bring to the Boards deliberations.
The Board is well balanced in terms of diversity of experiences, Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries however, the desirability of adding an experienced Director from the and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, medical UK listed environment is acknowledged.
research and academia, and retail and financial services, and have The Board Committees have strong and engaged leaders, significant appropriate experience of complex organisations with global reach.
workloads to discharge, and play an important role in the companys Some have considerable experience of the pharmaceutical industry governance.
and the more recent appointees bring a new approach to the Group, and to Board discussions.
Board diversity We are committed to the diversity of our boardroom and we are similarly committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at all levels of the organisation.
The diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce are promoted throughout GSK.
We believe that a key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises a range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender and independence, with individuals that are prepared to challenge each other and work as a team.
This needs to be backed up by a diversity of personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound judgement, honesty and courage.
