During the search process, broad selection criteria are generally used Nominations Committee Report which focus on achieving a balance between continental European, British, American and emerging markets experience, and having individuals with expertise and capabilities developed in various sectors and specialities.
MWM and Egon Zhender, who specialise in the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors, were engaged to ensure that the widest possible pool of candidates was available to select from.
MWM and Egon Zhender only provide recruitment consultancy services to the Committee.
Dossiers of potential Non-Executive appointees were considered by the Committee and candidates were shortlisted for interview on merit and against objective criteria, after assessing their relevant qualifications and time commitments.
After interviewing suitable candidates, the Committee was pleased to recommend to the Board Hans Wijers as a potential Non-Executive Director.
He was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2013.
The Board considered that this appointment achieved the aim of appointing a Sir Christopher Gent candidate who has experience of running global companies.
Nominations Committee Chairman It is currently intended that Sir Christopher Gent will step down as Chairman at the end of 2015 and the Committee has made progress Membership in the search for his successor.
The membership of the Nominations Committee the Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, Board and committee changes is set out below: The Boards proactive approach to the refreshment of the Board has resulted in orderly changes in the composition of the Board and its Attendance at Committees on the recommendation of the Committee which are set full meetings Members Committee member since during 2013 out below.
Sir Christopher Gent Sir Crispin Davis did not stand for re-election at the AGM in May Chairman since after nine years of service and Sir Robert Wilson will not stand for 1 January 2005 9 December 2004 5 5 re-election at the AGM in 2014 after ten years of service.
Given the Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 5 5 number of recent appointments, and that a further long-standing Board member is to step down from the Board by May 2014, Sir Sir Crispin Davis 9 July 2009 2 2 Deryck Maughan agreed to stand for re-election by shareholders for Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 4 5 up to a further two years before stepping down from the Board at the Tom fide Swaan 1 October 2012 4 5 2016 AGM.
The Chairman and Sir Deryck are conducting the search Sir Robert Wilson 28 March 2008 5 5 for the Chairmans successor and Sir Deryck will also provide Sir Crispin Davis retired from the Board on 1 May 2013. continuity and balance to the composition of the Board, given his significant knowledge of GSKs business affairs.
Sir Deryck has Tom fide Swaan and Sir Deryck Maughan were each unable to attend brought his own style to the role of Senior Independent Director since one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
he succeeded Sir Robert Wilson after the closure of the AGM in May Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: 2013, and the Board has confirmed that he continues to demonstrate the characteristics of independence in carrying out his role on the Regular Attends Board.
Attendee attendee as required Chief Executive Officer Tom fide Swaan succeeded Sir Crispin Davis as Chairman of the Head of Human Resources Remuneration Committee and Judy Lewent succeeded Tom fide Company Secretary Secretary to the Swaan as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee on 1 January 2013.
Tom fide Swaan has been a member of the Remuneration Committee Committee since May 2009 and continues to be a member of the Appropriate external advisers Audit & Risk Committee.
Judy has been a member of the Audit & Risk Work of the Committee during 2013 Committee since April 2011.
Dr Stephanie Burns was appointed to the Remuneration Committee Main responsibilities with effect from 1 May 2013.
Jing Ulrich was appointed to the Audit The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 86.
& Risk Committee also with effect from 1 May 2013, on the same date that both Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Sir Robert Wilson Appointment of new Non-Executive Directors stepped down from the Audit & Risk Committee.
Sir Robert Wilson During 2013, the Committees particular area of focus was the search was appointed as a member of the Corporate Responsibility for new Non-Executive Directors as the phased refreshment of the Committee with effect from 1 May 2013, and Hans Wijers was Board has progressed.
appointed as a member of the Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees with effect from 10 October 2013.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee evaluates Lynn Elsenhans was appointed as a member of the Audit & Risk the particular skills, knowledge, independence, experience and Committee with effect from 1 January 2014. diversity, including gender, that would benefit and balance the Board most appropriately for each appointment.
