Senior Independent Director Leadership and effectiveness Sir Deryck Maughan has been our Senior Independent Director SID since 1 May 2013, when he succeeded Sir Robert Wilson, who had The Board been our SID since 20 May 2009.
Sir Derycks role is to act as a The Board met six times in 2013, with each member attending as sounding board for Sir Christopher and a trusted intermediary for the follows: other Directors.
He is also available as an additional point of contact Number of Number of for shareholders.
His responsibilities include the evaluation of the meetings held whilst a meetings performance of the Chairman and, at the request of the Chairman, Board member attended evaluating the Board and its Committees in collaboration with the Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 6 Committee Chairmen in years when the evaluation is conducted Sir Andrew Witty 6 6 6 internally.
The SID also works with the Chairman on the process for Simon Dingemans 6 6 6 the selection of a new Chairman as appropriate, and he chairs the Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6 6 Nominations Committee when agreeing the recommendation to the Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 6 Board for the Chairmans successor.
Dr Stephanie Burns 6 6 6 Sir Deryck maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns Stacey Cartwright 6 6 6 of our major shareholders through meetings with them and through Sir Crispin Davis 3 3 3 reports from our Investor Relations team.
Lynn Elsenhans 6 6 6 CEO Judy Lewent 6 6 6 Sir Andrew is responsible for the management of the business, Sir Deryck Maughan 6 5 6 developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and Dr Daniel Podolsky 6 6 6 approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
He is Tom fide Swaan 6 5 6 assisted by other members of the Corporate Executive Team CET, Jing Ulrich 6 6 6 which meets at least 11 times a year and more often if required.
4 3 4 Hans Wijers Short biographies of the members of the CET are given under Our Sir Robert Wilson 6 6 6 Corporate Executive Team on pages 80 and 81.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a quorate basis on three occasions to consider corporate transactions, Company Secretary including authorising the disposal of the Lucozade and Ribena The Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, is a solicitor and a Fellow brands, and the China investigations.
of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Victoria S ir Crispin Davis retired from the Board on 1 May 2013. was formerly Deputy Secretary and Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
She has acted as Secretary to the Board and all the H ans Wijers was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with Boards Committees since her appointment as Company Secretary effect from 1 April 2013. on 1 January 2011.
Sir Deryck Maughan, Tom fide Swaan and Hans Wijers were each The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in designing unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior business the induction for new Directors, in the delivery of the corporate commitments.
governance agenda, in particular in the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board and Committee meetings, and in ensuring that The Chairman information is made available to Board members on a timely basis.
Sir Christopher Gents role as Chairman is to lead and manage the The Company Secretary advises the Directors on Board procedures business of the Board and to provide direction and focus, while and corporate governance matters, and arranges for the Nonensuring that there is a clear structure for the effective operation of Executive Directors to attend internal management meetings and the Board and its Committees.
He sets the agenda for Board make visits to our business operations to enhance their knowledge discussions to promote effective and constructive debate and to and understanding of the business.
support a sound decision-making process, ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about the During 2013, the Company Secretary responded to various companys performance.
consultations on the evolving global governance and corporate reporting agenda on behalf of the Group and engaged with Sir Christopher works closely with Sir Andrew Witty to ensure that shareholders to ensure they fully understood GSKs governance the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are effectively and remuneration arrangements.
implemented and provides support and advice to Sir Andrew, while respecting his executive responsibility for managing the Group.
The Independence division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO has The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be been agreed by the Board and is set out in the governance section of independent in character and judgement and free from any business our website.
or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise Sir Christopher is responsible to shareholders for the performance of of their judgement.
The Chairman satisfied the independence test on the Group and leads discussions and the development of relations his appointment to the Board.
The independence of those Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for over six years was subjected to a rigorous review.
Non-Executive Directors In particular, the Board considered that Sir Deryck Maughan and Sir The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element Robert Wilson, who have served on the Board for over nine years, on the Board.
They are well placed to constructively challenge and continued to demonstrate the characteristics of independence, such support management and to shape proposals on strategy and as challenging management and taking part in rigorous debate, whilst succession planning.
Between them, they bring independent possessing outstanding knowledge of the companys business affairs.
judgement and a breadth of skills and experience gained at the most senior levels of international business operations and academia.
