Ropes and Gray report directly to GSKs General Counsel and, Audit & Risk Committee Report as Chair of the Committee, I have unfettered access to the law firm partners who are leading this independent investigation.
In addition, time continues to be set aside at Committee meetings to consider this matter.
Finally, I was delighted to welcome Jing Ulrich and Lynn Elsenhans as new members of the Committee as part of the ongoing refreshment of the composition of the Committee, and I am pleased with the contribution they have already made to the Committees deliberations.
Judy Lewent Audit & Risk Committee Chairman Membership and attendance The membership of the Committee, together with appointment dates Dear Shareholder and attendance at meetings during 2013, is set out below: During 2013, the Committees agenda included a review of the integrity of our financial results, the appropriateness of the system of Attendance at full internal controls, our business operations across the world and their meetings during Members Committee member since 2013 management of risk, as well as focusing consideration on new Judy Lewent Chairman from emerging risks.
1 January 2013 1 April 2011 6 6 The Committees Report, which includes descriptions of the work Professor Sir Roy Anderson 20 May 2009 3 3 undertaken by the Committee during the year, has been modified Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 6 6 to reflect new Audit Committee responsibilities and reporting Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 0 0 requirements under the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 4 6 Code and Guidance for Audit Committees issued by the Financial Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 6 6 Reporting Council FRC in September 2012.
In particular, the Tom fide Swaan 1 January 2006 5 6 Committee Report discusses the significant issues that the Jing Ulrich 1 May 2013 3 3 Committee considered and addressed in relation to the financial Sir Robert Wilson 12 December 2003 3 3 statements and outlines how the Committee has assisted the Board of Directors in making their statement on page 128, confirming that P rofessor Sir Roy Anderson and Sir Robert Wilson both stood down GSKs 2013 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and as members of the Committee on 1 May 2013. understandable.
Tom fide Swaan was unable to attend one and Sir Deryck Maughan Since the start of 2013, after the Committee and the Board was unable to attend two Committee meetings due to prior business considered the division between their work in terms of risk commitments.
management, it was agreed that all Board members would be invited In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met to attend the entire Committee meetings.
The Board continued to on a quorate basis on four occasions to review or approve matters cover those risks specifically reserved for its review to ensure associated with the Annual Report and Accounts and Form 20-F, continuity and consistency of coverage and oversight.
and preliminary and quarterly results announcements.
I have completed my first full year as the Chair of the Committee and, All Board members are invited to attend the Committee meetings in that time, I have enhanced my knowledge and understanding of the and other attendees include: Group through meetings with a range of senior executives to discuss issues brought to the Committee by management, by attending CET, Regular Attends Attendee attendee as required Risk Oversight Compliance Council and other management meetings, as well as connecting with the network of Compliance Officers, on Chairman whom the Group relies to oversee and drive compliance within GSK.
CEO CFO As a matter of routine, I also held pre-Committee briefing meeting General Counsel sessions with management and the external auditors and generally made Financial Controller myself available if any Director, senior executive, or the external audit Head of Audit & Assurance partner wished to discuss any particular matters with me in more detail.
Company Secretary Secretary to the I was pleased to attend, alongside the Chairman and the Senior Committee Independent Director, my first annual governance meetings that were Chairman, Research & Development held with major UK shareholders in December 2013, and major US Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance shareholders in January 2014, at which I had the opportunity to discuss Chief Medical Officer areas of mutual importance in relation to the work of the Committee.
Chief Product Quality Officer Events during the year have brought evidence that vigilance and External auditor continuous improvements to our internal control and risk management processes and systems must remain a high priority for the Committee.
The allegations of fraudulent behaviour within our business in China are currently under investigation by the authorities in the country.
Separately, we have commissioned an independent review by the international law firm, Ropes and Gray, into what has happened in China.
GSK Annual Report 2013 89 Governance & remuneration Corporate governance In accordance with the UK Code, the Board has determined that Stacey Cartwright, Judy Lewent and Tom fide Swaan all have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has also agreed that Stacey, Judy and Tom have the appropriate qualifications and background to be audit committee financial experts as defined by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that each is independent within the meaning of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In addition, Judy Lewent, Sir Deryck Maughan and Tom fide Swaan are members of the Remuneration Committee, which allows them to provide input on the Committees review of the Groups performance and oversight on any risk factors relevant to remuneration matters.
Work undertaken by the Committee during 2013 The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured programme of activities agreed in conjunction with the Committee Chair, management and the external auditors at the start of the financial year.
This programme comprised standing items that the Committee was required to consider at each meeting and other matters timed to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle and other business events.
The Committee considered, discussed and made decisions in relation to a number of matters during the year, the most significant of which are set out below.
Global internal control & Governance and other Financial reporting compliance External auditors Risk matters Reviewed integrity of draft Reviewed global assurance Reviewed audit non-audit Considered emerging risks Confirmed compliance with financial statements, and business unit expenditure during 2012 UK Corporate Governance Reviewed risk management appropriateness of assurance reports Code framework compliance Considered auditors report accounting policies and Reviewed litigation reports Discussed annual Endorsed review of risks and regarding their findings on going concern assumption evaluation exercise of 2012 annual results approved addition of new Reviewed internal control Committee, agreed action emerging risks to register for Reviewed and framework Performed evidence-based plan to further improve recommended approval of monitoring Confirmed compliance with assessment of external operation of Committee 2012 Annual Report and Reviewed status of clinical Sarbanes-Oxley Act auditors and effectiveness and reviewed terms of Form 20-F and quarterly study transparency, ABAC of 2012 external audit reference results announcements Reviewed audit & and information protection process Considered new annual assurance work during Considered approval risks Considered qualifications, report disclosure 2012 and agreed plan for process for confirming and expertise and Reviewed progress of requirements, including 2013 recommending that 2013 external and independent independence of auditors new style audit reports Annual Report is fair, Reviewed Corporate ABAC investigations in Recommended rebalanced and Received briefing on Integrity Agreement CIA relation to China at a number appointment and approval understandable Group tax and treasury quarterly compliance of meetings at AGM for Committee to arrangements reports and undertook CIA agree auditors training Reviewed annual progress of To reinforce Committee remuneration global enterprise resource independence, the planning system Committee met both Approved 2013 audit plan implementation collectively and separately and audit fee proposal and with external auditors, set performance Head of Audit & Assurance expectations for auditors and Head of Governance, Considered initial results of Ethics and Assurance 2013 audit without members of management being present Reviewed and agreed pre-approval of budget for auditors to provide non-audit services for 2014 In respect of Financial reporting activities, the Committee reviews and recommends for approval all financial results announcements.
In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the annual financial results contained in the 2013 Annual Report, the Committee reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results.
The Committee reviewed papers prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues and the judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
90 GSK Annual Report 2013 The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out in the following table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate.
In addition, the Committee and the external auditors have discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 129 to 131.
Significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern basis for the The Committee considered the outcome of managements half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net debt preparation of the financial positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group.
Following a review of the risk statements and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including The Committee reviewed managements approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for returns and rebates RAR accruals customer returns and rebates.
The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was 1.2 billion at 31 December 2013 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been made and concurred with managements judgements on the amounts involved.
A fuller description of the process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual necessary is set out in Critical accounting policies on page 67.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external recent government investigations in legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates concerning the ongoing government investigations China to the extent that they can be in China.
Management outlined the levels of provision considered necessary in respect of potential adverse determined litigation outcomes and also those areas, including in respect of the China investigation, where it was not yet possible to determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount.
At 31 December 2013, the provision for legal matters was 0.6 billion, as set out in Note 29 to the financial statements, Other provisions.
Provisions for tax issues The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with managements judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required.
At 31 December 2013, the Groups balance sheet included a tax payable liability of 1.5 billion.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed managements process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible assets for potential impairment.
The Committee accepted managements judgements on the intangible assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of 739 million in 2013.
See Note 19 to the financial statements, Other intangible assets for more details.
Provisions for pension and other The Committee reviewed the significant assumptions adopted by management for the valuations of post-employment obligations obligations for the Groups largest pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes in the UK and the US, together with the resultant net obligation amounts, as calculated by external actuaries.
The Groups net deficit at 31 December 2013 amounted to 1.9 billion as set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, Pensions and other post-employment benefits.
Effectiveness of external auditors adhere to all independence policies, including GSKs policies, ISA UK&I 220 and SEC requirements In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors, deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance against reflects local risks and materiality criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, at the co-ordinate appropriately with GSKs Audit & Assurance beginning of each years audit.
function As part of this process, the Committee considers feedback on the provide consistency of advice at all levels.
prior years external audit gathered through a client satisfaction survey facilitated by the auditors client service review team, which is Audit partner rotation independent of the engagement team that undertook the audit work.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit engagement The survey seeks feedback from the financial management team at partner every five years.
The previous audit partner stepped down corporate and business unit level.
It covers four key areas the from his position after the audit of GSKs financial statements for robustness of the audit process, the quality of the delivery, the quality 2012 had been concluded.
of the people and the quality of the service.
Having reviewed the After a robust review process by the Committee, together with feedback and noted any areas of improvement to be implemented the involvement of the CEO and CFO, to select his replacement, on the following years audit, provided the Committee is satisfied the Committee approved the appointment of a new audit with the effectiveness of the external audit process, it will recommend engagement partner with effect from the financial year the re-appointment of the auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the current criteria for judging the effectiveness of the external auditors are set out below: Audit firm tendering The Committee keeps under review the ongoing legislative proposals deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit on audit tendering and rotation from the EU and the Competition provide accurate, up-to-date knowledge of technical issues on Commission, and will implement them when they become final.
These a timely basis proposals have effectively superseded the FRCs comply-or-explain serve as an industry resource, communicating best practice and approach that underpins the UK Code which would otherwise have industry trends in reporting applied to the company for the first time this year.
The FRC plans to withdraw this tendering provision during 2014.
GSK Annual Report 2013 91 Governance & remuneration Corporate governance  LLP have remained in place as auditors Audit non audit service three year comparison graph m since the Groups inception in December 2000 and the audit contract has not been put out to tender in that period.
Their performance has been reviewed annually by the Committee since that time.
As part of its 20 review of the implications of the end of the previous audit partners five 19.1 year term, the Committee considered the appropriateness of putting 17.3 17.3 in place a tender process.
This included assessing the FRCs most 16 recent guidance on the subject, the level of change currently underway inside the Group and improvements to the auditors services, including fee levels proposed by the auditors.
The review concluded that a 12 tender was not in the companys interests at this time and the Committee consequently approved the appointment of the new audit 8 partner.
However, the Committee agreed that this issue should be reviewed regularly as part of the annual appointment process.
6.4 5.9 5.8 Non-audit services 4 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the external auditors for the provision of certain services such as legal, 0 actuarial, internal audit outsourcing, or financial information systems 2011 2012 2013 design.
Where the external auditors are permitted to provide Audit and assurance services non-audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval All other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and by the Committee for such services.
The total fees for non-audit work treasury-related services cannot exceed 50% of the audit fee, except in special circumstances Code of Conduct and reporting lines where there would be clear advantage in the companys auditors We also have a number of well established policies, including a undertaking such additional work.
These services may include audit, Code of Conduct, which is available on the governance section of audit-related, tax and other services.
Pre-approval is detailed as to our website, and confidential reporting lines for the reporting and the particular service or categories of service, and is subject to a investigation of unlawful conduct.
An updated version of the Code specific budget.
All non-audit services over 50,000 are put out to of Conduct was published in January 2014. competitive tender with other financial service providers, in line with the Groups procurement process, unless the skills and experience Fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the external auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit One of the key compliance requirements of a groups financial service under consideration, in which case a request for proposal is statements is for the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced submitted by the relevant CET member to the CFO for approval.
The coordination and review of Group-wide contributions into the Annual Report and Accounts follows a well Provision of non-audit services established and documented process, which is performed in parallel There are guidelines which set out the Groups policy on engaging with the formal process undertaken by the external auditors.
the external auditors to provide non-audit services, which include: The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by ascertaining that the skills and experience of the external auditors management in the preparation of GSKs 2013 Annual Report and make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services Accounts to ensure that it met the requirements of the UK Code.
ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity This enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or GSKs 2013 Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and compromised, and understandable.
ensuring that the fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual Committee evaluation audit fee.
The Committees annual evaluation was carried out by the Committee The external auditors and management report regularly to the Chairman and concluded that the Committee continued to operate Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance effectively, with full participation from all members and executive with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed.
The management attendees and members commented favourably on Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a case-bya very good level of access to the Committee Chairman.
Fees paid to the companys auditor and its associates In terms of enhancements to the Committees deliberations, it was are set out below.
Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial agreed that a heightened focus on time management and attention statements, Operating profit.
on key risk areas during the meetings would assist the Committees Where possible, other accounting firms are engaged to undertake overall effectiveness.
