Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Corporate governance report Board governance Non-Executive Directors Overview The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a broad range of skills and experience to the Board which assists in The Board believes that the Company has throughout their roles in formulating the Companys strategy and in the year complied with all relevant provisions contained providing constructive challenge to executive management.
in the Code except with regard to the following which is Except for Peter Coates, due to his executive explained below: responsibilities in 2013, all of them are regarded by the 1. the Company has not implemented an external board Company as Independent Non-Executive Directors within evaluation: the meaning of independent as defined in the Code and free from any business or other relationship which could 2. the Company has not since its AGM on 16 May 2013 materially interfere with the exercise of their independent had a Senior Independent Director as Dr Hayward is judgment.
This view has been taken having regard to all currently occupying the position of Interim Chairman: facts including the following: 3. during a short hiatus period following its AGM, the Company did not have fully constituted Board William Macaulay is Chairman and CEO of First Reserve Committees.
Affiliates of FR hold 160,909,810 shares in the Company, around 1.2% of its issued share capital.
The governance section sets out how Glencore has applied the main principles of the Code in a manner which Independence issues arise where a director has been enables shareholders to evaluate how these principles appointed, directly or indirectly, to represent a shareholder.
This has not been the case, however, with Mr Macaulay.
Mr Macaulay is one of the world's leading figures in The disclosures in this report relate to our responsibilities natural resources' private equity, with an exceptional track for preparing the Annual Report including compliance record of investment in the industry.
The desire of the with the Code to the extent required, our report on the Company for Mr Macaulay to join the Board therefore effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal was predicated on its desire to benefit from Mr Macaulay's control systems, the functioning of our Audit Committee excellent skill set and judgement.
and our going concern statement.
The fact that he is the chairman and CEO of FR, whose Details of the Companys significant shareholders, Affiliates in turn have a shareholding in the Company was voting rights, Directors powers and rules concerning not a relevant consideration in respect of his Board the appointment and replacement of Directors are either membership: he was not asked to join the Board as FR's contained in this report or the Directors report.
Details representative and has not acted as a representative of FR of the changes in the composition of the Board during 2013 or any other third party interest as a director.
This matter are set out below.
From 1 January 2014 Glencores Board also has to be considered in the light of management has comprised six Non-Executive Directors including the shareholdings in the Company.
Including the CEO, there Chairman and one Executive Director.
A list of the current are several senior managers within the Group who hold Directors, with their brief biographical details and other larger stakes than FR.
Accordingly, the risk of Mr Macaulay significant commitments, is provided in the previous pages.
seeking to exercise greater influence from his position on the Board through FRs shareholding is not considered to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer be theoretically possible nor borne out in practice.
Glencore has established a clear division between the respective responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman John Mack was until 2011 chairman of Morgan Stanley, and the Chief Executive Officer which are set out in a which provides advisory and financial services to the schedule of responsibilities which has been approved by the Group.
However, Mr Mack ceased to be CEO of Morgan Board.
This schedule was most recently reviewed as part of Stanley in 2009, Morgan Stanleys relationship with the the Xstrata acquisition process.
While the Non-Executive Company is led from the UK office and Mr Mack was not Chairman is responsible for leading the Boards discussions involved in the delivery of these services.
and decision-making, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading Glencores operating performance and day-to-day management.
This, coupled with the schedule of reserved matters described below, ensures that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 80 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Mr Mack is recognised for his long track record in Immediately following the AGM on 16 May 2013, due investment banking and for being a robust and to the significant number of departures from the Board, independently minded individual.
In addition to his for a short period, the Board committees were not fully Board membership, he has been appointed during the constituted.
However, prior to the next meetings of year as chairman of the Remuneration Committee where the committees following the AGM, further Board his wide ranging experience as a CEO of major banks appointments were made as noted above which allowed has brought effective leadership and clarity to the the committees to be fully reconstituted in time for their Committees discussions.
It was therefore concluded that there was no additional risk associated with this temporary Accordingly, we believe that applying a common sense non-compliance.
construction to the provisions of the Code, it is reasonable to conclude that each of Mr Macaulay and Mr Mack is Board meetings independent in accordance with its terms.
The Board has approved a formal schedule which sets out those matters which are reserved for its decision making Board Composition in 2013 alone such as strategy, the annual budget and material As a result of the Xstrata acquisition the composition of acquisitions and disposals.
the Board changed during the year The Board held five scheduled meetings during the year Simon Murray, Peter Coates and Li Ning resigned as together with several additional meetings as required.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors respectively on All of the Boards scheduled meetings were held at the 2 May 2013.
Steven Kalmin also left the Board on 2 May Companys headquarters in Baar, Switzerland.
2013 but remains employed as Chief Financial Officer.
On that date Sir John Bond was appointed Chairman and The Board and its Committees have standing agenda Peter Hooley, Ian Strachan, Con Fauconnier and Sir Steve items to cover their proposed business at their scheduled Robson joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman seeks to ensure that the very Each of them ceased to be Directors on 16 May 2013. significant work of the Committees feeds into, and On this date Anthony Hayward became Interim Chairman benefits as to feedback from, the full Board.
The Board and on 12 June 2013 Peter Grauer and John Mack were and Committee meetings also benefit from presentations appointed as Independent Non-Executive Directors and by a senior executives and some technical and investor Peter Coates was appointed as an Executive Director.
As stated above Mr Coates ceased to be an Executive The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2013 but remains on the Board Directors without the Executive Directors present, and at as a Non-Executive Director.
least once a year the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman present.
Board Committees The following Committees are in place to assist the Board in exercising its functions: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Health, Safety, Environmental and Communities HSEC.
A report from each Committee is set out later in the Corporate Governance Report.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee meetings are reviewed by the Board.
These terms of reference are available at www.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 81 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Corporate governance report Attendance during the year for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings is given in the table below: Board of 5 Audit of 4 Nomination of 4 Remuneration of 4 HSEC of 5 1 Simon Murray 11 1 Steven Kalmin 1 1 Li Ning 1 2 Peter Coates 41 4 Leonhard Fischer 544 Anthony Hayward 542 4 William Macaulay 544 Ivan Glasenberg 51 5 3 Sir John Bond 3 Sir Steve Robson 3 Peter Hooley 1 3 Ian Strachan 3 Con Fauconnier 4 John Mack 333 4 Peter Grauer 323 1 Stood down as required upon completion of the Xstrata acquisition on 2 May 2013.
2 Not on the Board on 16 May when one set of meetings took place.
3 Were Directors from 2 May to 16 May 2013.
No meetings took place during their tenure other than an Audit Committee meeting which Mr Hooley attended as specified.
4 Attended all meetings since appointment on 12 June 2013.
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of Appointment and re-election of Directors appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the For the two sets of board appointments during 2013, Remuneration Report.
No other contract with the Company neither advertising nor search agents were used.
First, for or any subsidiary undertaking of the Company in which the appointments of the legacy Xstrata directors on 2 May any Director was materially interested subsisted during referred to under Board Composition in 2013 above, because or at the end of the financial year.
these appointments were agreed by the boards of the Company and Xstrata as part of the agreement for the Information and professional development Xstrata acquisition.
Secondly, for the appointments in It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive June 2013 of John Mack, Peter Grauer and Peter Coates.
Directors 1 attain a good knowledge of the Company and Following the 2013 AGM on 16 May, the Board was its business and 2 allocate sufficient time to Glencore to reduced to four members.
These three suitable, high quality discharge their responsibilities effectively.
New Directors candidates were already known to the Board and the Board receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the wished to move quickly to reconstitute itself to a suitable Board, including meetings with senior management.
The Board calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide range of topics.
Directors are also given Anthony Hayward, Ivan Glasenberg, Leonhard Fischer the opportunity to visit the Groups offices and industrial and William Macaulay as continuing members of the assets and discuss aspects of the business with employees, Board, will be offering themselves for re-election at the 2014 and regularly meet the heads of the Groups main AGM.
John Mack, Peter Grauer and Peter Coates, having departments and other senior executives.
As well as been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, will be internal briefings, Directors attend appropriate external offering themselves for election at the 2014 AGM.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 82 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information All Directors have access to the advice and services of the reviewed monthly by management.
As part of the monthly Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for reporting process, a reforecast of the current year ensuring the Board procedures are complied with, and projections is performed.
To ensure consistency of have access to independent and professional advice at the reporting, the Group has a global consolidation system Companys expense, where they judge this to be necessary as well as a common accounting policies and procedures to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
Management monitors the publication of new reporting standards and work closely with our external Board performance evaluation auditors in evaluating their impact, if any.
We have reviewed the interests declared by the Directors Risk management and internal control which could conflict with those of the Company and we are satisfied that the Boards powers to authorise potential The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by conflicts is operating effectively.
establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks that are considered Given that the Board has been reconstituted during the significant by the Group in accordance with the revised year and that an external evaluation process should be Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by the overseen by a permanent chairman, the Board concluded Financial Reporting Council.
This process has been in place that an external evaluation process should not be carried for the period under review and up to the date of approval out in respect of 2013.
A full internal evaluation, however, of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is has been carried out, the results of which raised no material designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can issues.
The Board believes that whilst it has not undergone only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance an external evaluation, an internal evaluation was a against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors suitable mitigating action.
Its findings were that the Board confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the and its Committees appear to be discharging their risk management and internal control systems.
This review functions appropriately subject to some suggestions as to excludes associates of the Group as Glencore does not have process improvements which are being implemented.
the ability to dictate or modify the internal controls of these entities.
This report describes how the effectiveness of the The Company is expected to appoint a permanent Groups structure of internal controls including financial, Chairman during 2014.
Following this appointment, operational and compliance controls and risk management the Board will put in place an external board evaluation systems is reviewed.
1 Approach to risk management Remuneration Effective risk management is crucial in helping the Group Remuneration is covered in the Directors Remuneration achieve its objectives of preserving its overall financial report which follows this section.
It includes a description strength for the benefit of all shareholders and other of the work of the Remuneration Committee.
stakeholders and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern while generating sustainable long term Accountability and audit profitability.
Spanning the organisational structure, Glencores disciplined approach to risk management and Financial reporting control originates with strategic responsibility in the hands of the Board, which also retains operational authority on The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review matters exceeding agreed thresholds of materiality.
cycle, which includes a detailed annual planning budgeting The Board retains final authority for assessing and process where business units prepare budgets for overall approving the Groups overall risk appetite and sets consolidation and approval by the Board.
The Group uses overall limits which are subject for review annually.
a large number of performance indicators to measure Through delegation to the Audit Committee for oversight both operational and financial activity in the business.
and to senior management for day-to-day operational Depending on the measure, these are reported and issues, an effective risk management governance apparatus reviewed on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In addition, has been established for the Group.
management in the business receive weekly and monthly reports of indicators which are the basis of regular The Audit Committee retains responsibility for reviewing operational meetings, where corrective action is taken if the overall effectiveness of Glencores risk management necessary.
At a Group level a well-developed management approach and systems.
accounts pack, including income statement, balance sheet, cash flow statement as well as key ratios is prepared and Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 83 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Corporate governance report The CEO, as the fulcrum of commercial oversight and 2 Risk assessment and control tools control, drives functional risk management policy, Glencores finance and risk professionals, working in supported as required by the CFO and Chief Risk Officer coordination with the Groups marketing departments, CRO, with data and reporting from the central risk and monitor and report daily to management on the financial credit team and the key functional units.
Within the risks and exposures Glencore is facing.
The Group enlarged company, the importance of the contribution of employs Value-at-Risk VaR as its primary tool to monitor multiple functional units towards the risk control process its commodity price risk exposure within marketing, has been enhanced, in particular the accounting and asset assessing open commodity trading positions which are teams within Group Finance and Internal Audit whereby subject to price risk.
The credit quality of its counterparties the risks within the asset portfolio are profiled, whilst is monitored by the Group through internal reviews and the central risk management team focusses primarily a credit scoring process which includes, where available, on the marketing business.
Consequently the process of public credit ratings.
The Group makes active and evaluating the Companys risk portfolio involves the widespread use of credit enhancement through the use analysis of inputs from multiple teams and ultimately of products such as letters of credit and credit insurance this resides as previously, with the CEO.
to help manage and mitigate credit risk exposures.
At the heart of this regime is the process of challenge VaR is a risk measurement technique which Glencore uses that takes place between the CEO and the Heads of to monitor and limit its primary market exposure derived Department, helping to set risk appetite consistent with from its physical marketing exposures and related proven track records of successful judgement in each derivative positions.
VaR estimates the potential loss in department.
The oversight process seeks to ensure that an value of open positions that could occur as a result of appropriate balance is maintained between the levels of adverse market movements over a defined time horizon, risk assumed and expected return, employing commodity given a specific level of confidence.
The methodology is specific expert knowledge which is crucial in judging risk a statistically defined, probability based approach that in physical commodity markets.
The enlarged Group takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk retains a strong culture and tradition around attitudes to diversification benefits by recognising offsetting risk that supplement the still considerable shareholding positions and correlations between commodities and alignments of key staff.
These attributes are continuously markets.
In this way, risks can be compared across all nurtured and strongly sought to be maintained.
The markets and commodities and risk exposures can be internal audit and compliance teams also play key roles aggregated to derive a single risk value.
in managing Group operational risk and verifying process controls.
The Board has maintained a one day, 95% VaR limit of $100 million which is subject to review and approval on Glencore recognises the need for continuous focus on this an annual basis.
The purpose of this Group limit is to assist key area in the context of both the evolution of its business senior management in controlling the Groups overall risks, and the unpredictable and volatile global economic marketing risk profile.
During 2013 Glencores average VaR environment.
The Group continues to maintain and expand was approximately $35 million, slightly below 2012s level.
the resources and information systems used in risk management, whilst also adopting and following policies Glencores VaR computation covers the key base metals, which are intended to mitigate and manage market price coal, oil and the main risks in the Agricultural products and credit risks.
department grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton.
It assesses open priced positions and those which are subject to price risk, but due to a lack of liquid terminal markets, Glencore does not extend its VaR calculation to a number of business lines where price transparency is less dependable.
Glencore reports VaR across the Group and also by commodity department, as well as at a variety of more detailed levels.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 84 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information It is Glencores policy to actively make use of hedging applied to the role, capabilities and areas of focus of the strategies to manage unwanted commodity price risk Internal Audit function in preparation for the Xstrata associated with its marketing businesses, however there acquisition.
In addition, the Audit Committee pays remains the possibility that the hedging instruments particular regard to the effectiveness and timeliness of chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of managements responses to the findings of the Internal the underlying price risk.
The hedging instruments Audit function.
available to the business units may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting In June 2013 Ernst & Young performed an external quality in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure.
assessment of the Internal Audit function.
This evaluation Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point was considered by the Audit Committee.
The function for Glencores commodity department teams who actively scored well in each of the areas of review.
The assessment engage in the management of them.
included an acknowledgement of many commendable areas of internal audit performance and the obvious culture VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses of strong commitment and support by management and in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor the Audit Committee.
Additionally there was evidence of does Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative strong relationships across the business and stakeholder of future market movements or representative of any actual feedback was positive with respect to their business impact on its future results.
VaR should always be viewed understanding and contributions made to the Companys in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical control environment.
The overall conclusion was that the data as a proxy for estimating future events, market Internal Audit activity is effective and is aligned with illiquidity risks and risks associated with longer time the Institute of Internal Auditors' International Standards horizons as well as tail risks.
The Group recognises these for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.
limitations and so complements and refines its risk analysis through the use of stress and scenario analysis.
Glencore Relationships with shareholders regularly backtests its VaR to establish adequacy of The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the accuracy and to facilitate analysis of breaks.
Group in communications with shareholders and believes that being transparent in describing how we see the market Within its industrial business units the Group defines its and the prospects for the business is extremely important.
key profit and cash-flow drivers at the start of each planning period and assesses material sensitivities around We communicate with shareholders in a number of the underlying assumptions.
Whilst it is generally not the different ways.
The formal reporting of our full and half policy of the Group to employ systematic hedging of year results and interim management statements are a forward commodity production, but rather to focus combination of releases, presentations, group calls and relentlessly on cost competitiveness across its asset base, one to one meetings.
The full and half year reporting is it may from time to time adopt specific industrial asset or followed by investor meetings in a variety of locations business unit hedging strategies designed to mitigate risk, where we have institutional shareholders.
We also regularly in particular when a market price environment is meet with existing and prospective shareholders to update compelling.
These strategies may include the use of or to introduce them to the Company and periodically options and other derivative instruments.
arrange visits to parts of the business to give analysts and major shareholders a better understanding of how we Internal Audit manage our operations.
These visits and meetings are Glencore has a dedicated Internal Audit function reporting principally undertaken by the CEO, CFO and Head of directly to the Audit Committee.
The role of Internal Audit Investor Relations and increasingly, an array of business is to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk heads.
In addition, many major shareholders have meetings management, control, and governance processes.
with the Chairman and appropriate senior personnel of the Group including other Non-Executive Directors, the Internal Audit reviews areas of potential risk within the Company Secretary and Head of Sustainability.
business and suggests control solutions to mitigate exposures identified.
The Audit Committee considers and approves the risk based audit plan, areas of audit focus and resources and is regularly updated on audits performed and relevant findings, as well as the progress on implementing the actions arising.
Particular focus was Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 85 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Corporate governance report In addition, due to the importance of post-Xstrata Audit Committee report acquisition matters: Chairman 1. an investor day was held in September to provide a full Leonhard Fischer briefing on acquisition update, synergies, business plans and approach to capital allocation: Other members 2. a presentation and investor road show was held in Peter Grauer November to provide a detailed account of the William Macaulay Companys sustainability policies and plans.
Mr Fischer and Mr Macaulay served throughout the year.
The Board receives regular updates from the Companys Mr Coates served on the Committee until 2 May 2013 when Head of Investor Relations and on the views of he stepped down from the Board.
He was replaced by shareholders through a briefing, which is a standing Peter Hooley on that date.
On 16 May 2013, Peter Hooley agenda item for all Board meetings, which is supplemented ceased to be a director and therefore ceased to be a by input from the Chairman, CEO and CFO.
In addition, member of the Committee.
Following his appointment the Senior Independent Director, once permanently in to the Board on 12 June 2013, Mr Grauer was appointed place, will again be available to meet shareholders if they to the Committee.
All are considered to be independent wish to raise issues separately from the arrangements Non-Executive Directors and deemed to be financially as described above.
The position of Senior Independent literate by virtue of their business experience.
Additionally Director is currently vacant while Dr Hayward has all Committee members are considered by the Board to assumed the position of Interim Chairman.
This issue have recent and relevant financial experience and have has been mitigated by the arrangement that other Noncompetence in accounting.
The Committee met four times Executive Directors are available for communications during the year and all the Committee members attended with shareholders in situations where a shareholder all of the scheduled meetings which occurred during their would usually wish to consult with the Senior tenure.
John Burton is Secretary to the Committee.
Role and responsibilities The Companys next AGM is due to be held in Zug on The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist 20 May 2014.
Full details of the meeting will be set out the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to in the Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders financial reporting, external and internal audit, risk in April.
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged management and controls.
This includes: to vote by proxy as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
All documents relating to the AGM will be available on monitoring and reviewing the Groups financial and the Companys website at: www.
accounting policies and practices: monitoring the integrity of the annual and half yearly financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments relating to them: monitoring matters that influence or could distort the presentation of accounts and key figures: overseeing the Groups procedures for ensuring that the Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: considering the scope of the annual external audit and the work undertaken by external auditors: considering the reappointment of the external auditors: Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 86 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information making recommendations to the Board for a resolution Main activities to be put to the shareholders for their approval on the During the year, the Committees principal work included appointment of the external auditors and to authorise the the following: Board to fix the remuneration and terms of engagement reviewing and agreeing the preparation and scope of the of the external auditors: year-end reporting process: reviewing and monitoring the independence of the reviewing and agreeing the global audit plan, scope external auditor and the provision of additional services and fees of the audit work to be undertaken by the by it: external auditors: reviewing Glencores internal financial, operational and reviewing and evaluating the Groups procedures for compliance controls and internal controls and risk ensuring that the Annual Report and accounts, taken management systems: as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencores reviewing and discussing the full year audited, and internal audit function: and half-year unaudited, financial statements with overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud management and the external auditors: and handling allegations from whistleblowers.
discussing various material accounting issues with management and the external auditors, particularly Governance processes those involving key judgements and estimates primarily The Audit Committee usually invites the CEO, CFO, Group as outlined in further detail below: Financial Controller, CRO and Head of Internal Audit and the lead partner from the external auditors to attend each considering applicable regulatory changes to reporting meeting.
Other members of management may attend as obligations: and when required.
The Committee also holds private evaluating the effectiveness of the external auditors: sessions with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit without members of management being present.
reviewing the operation of the Companys policy for the The Committee has adopted guidelines allowing non-audit provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: services to be contracted with the external auditors on the reviewing material engagements with the auditors in basis as set out below.
respect of non-audit services: considering the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: reviewing the Internal Audit Departments annual audit plan and the performance assessment of the Internal Audit function: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencores internal controls including monitoring the preparation and execution of the financial reporting integration required for the acquisitions of Viterra and Xstrata: and reviewing the policies detecting, reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches of business conduct and whistle-blowing procedures.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 87 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Corporate governance report Significant issues related to the financial statements 3 Marketing exposures The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting The Committee monitors the risk management policies policies have been adopted and whether management have and processes in place in respect of the Groups marketing made appropriate estimates and judgements.
They also operations, as explained in more detail under Risk review external auditors reports outlining audit work management and internal control above.
As part of this performed and conclusions reached in respect of key assessment, we reviewed managements VaR reports judgements, as well as identifying any issues in respect and held regular discussions with the CRO to understand of these.
the nature of open positions, with a focus on those that are deemed to be higher risk.
Our external auditors have During the year, the Committee has placed considerable reported to us on the work they have performed in respect focus on these key matters: of accounting for financial instruments, marketing inventories and the associated complexities, including 1 Acquisitions determination of fair value measurements and classification of contracts relating to marketing activities.
Accounting for acquisitions involves significant management judgements and estimates.
The acquisition 4 Performance and credit risk of Xstrata on 2 May 2013 was a large scale and complex transaction, materially impacting the financial statements.
The Groups global operations expose it to performance The Committee considered the process undertaken by and credit risk, which result in the requirement to make management to determine the fair value of the acquired judgments around recoverability of receivables, loans assets and liabilities, paying close attention to estimates and trade advances.
As part of an ongoing review, the made by management in respect of values of development Committee has satisfied itself that for material continuing projects and operating assets, as well as provisions exposures, processes followed to evaluate recoverability of recorded for restoration, rehabilitation and such exposures are sufficiently robust and that amounts decommissioning costs, legal exposures, taxation recorded in the financial statements are reasonable.
and onerous and unfavourable contracts.
5 Taxation In addition, the Committee reviewed managements Due to its global reach, including operating in higher reports outlining the basis for the allocation of the goodwill risk, less developed jurisdictions, the Group is subject to arising on acquisition to cash generating units, as well as enhanced complexity and uncertainty in accounting for the subsequent day one impairment recorded in respect income taxes, particularly the evaluation of tax exposures of the goodwill allocated to the acquired industrial assets.
and recoverability of deferred tax assets.
The Committee has held extensive discussions with management to The Committee also reviewed managements integration understand the potential tax exposures globally and plans, with particular focus on internal controls and the key judgements taken in determining the positions management oversight.
recorded, including status of communications with local tax authorities.
2 Impairment The Committee considered whether the carrying value The Committee is satisfied that the judgments made by of goodwill and industrial assets may be impaired as a management are reasonable and that financial statement result of the volatile market environment.
We reviewed disclosures included in the accounts are appropriate.
managements report outlining the basis for the key assumptions used in calculating the recoverable value Internal Audit for the Groups assets.
Future performance assumptions The Committee monitored the internal audit function.
used are derived from the Board approved business plan.
In addition to the general matters described under As part of the process for approval of this plan, the Internal Audit above, it analysed in particular the changes Committee considered the feasibility of strategic plans implemented in the function following the Xstrata underpinning future performance expectations, and acquisition given the scale of the transaction and the whether they are achievable.
The Committee discussed significant growth in the Groups industrial assets which with the external auditors their work in respect of arose as a result.
impairment review, which was a key area of audit focus for them.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 88 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information External audit the extent of the auditors resources and technical capability to deliver a robust and timely audit Deloitte has been the auditor of the listed entity formerly including consideration of the qualifications and called Glencore International plc since its incorporation expertise of the team: in 2011.
Following the acquisition of Xstrata in May 2013, a decision was made to continue with Deloitte as the auditors performance and progress against the agreed auditor of the combined Group.
This resulted in a change audit plan, including communication of changes to the of auditor at most of the legacy Xstrata businesses.
The plan and identified risks: and most recent audit lead engagement partner rotation took the proven stability that is gained from the continued place for the current year ended 31 December 2013 when engagement of Deloitte following the major changes Mr Matt Sheerin replaced Mr David Quinlin.
The Board to the Group arising from the acquisitions of Viterra and the Audit Committee acknowledge the importance of, and Xstrata.
and greater investor scrutiny in respect of, a tendering policy for the appointment of external auditors, noting in The Committee assesses the quality and effectiveness of the particular the changes to the provisions of the Code and external audit process on an annual basis in conjunction the recent findings of the UK Competition Commission.
with the senior management team.
Key areas of focus However, given the significant changes resulting from include consideration of the quality and robustness of the the Xstrata and Viterra acquisitions, it is not considered audit, identification of and response to areas of risk and appropriate to consider any change of external auditor the experience and expertise of the audit team, including at the current time.
The Committee will further develop its framework for the formal assessment of the external The Groups policy on non-audit services provided by the auditor during 2014. external auditor is designed to ensure the external auditor independence and objectivity is safeguarded.
A specified The Committee has determined that it is satisfied that the wide range of services may not be provided as they have work of Deloitte LLP is effective, the scope is appropriate the potential to impair the external auditors independence and significant judgements have been challenged robustly Excluded Services.
The Audit Committees approval is by the lead partner and team.
Additionally there are no required for 1 any Excluded Service 2 any other contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of external engagement where either i the fee is contingent, ii the auditor.
The Committees views on tendering are set out fee may exceed $500,000, or iii where the fees for all nonunder External Audit above.
The Committee has therefore audit work may exceed $15 million.
Subject to these recommended to the Board that a proposal be put to restrictions and other safeguards in the policy, the external shareholders at the 2014 AGM for the reappointment of auditors may be permitted to provide certain non-audit Deloitte LLP as external auditor.
services when it is concluded that they are the most appropriate supplier due to efficiency and status as a Leonhard Fischer leading firm for those specific services.
For 2013, fees paid Chairman of the Audit Committee to the external auditors were US$49m, the total non-audit 17 March 2014 fees of which were US$13m: further details are contained in note 29 to the financial statements.
Reappointment of external auditor The Committee has evaluated the effectiveness of the external auditor and as part of this assessment, has considered: the steps taken by the auditors to ensure their objectivity and independence: the deep knowledge of the Company which enhances Deloittes ability to perform: competence when handling key accounting and audit judgements and ability to communicate these to the Committee and management: Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 89 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Corporate governance report Nomination Committee Main activities The Committee focused on three main tasks during this Chairman year.
The first was the search for and consideration of a Anthony Hayward proposed new Non-Executive Chairman.
Considerable work has been carried out reflecting the importance Other members of this appointment.
John Mack Secondly, a search process for a female Non-Executive Peter Grauer Director has been initiated, for which a number of leading female business leaders have been identified.
Until the acquisition of Xstrata took place in May 2013, the Committee comprised Anthony Hayward, Simon Murray, Thirdly, we considered the composition of the Board Ivan Glasenberg and Li Ning.
The latter three stepped following the appointments of Messrs Mack, Grauer down from the Committee at that time and were replaced and Coates.
It was agreed that the Board needed to be with Sir John Bond and Sir Steve Robson.
On 16 May, augmented by the above two appointments and that Sir John Bond and Sir Steve Robson ceased to be Directors.
the resulting Board of nine was likely to be satisfactory, Messrs Mack and Grauer were appointed to the subject to ongoing review.
Committee, following their appointment as Directors.
The Committee now comprises all independent It is part of the Committees policy when making new Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met four times Board appointments to consider the importance of during the year and its members on the relevant date diversity on the Board, including gender.
This is considered attended all of the meetings.
in conjunction with experience specific to the business of the Company, the necessary qualifications required, whilst Roles and responsibilities ensuring no conflict of interest is present.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to assist the Board with succession planning and with the selection External consultancy Egon Zehnder has been retained for process for the new appointment of new Directors, both search purposes.
Executive and Non-Executive, including the Chairman.
This involves: Changes after year end evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and On 13 February 2014 Anthony Hayward resigned from experience of the Board and identifying the capabilities the Committee.
Peter Grauer was appointed as chairman required for a particular appointment: of the Committee in his place and Leonhard Fischer joined the Committee.
overseeing the search process: and evaluating succession planning.
Peter Grauer Chairman of the Nomination Committee 17 March 2014 Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 90 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Health, Safety, Environment & Communities Main activities HSEC Committee During the year, the Committee: Chairman reviewed the current corporate practice framework for Peter Coates the Group, approved ongoing changes and reviewed their implementation and practice: Other members reviewed and oversaw the Groups sustainability report Ivan Glasenberg for 2012: Anthony Hayward undertook site visits: Dr Hayward and Mr Glasenberg served throughout the set a clear objective to reduce fatalities.
Mr Coates stepped down from the Board on 2 May it received a report on, reviewed and made but was reappointed to the Committee following his recommendations in respect of, each fatality.
It also reappointment to the Board in June.
Upon the acquisition implemented video reconstructions for individual of Xstrata taking effect Messrs Ian Strachan and Con fatalities to increase awareness: Fauconnier were appointed to the Committee but ceased introduced the SafeWork programme focussing on to be members upon them ceasing to be directors on identification of fatal hazards and an appropriate safety 16 May.
The Committee met five times during the year culture.
Employees at the Companys assets must and each Committee member attended all of the meetings understand the Glencore fatal hazard protocols and which were held while being a member.
Every meeting identify the fatal hazards that they are most at risk from: had a substantial agenda, reflecting the Committees objective of providing leadership for the Group in seeking considered a new crisis management plan which to achieve improved HSEC standards over time.
included an implementation process consisting of departmental briefings, training and teaching, mock Role and responsibilities drills and post crisis evaluations and Board reports: The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: decided to seek membership of the International Council evaluate the effectiveness of policies and systems for on Mining and Metals and initiated the membership identifying and managing environmental, health, safety application process: and community risks: invited and led an investor roadshow to inform and assess the policies and systems for ensuring compliance receive feedback on the Companys sustainable with environmental, health and safety regulatory development strategy and approach to HSEC requirements: management: and assess performance with regard to the impact of HSEC considered a variety of other material HSEC issues related decisions and actions upon employees, such as resettlement programmes, incident reporting communities and other third parties: and emergency response preparedness.
receive reports concerning all fatalities and serious Peter Coates accidents and actions taken as a result of such incidents: Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment & evaluate and oversee the quality and integrity of any Communities Committee reporting to external stakeholders concerning HSEC 17 March 2014 matters: and review the results of any independent reviews of performance in regard to HSEC matters and strategies and action plans developed by management in response to issues raised.
