CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement Statement of compliance with the CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION UK Corporate Governance Code The company is subject to the UK As chairman, with responsibility for ensuring that high standards Corporate Governance Code which is ofcorporate governance are maintained, I am pleased to introduce issued by the Financial Reporting Council thecorporate governance report for 2012 13. and which is available at www.
The code sets out guidance in the form We recognise that good governance is important in helping the business to of principles and provisions on how deliver its strategy, generate shareholder value and safeguard our shareholders companies should be directed and longterm interests.
We also note the emphasis within the UK Corporate controlled to follow good governance Governance Code the code on well balanced, effective boards, strong practice.
Companies listed in the UK oversight of risk management, alignment of remuneration policies with are required to disclose how they have shareholder interests and sound shareholder relations.
applied the main principles and whether they have complied with its provisions This years corporate governance report, and the sections therein from each throughout the financial year.
Where the of the board committees, describes the operation of the board and explains provisions have not been complied with how we applied the principles of good governance set out in the code during companies must provide an explanation.
This was a year when we saw the retirement of Norman Murray as The board considers that the company senior independent director and chairman of the remuneration committee.
has complied with the UK Corporate Ian Durant, who has been on the board since 2007, has taken over as senior Governance Code dated June 2010 throughout the year, except in the independent director, whilst Lynne Weedall was appointed to the board following area.
inOctober 2012 and took over as chairman of the remuneration committee at the beginning of this calendar year.
7.1 requires that all directors of The directors remuneration report sets out details of the FTSE 350 companies should be subject remuneration review we have been conducting during to annual election by shareholders.
the course of the last year, which incorporates a number Atthe last AGM three directors submitted themselves for reelection as the other of additional disclosures consistent with the governments directors had submitted themselves proposed new regulations on remuneration reporting for reelection the previous year.
which will apply to the company next year.
Thisyear the company will askall ofits directors to submit themselves for reelection.
Tim Bridge Chairman as chief executive.
However, the board is new appointments, the policy of the company The board satisfied that he shows independent judgment, is to recruit on merit for each role on offer, Board composition that his performance as chairman is effective whether executive or nonexecutive.
We set As at the year end the board comprised the and that he demonstrates continued out a job specification and a profile of the likely chairman, two executive directors and four commitment to the role.
characteristics, qualifications, experience nonexecutive directors.
The nonexecutive and merits required before starting a search, chairman is Tim Bridge, the chief executive Prior to his retirement at the end of and aim to find the individual who is best Rooney Anand, and the senior independent December 2012 Norman Murray was the suited to the role, without prejudice between director Ian Durant.
senior independent nonexecutive director male and female candidates.
and thereafter Ian Durant took over that role.
The directors biographies are on page 38.
Ian Durant has never been employed by the During the year Lynne Weedall was appointed The board believes that the structure and company and has diverse business interests.
to the board as a new nonexecutive director size of the board is appropriate and that no The board considers that he remained and became chairman of the remuneration single individual or group dominates the independent in both character and judgment, committee at the beginning of January 2013. decision making process.
that his performance has been effective and We thus currently have one female director Independence of that he has demonstrated commitment to on the board.
Notwithstanding Lord Davies  the role.
The same was also applicable to desire for targets to be set, andlooking Norman Murray whilst he was the senior forward to where we may be by 2015, we do In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, more than half of the board, independent director.
As well as supporting not think a percentage target is the right the chairman, a key responsibility for the way to address the issue of female directors excluding the chairman, are nonexecutive directors and the board is satisfied that all senior independent director is to be available for a board of seven people, where the key for direct contact from shareholders should will be to ensure a suitable range of skills, of these were independent throughout the year, in that they satisfied the independence they require.
experience and knowledge across the board members and where the issue of gender and criteria of the code on their appointment Diversity and continue to satisfy those criteria.
diversity will be just one consideration taken The board approves of the principle of into account when filling board vacancies.
Tim Bridge, the chairman, was not independent trying to recruit more women into senior on appointment, having previously served management and director roles.
When making 40 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
co. uk There is a twoday offsite meeting for the Leadership Operation of the board board in February each year focusing on Role of the board The board has a formal schedule of matters strategy, with the business unit managing which is reserved for its decision, including The board is collectively responsible for directors attending for part thereof.
The approval of the longterm objectives and thelongterm success of the company.
The strategy sessions include an indepth review strategy, approval of budgets and financial chairman is responsible for the leadership of relevant economic factors, managements statements including the report and accounts, and effectiveness of the board and for ensuring projections for the medium term and provide acquisitions and disposals, changes to the that each nonexecutive director is able to the board with an opportunity to agree the structure of the group and overall corporate make an effective contribution to the board strategic plans for the short and medium governance issues.
It reviews trading through debate and discussion with the term.
Following approval of the companys performance and considers major capital executive directors.
He is also responsible for strategy, budgets are prepared for the next expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
setting the style and tone of board discussions.
financial year to be approved by the board The board has delegated certain The chief executives role is to develop the in April.
The board reviews each business responsibilities to standing committees, details companys strategic direction and to lead unit and main functional area including of which are set out below.
By delegating key senior management in executing the property and commercial in detail at least responsibilities to these committees, the companys strategy and dealing with the once each year, with particular focus on the board is able to ensure that adequate time is operational requirements of the business.
achievement of strategic objectives, with the devoted by board members to the oversight relevant managing director and functional The nonexecutive directors have a particular of key areas within their responsibility.
head attending to present and answer questions.
responsibility to ensure that the strategies Daytoday management and control of the proposed by the executive directors are Between meetings, as required, the board business is delegated to the executive directors carefully examined and fully discussed, that can be in frequent contact to progress the and the business unit managing directors, the performance of the company is monitored companys business and if necessary, board who meet formally on a monthly basis together and challenged and that the financial meetings can be held at short notice.
Where with other senior managers as appropriate.
information provided is comprehensive possible, however, ad hoc committees of the andaccurate.
They are also responsible for board are appointed to deal with matters Board meetings are scheduled to be held eight ensuring, through the relevant committees, which it is known will need to be dealt with times a year, with main meetings linked to key that appropriate remuneration arrangements between scheduled board meetings.
It is events in the companys financial calendar, are in place for the executive directors.
expected that all directors attend board and with the annual results and dividend being relevant committee meetings, unless they are approved in June or July and the interim The offices of chairman and chief executive prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
results and dividend in November or December.
The division of If directors are unable to attend meetings in Regular agenda items include an overview responsibilities between them has been person or by telephone they are given the of the market and current trading as well as clearly established, set out in writing and opportunity to be consulted and comment a detailed review of financial performance agreed by the board.
The job descriptions in advance of the meeting.
m Greene King board approve the groups longterm objectives, commercial strategy and the overall The board is ultimately responsible fundingstrategy: for the longterm success of the company.
Its principal responsibilities approve the budgets and financial statements, including the report andaccounts: are to: approve acquisitions and disposals: and oversee the groups operations and review performance in the light of the groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Reviews structure, size Sets remuneration policy: sets Reviews and monitors full year and andcomposition of the board: executive director remuneration interim results: monitors internal makes recommendations and incentives: approves annual financial controls: oversees forappointments: performance objectives: approves external audit relationship: successionplanning.
Tim Bridge Chairman, Lynne Weedall Chairman, Ian Durant Chairman, JohnBrady, Mike Coupe, JohnBrady, Ian Durant JohnBrady, Mike Coupe IanDurant, LynneWeedall 41 www.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC Members Committee CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement continued Leadership continued Operation of the board continued Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is set out below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee Executive directors Rooney Anand 8 8 Matthew Fearn 8 8 Non-executive directors Tim Bridge 8 8 2 2 John Brady 8 8 3 3 4 4 2 2 Ian Durant 8 8 3 3 4 4 1 1 Norman Murray 5 5 2 2 1 1 Mike Coupe 7 8 3 3 1 1 Lynne Weedall 5 5 3 3 1 1 Norman Murray retired from the board on 31 December 2012.
Lynne Weedall was appointed to the board on 11 October 2012.
Me mbership of the nomination committee was extended to all nonexecutive directors with effect from1January 2013. shortly after her appointment and also Board papers are circulated seven days prior were discussed at the nomination committee metwith remuneration advisers prior to each board or committee meeting to ensure and the board.
totaking over as chairman of the that directors have sufficient time to review An externally facilitated evaluation will remuneration committee.
Documentation need to be performed again in two years includes detailed management accounts, There is an agreed procedure, set out in writing, time, in accordance with the requirements reports on current trading, reports from for directors, in furtherance of their duties, of the code.
each business unit and main functional area to take independent professional advice and full papers on matters where the board An appraisal of the chairmans performance atthe companys expense.
Directors also is required to give its approval.
was initiated prior to the year end and have access to the services of the company completed recently.
The performance of the secretary.
The company has inplace directors The chairman holds regular, informal executive directors is reviewed annually by and officers liability insurance.
meetings with the nonexecutive directors the remuneration committee in conjunction without the executive directors being present Conflicts of interest with their annual pay review and the payment and the nonexecutives also meet with the The board has the right, under the articles of of bonuses.
chairman and the chief executive on an association, to approve potential situational informal basis twice each year.
Training and support conflicts of interest.
A small number of such Each director is responsible for ensuring that potential conflicts has been approved by the Board effectiveness they remain up to date in their skills and board following disclosure by certain directors, Board performance and evaluation knowledge of the company and the training in each case with the relevant director not needs of the board and its committees are taking part in any decision relating to their There is an ongoing dialogue within the regularly reviewed.
Particular emphasis is own position.
Directors are also aware that the board to ensure that it operates effectively.
placed on ensuring that directors are aware disclosure and authorisation of any potential As a result of points raised during the year of proposed legislative changes in areas conflict situation does not detract from their an additional session on strategy planning such as remuneration, corporate governance requirement to notify the board separately was held prior to the twoday offsite strategy and financial reporting and sector specific of an actual or potential conflict in relation meeting.
All directors are also encouraged to to a proposed transaction by thecompany.
requested and have been given more access visit the companys pubs and restaurants to senior management other than the business and do so throughout the year.
Communication with shareholders unit managing directors.
The board is keen to ensure that our Newlyappointed directors receive a tailored Given that an external evaluation exercise shareholders have a good understanding induction on joining the board toacquaint was undertaken during the 2011 12 financial ofthe business and its performance, and them with the company.
Thisgenerally year, it was agreed that the evaluation this that the directors are aware of any issues takes the form of meetings with other board year would be undertaken internally.
It took orconcerns which shareholders may have.
members and senior management and the the form of a detailed questionnaire that all Communication with shareholders takes provision of an induction pack containing directors were asked to complete and return avariety of forms.
general information on the company, its to the chairman.
The questionnaires covered policies and procedures, financial and a range of areas including questions on board Institutional shareholders and analysts operational information and a briefing on structure and composition, strategy and There is a regular dialogue with institutional directors responsibilities.
Lynne Weedall financials, board processes, risks, the boards shareholders, including meetings after the was provided with specific training on the committees and on corporate governance announcement of the yearend and interim obligations of directors of listed companies generally.
The responses by the directors results.
Analysts are also invited to 42 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
Each of the terms of reference, to the group, was appointed to assist and was Communication with shareholders continued which have been approved by the board, are asked to produce a short list of about six available on request or to download from candidates, which included both men and Institutional shareholders and analysts the companys website and will be available women.
At the end of the process Lynne continued for inspection at the AGM.
Weedall was selected as the best candidate.
presentations at those times and separately Arrangements were made for her to meet to analyst trips to visit our premises and Set out below are reports from each of the all of the other nonexecutive directors hear presentations on specific divisions of nomination committee, remuneration prior to her appointment being the business.
The board receives regular committee and audit committee.
reports from the chief executive on the meetings he and the finance director have That appointment was also part of the Nomination committee report with principal shareholders, and copies succession planning activities of the During the year the nomination committee ofanalysts reports on the company.
It was made in a timely manner was chaired by Tim Bridge.
The other members prior to Norman Murrays retirement, to of the committee were Norman Murray Recently a consultation exercise has been enable a few months smooth handover andJohn Brady until 31 December 2012. held with a number of the companys major between them.
Succession planning will With effect from 1 January 2013 and after shareholders in relation to the companys continue to be a focus for the committees discussion with the nonexecutive directors, executive remuneration and the proposed activities during next year.
it was determined that all the nonexecutive introduction of a new LTIP.
The senior directors should be appointed as members independent nonexecutive director, Having considered what has now become of the committee.
Apart from the chairman, IanDurant, is available to shareholders if standard market practice in this area, and allmembers were considered by the board they have concerns about governance issues on the recommendation of the nomination to be independent.
which the normal channels of contact fail committee, the board has decided this year toresolve.
to ask all directors to stand for reelection at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual general meeting The role of the The AGM is fully utilised as a means of nominationcommittee Remuneration committee report communicating directly with private The role of the nomination committee The remuneration committee was chaired shareholders, who receive a brief presentation is to identify, evaluate and nominate during the year by Norman Murray until his on the business before the substantive part candidates for appointment to the board, retirement from the board on 31 December 2012. of the meeting begins.
They also have the to review regularly the structure, size Lynne Weedall joined the committee on her full opportunity to ask questions during the and composition including skills, appointment to the board in October 2012, and meeting and to meet directors and senior knowledge and experience of the then took over as chairman from 1 January 2013. management informally after the meeting.
board and make recommendations to The other members of the committee were The board aims to ensure that all members the board with regard to any adjustments Ian Durant and John Brady.
All the members of the board, including in particular the that are deemed necessary.
are considered by the board to be independent.
chairmen of the board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
The committee is also responsible for considering the companys succession All substantive items of business at The role of the plans for board members and senior shareholders meetings are dealt with under  management, taking into account the separate resolutions, including a resolution challenges and opportunities facing the The role of the committee includes to adopt the report and accounts.
The chairman company, and what skills and expertise determining the remuneration policy for announces the results of the proxy voting are therefore needed on the board in the executive directors, the chairman on each resolution after it has been dealt the future, and for reviewing membership and those members of senior management with on a show of hands.
of the boards committees to ensure whose details appear on page 38 and 39.
Website that undue reliance is not placed upon Itagrees the total individual remuneration any individuals.
package of each of the executive directors The company maintains a website and those senior managers, considers the www.
co. uk to provide uptodate, granting of awards under the longterm detailed information on the companys incentive plan and determines bonuses operations and brands, which includes The committee met twice during the year.
payable to the executive directors and adedicated investor relations section.
Attendance at these meetings by the senior managers.
Allcompany announcements are available committee members is shown in the table on this site, as are copies of slides used for on page 42. presentations to investment analysts.
We Matters considered by the committee during The remuneration committee held four are happy to answer questions by telephone the year included the proposed appointment scheduled meetings during the year.
co. uk of Lynne Weedall, board succession planning, Thechairman and the chief executive, or companysecretary@greeneking.
committee composition, the board evaluation atthe request of the committee, attend its exercise and the reelection of directors.
The chairman does not participate Board committees in any discussions relating to his own With regard to the appointment of Lynne The board has established a nomination remuneration.
The chief executive is Weedall, the focus was on finding someone committee, a remuneration committee consulted by the committee on its proposals, who could take over the role of chairman andan audit committee, each of which has but does not participate in any discussions ofthe remuneration committee.
The Zygos formal terms of reference governing its method relating to his own remuneration.
Partnership, which provides no other services 43 www.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement continued Thisresolution will be put to shareholders Remuneration committee report Financial statements and audit continued at the AGM.
Before the start of the audit cycle, the Thecommittees external adviser, committee reviewed the audit plan presented The audit committee has established a policy NewBridgeStreet Consultants, attended by the auditor and agreed the scope of the in relation to the use of Ernst & Young LLP three of the meetings in connection with audit work.
The committee then discussed for nonaudit work.
The company will award the review of the companys remuneration arange of issues arising from the audit and nonaudit work to the firm which provides structure.
reviewed the consistency of accounting the best commercial solution for the work in policies on a year to year basis and across question, taking into account the skills and Details of the companys policies on the group, and the methods used to account experience of the firm, the nature of the remuneration, service contracts and for significant or unusual transactions, services involved, the level of fees relative to compensation payments are set out in including in particular the assessment of the audit fee and whether there are safeguards theremuneration report on pages 46 to 50. impairment losses and tax.
During the year in place to mitigate to an acceptable level particular attention was paid to the accounting any threat to objectivity and independence Audit committee report changes necessitated by the closure of the in the conduct of the audit resulting from The audit committee was chaired during groups final salary pension schemes to future such services.
The committee reviewed managements of the committee were John Brady and Work estimated to cost in excess of 25,000 attestation paper setting out the information Mike Coupe.
All members are considered by is put out to tender unless agreed otherwise that had been provided to the auditor to enable the board to be independent.
The board is by the chairman of the audit committee.
them to form their opinion on the groups satisfied that Ian Durant has recent and The finance director may approve specific financial statements and demonstrating that relevant financial experience, as the former engagements up to 50,000 in aggregate up it was appropriate for the directors to make finance director of Liberty International plc, to 100,000 pa, and the chairman of the audit the representations set out in the letter of since renamed as Intu Properties PLC.
committee may approve engagements up to representation.
The financial statements 100,000 in aggregate up to 200,000 pa, and interim results themselves were also with fees in excess of those limits being subject reviewed in detail prior to their submission to approval of the full committee.
During The role of the auditcommittee to the board.
the year the company made limited use of The role of the audit committee is to After the audit was completed a review specialist teams within Ernst & Young LLP review the financial reporting process, and ofthe effectiveness of the auditor and of for nonaudit work such as taxation advice, the related external audit conclusions, theaudit service was undertaken by means primarily in relation to certain tax matters of the full year and interim results, in of aquestionnaire completed by the audit on which Ernst & Young LLP specialists each case prior to their submission to committee chairman, the group finance had originally advised.
The committee was the board.
It is also responsible for director, and a number of key members of satisfied that the use of separate teams, and reviewing the companys internal the finance team involved in the preparation in particular the use of a separate team to financial control systems, advising the of the statutory accounts.
The review covered audit the tax disclosures in the report and board on the appointment of the external the overall quality of the service, the audit accounts, ensured that auditor independence auditor, overseeing the relationship partner and the audit team, and considered and objectivity was safeguarded.
The total with the external auditor, reviewing the matters such as the management of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP amounted companys whistle blowing procedures audit team, the quality of their insight and to 382,000, of which 56,000 related to and considering the need for a full communications and the costeffectiveness nonaudit work.
Italso reviews of the audit.
The committee reviewed the the groups risk management policies The committee also reviewed and debated a feedback provided and satisfied itself as to and procedures prior to submission to report from Ernst & Young LLP in which it the quality of the audit service.
The feedback the board and receives detailed reports confirmed compliance with its own policies, was also provided to Ernst & Young.
on the risk management processes within procedures and ethical standards, including the business units.
Regular updates are External auditor those of the Auditing Practices Board, in provided to the committee on regulatory, Ernst & Young have been the companys relation to auditor objectivity and independence, accounting and reporting developments auditor since 1997.
They are required to and, after due consideration, satisfied itself under relevant financial standards rotate the audit partner responsible for the that the safeguards put in place to protect andcodes.
group and subsidiary audits every five years the independence and objectivity of the and the current audit partner was appointed service provided by the external auditor in the autumn of 2011.
The board is aware of were appropriate.
There is a planned programme of meetings the new requirements of the UK Corporate during the year to deal with all matters within The committee also approved a policy Governance Code with regard to audit the committees sphere of responsibility.
inrelation to the appointment of former tendering and is currently proposing to put The committee had three meetings and on employees of the auditor by the group.
The the audit of the group and subsidiary accounts each occasion the finance director and senior policy provides that audit partners will not out to tender no later than 2016, with a view members of the finance function attended.
be offered employment by Greene King or to any change, if agreed, taking effect for The external auditor attended all of the any of its subsidiary undertakings within the 2016 17 statutory accounts, at the end of meetings.
There is an opportunity at each two years of undertaking any role on the the current audit partners term.
In addition meeting for the committee to discuss audit.
Other key team members will not be to the assessment of the effectiveness of the matters privately with the auditor without offered employment by Greene King within audit outlined above, the committee also management present.
In addition, the six months of undertaking any role on the assessed and found itself satisfied with the chairman of the committee is in regular audit.
Other audit team members who accept objectivity and independence of Ernst & Young, contact with the external audit partner to employment by Greene King must cease on the basis set out below, and, accordingly, discuss matters relevant to the company.
activity on the audit immediately when they agreed to recommend Ernst & Youngs tender their resignation to the audit firm.
reappointment as auditor to the board.
44 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
co. uk Audit committee report continued The key elements of the internal Internal audit control framework are: The committee reviewed the companys the schedule of matters reserved internal audit function, which currently forthe board: focuses primarily on the groups Retail division, although its remit is being expanded.
the groups defined management Elsewhere within the group a combination structure with suitable authority of the external audit procedures and the limits and responsibilities, staffed types of financial risks involved are felt to byappropriate personnel: be such that a wider internal audit function regular updates for the board is not required.
This will be reviewed on an onstrategy: annual basis.
a comprehensive planning and Other matters financial reporting procedure including The committee reviewed, as it does on an annual budgets and a threeyear strategic annual basis, the groups whistle blowing plan, both of which are reviewed and policy and its application across the business.
approved by the board: A review of the groups tax risk policy was ongoing monitoring by both the undertaken during the year to ensure that board and senior management of clear guidance was available to management performance against budgets, in relation to future tax arrangements.
through the periodic reporting of The terms of reference of the committee detailed management accounts and were also reviewed and updated during the key performance indicators: year and an exercise was undertaken to assess ongoing monitoring by the board of the effectiveness of the audit committee itself.
compliance with financial covenants: Internal control and risk management a centralised financial reporting The board has overall responsibility for the system and close process, with controls groups risk management framework and and reconciliation procedures designed systems of internal control and for reviewing to facilitate the production of the their effectiveness, whilst the audit committee consolidated accounts: monitors and reviews those internal controls clearly defined evaluation and and risks on a regular basis, and reports to approval processes for acquisitions the board on its findings.
During the course and disposals, capital expenditure of the year the committee reviewed in detail and project control, with escalating reports from each business unit and functional levels of authority including board area on their respective risk management approval for major acquisitions and processes and key risks, so that each area was disposals, detailed appraisal and reviewed at least once.
Representatives of review procedures and post the relevant business unit or functional area completion reviews: attended those meetings to present the reports and answer questions from the committee.
review of retail operational compliance by the retail internal audit A summary of the risk management team responsible and other analytical framework is set out on page 28.
The risk and control procedures facilitated management framework and internal control bythe EPOS till system: and systems are designed to manage, and not toeliminate, the risk of failure to achieve documented policies to cover bribery business objectives.
They can provide and whistle blowing and regular reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that updates on any incidents.
the groups assets are safeguarded and that the financial information used within the DTR Disclosure business and for external reporting is reliable.
The information required by DTR 7.1 and The company has in place procedures to assess DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, except for the key risks to which it is exposed and has information required under DTR 7.2.
6 formalised the control environment needed which is set out in the directors report.
to address these and other issues.
There are processes in place which accord with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, and these remained in place up to the date of this report.
The board issatisfied that there are no significant weaknesses in these systems.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC
