72 Corporate Governance Report Building the range of parts, accessories and clothing Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate As a Board we are committed to Governance Code continually reviewing and refreshing For the period ended 29 March 2013 the Board considers that the the Groups Corporate Governance Group has complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 except where Dennis Millard stood in as Interim Executive framework.
Examples throughout Chairman between 18 July 2012 and 21 November 2012 as described the year were the implementation on page 74 and except with respect to the ongoing service of Keith Harris and Bill Ronald as described on page 75.
The Code is of stronger Delegated Authority published by the Financial Reporting Council from whom paper and arrangements and the Group downloadable versions can be obtained via its website: Treasury and Tax Strategy and policy www.
We have outlined in this report how we have complied with the five main principles of the Code using the same headings as documents.
the main sections of the Code.
Dennis Millard Chairman To allow for effective decision-making within the Group, the Board maintains a schedule of matters formally reserved for its decision, coupled with a schedule delegating other decisions to its Committees, Executive Directors and management.
In summary: Matters Reserved Include: for the Board Authority e. g. division of responsibilities and review of its Available on our Corporate Website.
Strategy and Management e. g. approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any material changes thereto.
Structure and Capital e. g. changes to structure or listing status.
Investor Relations Contracts e. g. significant corporate transactions.
Audit, Financial Reporting and Controls e. g. reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk and control processes to support its strategy and objectives.
Nominations to the Board Executive Remuneration Board Committees The terms of reference of each Committee establish its Available on our Corporate Website.
responsibilities: these are summarised on pages 78 to 81.
Executive Directors Day-to-day decisions are delegated to the Executive Directors A formal delegated authorities document confirms and Management and management via established procedures for approving how and by whom approval can be obtained and what decisions within business functions.
Examples of decisions evidence is required of such approval.
This document delegated in this way are approval of adverts, signature of has been reviewed during the year, and tighter controls day-to-day contracts, engaging of new suppliers, entering into have been put in place.
22357-04 11 06 2013 MIDDLE Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 73 Leadership The Role of the Board Shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders Risk management Values and and accountability standards controls Collective Responsibilities of the Board Review Long-term management direction and performance strategy Right resources to deliver Responsibility Specific Actions Shareholders, customers, employees and Acting in the best interests of the Monitoring material customer Employee engagement survey, other stakeholders.
Company to generate value for service issues including resultant review of bonus scheme and shareholders.
Risk management and accountability Consideration and approval Review of the risk management Approval of corporate governance controls.
of all regulatory and statutory strategy and systems of internal arrangements and policies, including announcements, including those controls.
Group Treasury and Tax Strategy and pertaining to results and dividends.
Policy documents, Health & Safety policy, and introduction of tighter delegated authority arrangements.
Two full days dedicated to strategy Regular review of forecast versus Regular updates on the progress of discussions.
Consideration of commercial Monitoring of colleague retention Implementation of a regular colleague initiatives such as logistics and data.
engagement survey and analysis of business systems improvements.
Clear division of responsibilities Regularly reviewing of standard Interlinking of management between Chairman and Chief agenda and special management performance to non-financial, as well Executive available on our Corporate reports.
CSR and Community programmes More frequent visits by the NonIntroduction of regular meetings e. g. Bikeworks, Charity Partnerships, Executive Directors to stores, between colleagues and senior Kids Holiday Bike Clubs autocentres and the Support Centre.
From 18 July 2012 to 21 November 2012 Dennis Millard held the role of both Chairman and Chief Executive when he stood in as Interim Executive Chairman following David Wilds departure.
22357-04 11 06 2013 MIDDLE Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Governance www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 74 Corporate Governance Report continued The Company has appropriate Directors Liability Insurance in place.
The table below shows the composition of the Board and its Committees, and sets out the number of meetings attended by each individual throughout the period.
Meeting Attendance The Board indicates attendance by invitation Date of Audit Remuneration Nomination Role Appointment Board Committee Committee Committee Board Member Scheduled: 14 Scheduled: 3 Scheduled: 6 Scheduled: 3 Dennis Millard Chairman and Chair of Nomination 28 May 2009 14 3 6 3 Committee Matt Davies Chief Executive current 4 October 2013 3 1 2 1 David Wild Chief Executive former 4 August 2008 7 2 2 n a Andrew Findlay Finance Director 1 February 2011 14 3 n a n a Paul McClenaghan Commercial Director former 31 March 2007 13 2 n a n a Bill Ronald Senior Independent Director 17 May 2004 14 3 6 3 David Adams Non-Executive Director and Chair 1 March 2011 13 3 6 3 of Audit Committee Claudia Arney Non-Executive Director 25 January 2011 14 3 6 3 Keith Harris Non-Executive Director and Chair 17 May 2004 14 3 6 3 of Remuneration Committee Includes David Wild who resigned on 18 July 2012, Matt Davies who was appointed on 4 October 2012 and Paul McClenaghan who resigned on 12 April 2013.
The Board recognises that it is preferable that the position of Chairman The Senior Independent Director, Bill Ronald: and Chief Executive are not held by the same individual and maintains a clear division of the responsibilities of these two roles.
However, from is available to act as an intermediary for the other Directors or a 18 July 2012 to 21 November 2012 Dennis Millard acted as Interim sounding board for the Chairman as required: Executive Chairman whilst the Company undertook a search for a leads meetings with the other Non-Executive Directors without the new Chief Executive.
It was felt that Dennis Millard was best placed to Chairman at least annually to appraise his performance: and lead the Company during this brief period of four months due to his can be contacted by shareholders if direct contact with the knowledge and experience of the Company.
Following the presentation Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors has of the Groups interim results on 21 November 2012 the Company not alleviated their concerns, or if such contact would not be returned to the position of having a separate Chairman and Chief appropriate.
Executive in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Concerns over any unresolved business can be recorded on behalf Non-Executive Directors of a Director in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
At the time of The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for providing independent resignation, a Non-Executive Director is able to raise any concerns in challenge and rigour to deliberations by: a written letter to the Chairman who will bring such concerns to the attention of the Board.
contributing to strategy discussions: considering the reporting of performance by managers against agreed goals and objectives, and providing critique where necessary: ensuring the financial information, risk management and controls processes of the Group are appropriately vigorous: undertaking regular meetings with senior management and periodic visits to stores and autocentres: meeting together regularly without the Executive Directors present: and considering Executive Director remuneration and succession planning.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 75 Diversity Effectiveness The Composition of the Board The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee state that potential candidates should be considered on merit and against The Directors possess an appropriate combination of skills, experience, objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity independence and knowledge of the Company to collectively act in on the Board, including gender.
The Board, which includes one the best interests of the Company via the Board and its Committees, female member, considers the background and experience brought without responsibilities or decision-making being dominated by any to the Board by each individual to contribute to its diversity.
In any one individual or small group.
Each Director commits sufficient time recruitment, the Board prefers to select the best-qualified candidate and attention as is necessary to discharge their duties.
to provide the Board with the support and expertise required to implement its long-term strategy, rather than to fulfil any fixed quota.
Skills In recommending new appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee considers the existing balance of skills, knowledge and 9 9 3 6 experience on the Board, the capabilities of the nominees and the time they have available to commit to the Company when making recommendations to the Board.
Leadership Strategy Governance Business Development Brand Building Includes David Wild who resigned on 18 July 2012, Matt Davies who was appointed on 4 October 2012 and Paul McClenaghan who resigned on 12 April 2013.
All the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
As at 17 May 2013, both Keith Harris and Bill Ronald will have served as Non-Executive Directors of the Company for nine years.
The Board acknowledges that under the UK Corporate Governance Code it should determine whether service of more than nine years from the date of first election of each individual affects their independence.
The Board considers that both Keith Harris and Bill Ronald continue to be independent in character and judgement.
Nevertheless a process has commenced to recruit two new Non-Executive Directors to replace both Bill Ronald Executive NonMale Female and Keith Harris in the year ahead and thus both Keith Harris and Bill Executive Ronald will offer themselves for re-election.
Shows situation as maintained throughout the period to 29 March 2013.
On 12 April 2013, Paul McClenaghan resigned and so the Company now has two Executive Directors and six male members of the Board.
62.5% Percentage of Directors who are Independent Shows the percentage of Directors considered independent in character and judgement throughout the period.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 76 Corporate Governance Report continued Appointments to the Board Knowledge of the Company During the period, Matt Davies was recruited as Chief Executive.
Egon Zehnder International EZI were engaged by the Company to conduct the search for suitable candidates and short-listed several candidates who met individually with members of the Board.
Feedback from these one-to-one meetings was fed back to the Chairman.
The Nomination Committee subsequently met to discuss the potential appointment and to recommend the appointment of Matt Davies to the Board, which met on 3 October 2012 to formally approve the appointment.
Experience 7 5 2 5 0-3 years 3-6 years 6-9 years Includes David Wild who resigned on 18 July 2012, Matt Davies who was appointed on Retail Finance Banking Corporate 4 October 2012 and Paul McClenaghan who resigned on 12 April 2013.
Evaluation Egon Zehnder International EZI conducted a Board Effectiveness 2 2 3 9 Review the EZI report during May 2012.
The process comprised: circulation of a pre-discussion guide meetings of c. 2 hours between EZI and each Board member and the Company Secretary Digital Supply Marketing Crossfunctional Chain review of the EZI report with the Chairman Includes David Wild who resigned on 18 July 2012, Matt Davies who was appointed on circulation of the EZI report to the Board 4 October 2012 and Paul McClenaghan who resigned on 12 April 2013. discussion of the EZI report at the Board meeting in June 2012 with EZI consultants in attendance Development and Support individual feedback to the Chairman from EZI and the Senior An induction programme is maintained for new Directors, which is Independent Director tailored to include briefings on the activities of the Group and visits to individual feedback to the other Directors from the Chairman operational sites.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, prepared a comprehensive induction programme for Matt Davies when he joined the Company.
This included: extensive store The overall conclusion of EZI was that the levels of engagement and distribution centre visits and on-site discussions with store and and openness throughout the process were very high and EZI distribution centre colleagues: one-to-one meetings with the senior were encouraged that the Board were so keen to enhance Board management teams: and the provision of induction materials covering effectiveness.
The Board remains mindful of the conclusions of the EZI the operational and organisational structure of the business, as well as report and continues to look for ways to improve.
the strategic aims and key initiatives of the Company.
Re-election Ongoing resources available to the Directors to maintain and develop In compliance with the Code and the Companys Articles of their knowledge are: Association, all Directors on the Board as at 29 March 2013, except for Paul McClenaghan, will seek re-election at the Companys AGM.
Matt membership of the Deloitte Academy, a training and guidance Davies who was appointed to the Board on 4 October 2012 will offer resource for boards and directors: himself for election at the AGM.
a programme of head office and store visits through the period: regular reviews with the Chairman to identify any training and development needs: advice and the services of the Company Secretary on governance, relevant legislative changes affecting the business or their duties as directors: and access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 77 Board Committees Directors and their Other Interests The Board discharges some of its responsibilities via Nomination, Audit Each Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he or and Remuneration Committees, and more detail about these follows she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or this section.
The Company Secretary also acts as the secretary to each possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational Committee.
Whilst not entitled to attend, other Directors, professional conflict.
These interests were considered and approved by the Board advisors and senior management attend when invited to.
The Auditor in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and each attends certain Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
No member Director was informed of the authorisation and the terms on which it is present at Nomination and Remuneration Committee discussions was given.
All Directors are aware of the need to consult with the pertinent to them.
Company Secretary regarding any further possible situational conflict that may arise so that prior consideration can be given by the Board as Senior members of the finance and treasury teams manage the day-toto whether or not such conflict will be approved.
day treasury needs of the Group via a Treasury Committee chaired by the Finance Director.
Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the Final market announcements are approved prior to release via a Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are Disclosure Committee made up of a minimum of two Directors.
shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 101.
Other ad hoc committees may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 78 Corporate Governance Report continued Nomination Committee Annual Activity The Committee has responsibility for: Chairman Dennis Millard considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company: reviewing senior management succession plans, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors: and The Nomination Committee is encouraged to see the making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an impact that Matt Davies appointment, and those of other appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
senior executives recently appointed, is having on colleagues and the generation of refreshing ideas within the business.
Egon Zehnder International have worked well alongside the Standing Items One-Off Considerations Nomination Committee throughout the year both in relation to Matts appointment, and the external board evaluation.
July 2012 Executive management Update on CEO recruitment Other Members Meetings succession plans Matt Davies 3 Non-Executive Director David Adams succession plans Keith Harris Committee evaluation Bill Ronald Claudia Arney September 2012 Update on CEO recruitment and recommendation of the appointment of Matt Davies The Nomination Committee is chaired by Dennis Millard and, with the exception of Matt Davies formerly David Wild, all members of the March 2013 Committee are considered independent.
The Code states that the test Review size, structure and of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his composition of the Board appointment and the Board feels it is appropriate that as all Terms of Reference Non-Executive Directors sit on the Committee, the Chairman of the Confirm Directors standing for Group should chair the Committee.
Senior members of management re-election at AGM and advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
Approve Committee memberships Confirm Committee Chairman attendance at AGM 22357-04 11 06 2013 MIDDLE Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 79 Annual Activity Accountability The Audit Committee is responsible for: Audit Committee Chairman making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the David Adams Auditor, including on independence, non-audit work undertaken against a formal policy and remuneration: reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted throughout the Period: The Audit Committee is pleased to see that the Head of assisting the Board in achieving its obligations under the Code in Internal Audit appointed during the period is commencing areas of risk management and internal control, focusing particularly the process towards the annual audit plan for future years on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and being completed by the in-house team.
The Audit Committee the Listing Rules: will continue to monitor and review the effectiveness of the ensuring that an effective system of internal financial and nonGroups internal control and risk management systems with financial controls is maintained: and the support of this new resource.
approving a formal whistleblowing policy whereby staff may, in confidence, disclose issues of concern about possible malpractice or wrongdoings by any of the Groups businesses or any of its Other Members Meetings employees without fear of reprisal, and includes arrangements to Keith Harris 3 investigate and respond to any issues raised.
Bill Ronald Claudia Arney Standing Items One-Off Considerations May 2012 Recommend the Preliminary Update on compliance and All the members of the Audit Committee are independent NonStatement to the Board for strategic initiatives Executive Directors.
Having been the Deputy Chief Executive approval and Finance Director of the House of Fraser Plc, David Adams Recommend to the Board Approval of the Non-audit Fee is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial approval of the Annual Report Policy experience and so the requisite experience to chair the Committee.
Review of External Auditors Each of the other independent Non-Executive Directors has, through Report their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
The Chairman, senior members of management and advisors are Review Statement of External invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
Auditors Independence Review of Internal Auditors FullThe Audit Committee meets according to the requirements of the Year Report Companys financial calendar.
The meetings of the Audit Committee Group Whistleblowing Policy also provide the opportunity for the independent Non-Executive Committee Evaluation Directors to meet without the Executive Directors present and to raise any issues of concern with the Auditors.
There have been two such November 2012 meetings in the period ended 29 March 2013 and nothing of note was reported.
Recommend to the Board the approval of the Interim Statement Review of Internal Audit HalfYear Report External Auditors Non-Audit Fees Terms of Reference January 2013 Review and Recommendation of External Auditors Fees Approval of External Auditors Annual Programme Approval of Internal Auditors Annual Strategy 22357-04 11 06 2013 MIDDLE Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Governance www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 80 Corporate Governance Report continued Internal Control and Risk Management The assessment and control of risk are considered by the Board to be fundamental to achieving corporate objectives.
An ongoing process for Overall responsibility for the system of internal control, reviewing its identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group and effectiveness and ensuring that there is a process to identify, evaluate the effectiveness of related controls has been established by the Board and manage any significant risks that may affect the achievement of to ensure an acceptable risk reward profile across the Group.
The key the Groups strategic objectives lies with the Board.
elements of this process which cover both the Retail and Autcocentres businesses are: The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems in a comprehensive system of monthly reporting from key Executives, accordance with the Code for the period ended 29 March 2013, identifying performance against budget, analysis of variances, major and up to the date of approving the Annual Report and Financial business issues, key performance indicators and regular forecasting: Statements.
The internal control and risk management system is well-defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve expenditure and treasury operations: business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reviews of key business risks and of managements controls and plans to mitigate these risks: and The internal audit function principally reviews the effectiveness of an annual corporate governance confirmation made to the Board by the controls operating within the business by undertaking an agreed senior Executives on the effectiveness of the identification of major schedule of independent audits each year.
The Audit Committee risks and of the monitoring of internal controls within their areas of determines the nature and scope of the annual audit programme at responsibility.
the beginning of each calendar year and revises it from time to time according to changing business circumstances and requirements.
During the year, we reviewed our risk management system.
Key elements now include: Whilst directed by Andrew Findlay, the Companys Finance Director, the internal audit function is independent in action and reporting, with oversight by the Head of Internal Audit and Risk: direct line of communication to the Audit Committee Chairman.
The regular meetings and workshops to identify and discuss key risks findings of the independent audits are reported initially to Executive and mitigations with a broad sample of Group senior management management and any necessary corrective actions are agreed.
and Executives: Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed with, review of the corporate risk register in terms of completeness and the Audit Committee along with details of progress against action plans accuracy with Executive team: and as appropriate.
Audit Committee discussion of the latest corporate risk register and the risk management system with subsequent reports to the Board.
During the period ended 29 March 2013, the Company engaged KPMG to support the internal audit process.
KPMG do not perform During the financial period to 29 March 2013 and up to the date of this a management role.
An experienced in-house Head of Internal Audit report the risk management system considered the Companys Risk and Risk was appointed in October 2012 and it is planned that Register and its alignment with the Companys key strategic objectives, following further recruitment, the annual audit plan for future years reporting the findings to the Board.
The Board considered its appetite will be completed by an in-house team supplemented by specialist for risk in relation to the top 30 risks determining that the risks and consultants as necessary.
mitigating actions were appropriate to the level of risk that was both acceptable to, and incumbent within, a FTSE 250 business.
More information on the Companys key risks and uncertainties is shown on pages 52 to 55.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 81 Remuneration Relations with Shareholders Remuneration Committee During the period ended 29 March 2013 Bill Ronald served as the Companys Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Chairman Director is available to meet shareholders upon request if they have Keith Harris concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or the Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
During the period under review the Chief Executive, Finance Director The Committee has looked to ensure that our Remuneration and Chairman have met with analysts and institutional shareholders Policy is appropriate not only to attract and retain a highto keep them informed of significant developments and report to the calibre CEO, but to incentivise all colleagues to deliver a Board accordingly on the views of these stakeholders.
Each of the sustainable business based on the Companys strategy, other Non-Executive Directors is also offered the opportunity to attend leading ultimately to an increase in shareholder value.
meetings with major shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder.
Other Members Meetings Dennis Millard 6 The Companys investor relations programme includes formal Bill Ronald presentations of full year and interim results and meetings with David Adams individual investors as appropriate.
Independent feedback from these Claudia Arney meetings is provided to the Board.
The Company Secretary also brings to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders, including private investors.
All members of the Remuneration Committee are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Directors The Interim Report and the Annual Report and Financial Statements attend Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the are the primary means of communication during the year with all of Committee Chairman.
The Board recognises the importance of the Internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and costThe Remuneration Committee has responsibility for: effectively and a Corporate and Investor Relations website facilitates communication with shareholders.
Information available online includes Making recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy on copies of the full and half-year financial statements, press releases, remuneration of Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and corporate governance information, the Terms of Reference for the members of its Executive management team.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and the Matters Determining specific remuneration packages for each of the Reserved for the Board.
The Companys financial calendar and other Chairman, the Executive Directors and Company Secretary of shareholder information, which are also available online, are set out on the Company and such members of senior management as it is page 147. delegated to consider including pension rights: any compensation payments: and the implementation of Executive incentive schemes.
The Board welcomes the opportunity to meet with shareholders and In accordance with the Committees Terms of Reference, no to hear their views and answer their questions about the Group and individual may participate in discussions relating to their own terms its business at the Companys AGM which will be held on Tuesday, and conditions of service or remuneration.
30 July 2013 at the Crowne Plaza Birmingham NEC, Pendigo Way, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham, B40 1PS.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees will be present at the Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee AGM and will be in a position to answer questions relevant to the work is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 101. of those Committees.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate A resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report will be resolutions on each substantial issue at the AGM.
The Chairman will proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
advise shareholders on the proxy voting details at the meeting.
By order of the Board Alex Henderson Company Secretary 23 May 2013 22357-04 11 06 2013 MIDDLE Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Governance www.
