NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Nomination Committee Report Governance The Nomination Committee was in place throughout the financial year.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company who was deemed to be independent on appointment to the Board.
Four of the five members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors in accordance with provision B.
Key issues and activities The Committee and the specially formed sub-committee met on several occasions during the year and considered: the re-election of all Directors at the July 2012 AGM: succession planning: Nomination Committee members external board evaluation: Geoff Unwin Chairman Andrew Williams Geoff Unwins proposed retirement: Stephen Pettit Stephen Pettits re-election to the Board and its Committees: Steve Marshall and Norman Blackwell appointed 24 July 2012 Paul Walker appointed 12 April 2013 the nomination and post year-end appointment of Paul Walker as a non-executive Director and Chairman Designate and his Allocation of time % membership of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
When the need to appoint a Director is identied, a candidate Succession planning 91% prole is developed indicating the skills, knowledge and experience required taking into account the Boards existing composition.
Composition of Board 5% External search consultancies are retained when recruiting Reelection of Directors 4% non-executive Directors and are used to evaluate internal and external candidates for succession planning.
As disclosed on pages 64 and 66, the Nomination sub-committee appointed for the Chairman succession search comprised four non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director.
A global search rm with no other connection to Halma was appointed.
A wide range of high calibre candidates was considered for the role.
The Board confirmed Paul Walkers independence upon appointment and was unanimous in its decision to appoint Paul Walker.
Responsibilities As noted on pages 64, 66 and 67, the process of appointments to The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board from the the Board is paramount in ensuring the Companys performance is non-executive Directors of the Group and the Chief Executive.
maintained and continually improved upon.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference include all On behalf of the Nomination Committee matters indicated by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Nomination Geoff Unwin Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The Chairman full terms of reference were reviewed during the year, but remain 13 June 2013 unchanged and can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: regularly review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board compared to its current position and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and the skills and expertise needed on the Board in the future: and identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise.
72 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
