AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Audit Committee Report Responsibilities The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonexecutive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The full terms of reference were updated in April 2013 in line with the revised recommendations of the September 2012 Code and can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any Audit Committee members formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and review significant financial reporting judgments contained therein: Jane Aikman Chairman Stephen Pettit have oversight of risk management, including the review of the Norman Blackwell Groups financial, operational and compliance internal controls, Steve Marshall as well as whistleblowing and fraud prevention procedures: Daniela Barone Soares monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit Allocation of time % function: make recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put Financial statements to the shareholders for their approval at the general meeting, and reports 25% on the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: Risk management 22% review and monitor the external auditors independence and Internal audit 14% objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into External audit 31% consideration the periodic rotation of audit personnel and relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and Other 8% develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit rm.
Key issues and activities The Committee not only reviews the financial reporting of the Company, but spends a significant amount of its time reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control process.
Combined with the Committees review of the internal and external audit functions, it is able to obtain sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities.
More specically, during the year the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness and looked at its activities as detailed in the table below.
Audit Committee activities Financial statements and reports Risk management policy which allows Internal Audit to reviewed the 30 March 2013 Annual considered the output from the receive, in confidence, complaints on Report and Accounts, the 29 September Group-wide risk review process to accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters: and 2012 Half Year report and the IMSs identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, reviewed the resourcing of Internal Audit.
issued in July 2012 and February 2013. the Groups changing risk prole and As part of these reviews the Committee future risk reports: External auditors and non-audit received a report from the external devoted additional time to adequately work auditors on their audit of the Annual address risk management in the Group: reviewed, considered and agreed the Report and Accounts: and scope and methodology of the audit reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups export controls.
work to be undertaken by the external internal controls and disclosures made in Internal audit auditors: the Annual Report and financial evaluated the effectiveness and the evaluated the independence and statements: scope of work to be undertaken by objectivity of the external auditors: and considered acquisition valuation the Internal Audit function: agreed the terms of engagement and methodology: reviewed management responses to fees to be paid to the external auditors for review of pension fund accounts: and audit reports issued during the year: their audit of the 30 March 2013 financial review of taxation provisions.
reviewed the Groups whistleblowing statements.
70 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Business review 10-59 Go Gov five ern rnan anc ce e 60 60- -8 86 6 Financial statements 87-147 Governance The Groups Policy on Auditor Independence and Services The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial year with provided by the External Auditor sets out restrictions on the Jane Aikman as the Chair.
All five members are independent categories of non-audit services which the external Auditors are allowed to provide to the Group.
A summary of which is provided in non-executive Directors in accordance with provision C. 3.1 of the the table below.
This policy is regularly reviewed and states that the Code.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and representatives from Group will only use the appointed external auditor for non-audit the external Auditors attend Committee meetings by invitation in order services in cases where these services do not conict with the to provide appropriate advice.
The Committee meets at least three auditors independence.
times per year and routinely meets the Auditors without the involvement of the executive Directors.
The Committee meets with The Committee confirms that Deloitte LLP remains best placed the Internal Auditor on a regular basis throughout the year.
The to advise the Group on matters related to tax compliance and the Finance Director works closely with the Chairman of the Audit structure of the Group.
The Committee accepts that certain work Committee to ensure open communication between them.
The of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the external Auditors, Board has designated Jane Aikman as the member of the Audit and appointments are made taking into account factors including Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
She is a expertise and fees.
The Committee regularly reviews the amount chartered accountant, is a finance director and has listed company and nature of the non-audit work the external Auditors perform.
The Audit Committee is notied of all non-audit services with external auditors fees between 50,000 and 100,000.
The policy Training also sets a fee level per project of 100,000 above which non-audit The Audit Committee has extended all of its meetings by an hour to services are subject to a tendering process.
The above fee levels incorporate additional time for risk-related topics and training on for non-audit services are also subject to an annual cap equal to relevant topics, for example valuation of acquisitions and disposals, the audit fee.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee also receives a financial reporting including additional coverage of audit procedures, summary of all fees, audit and non-audit, payable to the external scope and methodology, fraud, internal control and governance.
Auditor independence The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP during 2012 13 were Deloitte LLP has been the external Auditor of the Group since 2003 740,000 2012: 660,000 and non-audit service fees were and an annual review of the independence of Deloitte LLP is 307,000 2012: 210,000.
The principal non-audit service is undertaken each year.
At the year-end the Auditors formally confirmed tax-advisory related.
A summary of fees paid to the external their independence and that objectivity has been maintained.
The auditors is set out in note 6 to the Accounts on page 103.
Committee concluded that the relevant independence continues to be met.
In addition, the Auditors are required to rotate the audit partner In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & responsible for the Group audit every five years.
Following a rigorous Ireland 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Accounting evaluation of the audit service and a change in audit partner in 2010 11, Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external the Audit Committee agreed that a full tender was not required for the Auditors have confirmed their independence as Auditors of the 2011 12 audit.
The Committee reconsidered its review during 2012 13 Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
and concluded that a full tender is not currently required.
The Accordingly, the Committee unanimously recommended to the Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Board that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in Companys independent Auditors be proposed to shareholders at September 2012 and effective for Halmas 2013 14 financial year and in the AGM in July 2013 and the Board has accepted and endorsed particular the recommendation to put the external audit out to tender at this recommendation.
The Committee noted the proposed transitional arrangements with respect to audit tendering to t the five yearly cycle On behalf of the Audit Committee of partner rotation.
Consequently the Committee will consider its external tendering arrangements in anticipation of the next audit partner Jane Aikman rotation, and provide an update in the 2013 14 Annual Report.
The Chairman Committee will continue to focus on the effectiveness, objectivity and 13 June 2013 independence of the Auditor in its reviews.
Policy of auditor independence and services Prohibited non-audit services Audit-related services not subject Permitted non-audit services, appraisal or valuation services: to separate tender if fees subject to approval financial Information systems design due diligence services relating to 100,000 and implementation: acquisitions with fees in excess of audits of businesses acquired or to be bookkeeping services: 100,000: sold and due diligence services: management functions: public reporting on investment circulars: opinions audit reports on information executive recruiting and resource liquidation services in respect of provided by the company upon request services: redundant subsidiaries or associate from a third party: broker-dealer services: and companies: and advice on accounting policies: legal services.
tax-advisory fees in excess of 100,000 electronic data processing audits: and where the rms existing knowledge of tax services including local tax the Group structure is preferred.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71
