CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance with the Code of best practice The Board As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority The Board considered the independence of the Chairman, Chairman this Report explains how the Company applies the principles and Designate and each of the non-executive Directors and subjected complies with the provisions of the Financial Reporting Council UK Stephen Pettits term as a non-executive Director to particular Corporate Governance Code the Code published in June 2010 rigorous review.
Details are given on pages 67 and 72.
The Board which applied to the Company throughout the year ended continues to regard Stephen Pettit as independent and considers 30 March 2013. the Chairman, Chairman Designate and all non-executive Directors to be independent of management and free from business and other Throughout the year, the Company has fully complied with the relationships which could interfere with the exercise of independent provisions as set out in section 1 of the Code.
judgment now and in the future.
The Board believes that any shareholdings of the Chairman and non-executive Directors serve The Board has determined its ideal composition as a Chairman, to align their interests with those of shareholders.
five independent non-executive Directors and four executive Directors.
The Board adjudged this composition as an appropriate Upon appointment and at regular intervals, all Directors are offered structure for the Company providing valuable direct knowledge of appropriate training.
Under the Companys Articles, each Director operations and effective challenge surrounding the issues facing the is subject to re-election at least once every three years however, Group.
The Board will revert to its ideal composition following Geoff commencing in 2011, the Board has agreed that each Director shall Unwins retirement after the 2013 AGM.
The Board confirms that all Directors standing for election or re-election continue to be effective and Therefore, with the exception of Geoff Unwin, in accordance with demonstrate commitment to their roles.
the Code each of the Directors, being eligible, will offer themselves for election or re-election at the AGM.
Details of Directors biographies appear on pages 60 and 61 and in the Notice of Meeting.
The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of corporate strategy, investment decisions and treasury and risk management policies.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision and the Board meets at least six times each year with further ad hoc meetings as required.
Directors are issued an agenda and comprehensive Board papers in the week preceding each Board meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary as well as there being an agreed procedure for obtaining independent professional advice.
Board meeting attendance During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows: Committees Overall attendance 2 Board attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination % Total meetings 6352 Geoff Unwin 6 51 100% Andrew Williams 6 1 100% 1 Kevin Thompson 5 83% Stephen Pettit 6352 100% Neil Quinn 6 100% Jane Aikman 63 1 100% Adam Meyers 6 100% Lord Blackwell 6351 100% Steve Marshall 6352 100% Daniela Barone Soares 6 3 1 100% 1 Kevin Thompson attended all meetings except the November 2012 meeting due to familial medical circumstances.
2 There was an ordinary June Nomination Committee meeting constituted by the usual members Geoff Unwin, Andrew Williams, Stephen Pettit and Steve Marshall.
The second Nomination Committee meeting consisted of the reformulated Nomination Committee appointed for the Chairman succession search compromised of four non-executive Directors, led by Stephen Pettit, the Senior Independent Director.
64 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Business review 10-59 Go Gov five ern rnan anc ce e 60 60- -8 86 6 Financial statements 87-147 Chairmans responsibilities Chief Executives responsibilities providing coherent leadership and management of the Governance Company with the Chairman: promoting high standards of corporate governance: leading, chairing and managing the Board: developing objectives, strategy and performance standards to be agreed by the Board: ensuring all Board committees are property structured and providing input to the Boards agenda: operate with appropriate terms of reference: to regularly consider the composition and succession planning providing effective leadership of the Executive Board to achieve of the Board and its committees: the agreed strategies and objectives: securing an Executive Board of the right calibre, with specic ensuring that the Board and its committees performances responsibility for its composition, and that its succession plan are evaluated on a regular basis: and is reviewed annually with the Chairman and the non-executive ensuring adequate time is available for all agenda items.
Directors: Strategy monitoring, reviewing and managing key risks and strategies leading the Board in developing the strategy of the business with the Board: and achievement of its objectives: ensuring that the assets of the Group are adequately promoting open and constructive debate in Board meetings: safeguarded and maintained: ensuring effective implementation of Board decisions with the building and maintaining the Companys communications and support of the Chief Executive: standing with shareholders, financial institutions and the public and effectively communicating the Halma plc investment ensuring the Board manages risk effectively: and proposition to all stakeholders: consulting where appropriate with the Senior Independent ensuring the Board is aware of the view of employees on issues Director on Board matters.
of relevance to Halma plc: People living and fostering the Group values which promote ethical chairing the Nomination Committee: practices, integrity and a positive work climate, enabling the Group to attract, retain and motivate a diverse group of high identifying and meeting the induction and development needs quality employees: and of the Board and its committees: leading by example in establishing a performance orientated, developing a strong working relationship with the Chief customer focused and publicly responsible Group culture.
Executive: ensuring a strong working relationship between executive and non-executive Directors: setting clear expectations concerning the Companys culture, values and behaviours: and ensuring effective relationships are maintained with all major stakeholders in the business.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED executives and company visits, Paul Walker also attended the biennial Board constitution Halma Innovation and Technology Exposition HITE to gain a better Halma made further progress in refreshing the composition and understanding of the Halma group, our strategy, our operating diversity of our Board with the appointment of Daniela Barone Soares companies, their management teams and their products.
in November 2011 and the recent appointment of Paul Walker as our new non-executive Director and Chairman Designate.
The Nomination Board diversity Committee appointed for the Chairman succession search comprised The Board reviewed the report of Lord Davies published in February four non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, 2011 on Boardroom Diversity and contributed to the FRC review Stephen Pettit.
A global search rm, Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, of Gender Diversity on Boards noting its support for the benets which has no other connection to Halma was appointed.
A wide range of greater diversity, which is not just gender specic, but relates also of high calibre candidates was considered for the role and each to other factors such as market and international experience and Director had the opportunity to meet Paul Walker ahead of his diversity of thought.
It was agreed by the Board that a manufacturing appointment.
The Board confirmed Paul Walkers independence upon and technology company such as Halma would have to adopt appointment and was unanimous in its decision to appoint Paul policies to attract a greater number of females into management Walker.
The Board hopes to support these aims through the adoption and implementation of Halmas Diversity Policy detailed on page 58 Board induction Newly appointed non-executive Directors follow an induction rather than set quotas.
Halma aims to improve the representation of programme which include scheduled trips to a variety of companies women in senior roles and on the Board of Directors by refreshing our in each of the four sectors.
All new Directors appointed to the Board policies and reviewing implementation to ensure that they create and maintain a diverse and inclusive culture.
have a comprehensive induction programme tailored to their individual needs.
Paul Walker met with the Company Secretary to As at year end, the Board has a total of ten Directors.
The skill set review an induction pack which included Halmas governance and of the non-executive Directors includes financial, economics, risk management structure, Board evaluations, Board and Committee banking, engineering, technology, IT, communications and consumer meetings minutes, strategy papers, recent analyst and broker reports expertise.
They include eight British, one American and one Brazilian on Halma, and access to Halmas policies and procedural notes was nationals.
As well as providing a schedule of meetings with Halma has the ambition to increase the number of executives based outside Europe and the USA to better reect the proportion of our revenue generated outside those markets.
Board induction Board activity throughout the year 2012 13 During the year the Board received training and brieng updates on our sectors, market assessments and changes, acquisition opportunities and geographical priorities, succession planning, changes in corporate governance, risk management and compliance, audits, bribery and corruption, health and safety, environmental matters, city and shareholders matters, doing business in Russia, China profitability and other relevant legislative and accounting changes.
The Directors have a programmed schedule of meetings and visits with the Executive Board, Group companies and Halmas development programmes to ensure that they are able to engage with management and employees at all levels.
The Directors also have the opportunity to attend the biennial HITE and the associated conferences.
Jane Aikman and Daniela Barone Soares, non-executive Directors, extended their understanding of the Groups activities when attending HITE in May 2013.
Board activity throughout the year February April June Budget initial Budget Preliminary Results Remuneration Committee proposals Chairman and NED salaries Evaluation of prior year objectives Results of Board effectiveness survey HITE and CEO conference objectives Set annual objectives for Group Board and meetings Pensions strategy update Dividend proposal planning Interim Management Statement 2015 Board Calendar Pension fund accounts Update on FTSE position Assessment of upper quartile performance Special Guarantees guidelines update Matters Reserved for the Board 66 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Business review 10-59 Go Gov five ern rnan anc ce e 60 60- -8 86 6 Financial statements 87-147 As in prior years, the Board also met in February 2013 before the Board performance and evaluation scheduled Board meeting.
There was a meeting of the Chairman and The Board considers the evaluation of its performance and that of the non-executive Directors with the Chief Executive.
This was followed Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees annually, with each by a meeting of the Chairman and non-executive Directors only.
The Committee also evaluating its own performance.
Last year, the Board Senior Independent Director also led a meeting with the nonengaged an external facilitator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, executive Directors without the Chairman present.
The Executives for full Board and Committee evaluations.
This year, the Company were also given the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and or Secretary facilitated an internal evaluation of its performance and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
the Senior Independent Director separately.
The outcome of these meetings was then fed back to individuals by the Chairman, Senior The key conclusions of the 2012 13 evaluation were first discussed Independent Director or Chief Executive, as appropriate.
with the Chairman and subsequently presented to the full Board.
The evaluation results were discussed by the Board at the February 2013 Board meeting.
Performance evaluation cycle The 2013 internal review supported the 2012 external evaluation conclusion that the Board was effective, methodical and thorough in the way it approaches its work.
There continues to be an open Year 1 and transparent debate and an even contribution from all members External evaluation facilitation of the Board and an active and collaborative approach to performance management reected in the constructive debates in the Remuneration Committee.
The Board spent a significant amount Year 2 of time considering risks and controls and was assisted by strong financial information, effective internal and external audit processes Internal review and a strong Audit Committee.
Overall, the process confirmed the right blend of behaviours and skills around the Halma Board table.
The Board freely and openly expresses any concerns which results Year 3 in more considered outcomes emphasising collective responsibility, transparency, clarity and integrity.
Internal review The most significant issue arising from the 2013 review surrounded the importance of Chairman and Senior Independent Director succession planning and the preservation of the Groups positive culture during such a transition in these roles.
In addition, the Board recognises the importance of the non-executive Directors investing sufficient time to enable them to operate with a sound knowledge of both the Company and to establish relationships with the executive Directors.
To address the above points, the appointment of Paul Walker and the extension of Stephen Pettits appointment serve to ensure continuity and that an appropriate transition process is undergone with the aim of preserving the Groups culture while permitting healthy reection on our current structure and processes.
Stephen Pettit will remain on the Board until such time as his experience of Halmas culture is embodied in his colleagues.
The Board and Executive Board have also introduced more opportunities for interaction around topics of strategic and operational importance.
July October November AGM Strategy 3-year plan Half-yearly results AGM trading update IMS Relative attractions of different sectors PSP vesting update Environmental policy annual approval Candidates for acquisition disposal Consideration of Board Evaluation and target setting process Internal External review Review progress towards annual PSP awards objectives SIP award consideration External sum of the parts valuation Debt capital structure considerations Update on FTSE position Succession planning update management bench Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board governance structure Board Key committees Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Other committees Bank Guarantees Acquisitions Share Plans and Facilities and Disposals Committee Committee Committee Committees of the Board the new reporting sectors was detailed and the Groups mergers and Our Committees are a valuable part of the Companys corporate acquisitions performance was reviewed.
In April 2013, approximately 40 of Halmas major shareholders were also invited to HITE so they governance structure.
The workload of the Committees includes the could better understand Halmas culture, strategy and our operating table of scheduled meetings as well as ad hoc meetings and companies products and markets.
The occasion also afforded both communications frequently requiring considerable amounts of time.
members of the Board and major shareholders the opportunity to Halma has six committees and sub-committees of the Board: the develop a better mutual understanding of one anothers views.
The Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration content of presentations to shareholders and analysts at results Committee, the Share Plans Committee, the Bank Guarantees and announcements and all announcements are available on the Group Facilities Committee and the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee.
Each of these Committees has terms of reference which have been The Group website also contains electronic versions of the latest recently reviewed and approved by the Board, copies of which are Annual Report and Accounts, Half-Year Reports, biographical available on the website or on request from the Company Secretary.
information on Directors and the Executive Board, share price Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Directors information, and full subsidiary company contact details as well as and the Chairmen of each of the three key Board Committees, the links to their own websites.
The website also features the facility to Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, provide regular request e-mail alerts relating to announcements made by the Group updates to the Board.
and there is a feedback form to invite suggestions for improvements to the website and our investor relations activities.
A chart setting out the Companys Board and Committees structure is given above with the Board and Committee memberships and Shareholders can keep up to date with the latest Halma financial Directors biographical details shown separately on pages 60 and 61. news, on the move, with our Investor Relations iPad app.
This is The responsibilities of the key Board Committees and the key issues available as a free download from the Apple iTunes store, as detailed and activities during 2012 13 are set out in the following Committee below.
The app is updated at the same time as our website and reports on pages 70 to 82. delivers news releases, regulatory announcements, presentations, reports, webcasts, videos, financial documents and the share price.
Investor relations The Board recognises the importance of effective communication To help investors understand the scope of our business we have with our shareholders.
In regular meetings with shareholders and produced a new Introduction to Halma animated video.
This can be analysts the Chief Executive and Finance Director communicate viewed from the home page of our website www.
com and the Groups strategy and results, disclosing such information as is from our iPad investor app.
permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
Such meetings Type this link into your browser to go to the Halma Investor Relations ensure that institutional shareholders representing over 50% of the app download page on iTunes: Companys issued share capital meet or hold discussions with the Company on a regular basis.
Major shareholders are also offered http: goo.
gl 4W91y the opportunity to meet the Chairman and or Senior Independent or scan this QR code: Director.
Notes from all investor meetings are circulated to the Chairman with investor feedback results from roadshows circulated to the whole Board.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general meeting where they can gain a better understanding of the Company.
Shareholders are able to pose questions to the Board on the matters put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and the management of the Company.
Major shareholders are also invited to briengs following the half-year and annual results.
In February 2013, the Chief Executive, Finance Director and a Divisional Chief Executive held a Capital Markets Day at which an update on the Groups strategy and The Financial calendar is set out on page 146.
68 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Business review 10-59 Go Gov five ern rnan anc ce e 60 60- -8 86 6 Financial statements 87-147 Internal control Shareholders number at 16 May 2013 The Board has overall responsibility to the shareholders for the Groups system of internal control and risk management, and the 1-5,000 76.6% review of the systems effectiveness has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against material 5,001-25,000 14.5% misstatements or loss, this system is designed to identify and 25,001-100,000 4.5% manage those risks that could adversely impact the achievement of the Groups objectives.
The Groups risk management structure and 100,001-750,000 3.1% process is detailed on pages 51 and 52.
The Groups principal risks 750,001 and over 1.3% and uncertainties are detailed on pages 53 to 55.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process has been reviewed by the Board and the Board is satisfied that the Group accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board made several enhancements in the conduct of the process during the year and will Analysis of shares number at 16 May 2013 continue to review the system routinely to ensure that the system of internal control and risk management remains t for purpose.
1-5,000 1.8% The Groups external auditors, Deloitte LLP, have audited the financial 5,001-25,000 2.4% statements and have reviewed the internal financial control systems to 25,001-100,000 3.6% the extent they consider necessary to support their audit report.
100,001-750,000 15.0% Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the main trends and 750,001 and over 77.2% factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, and the financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, are set out in the Business Review.
In addition, note 26 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to currency and Results of our 2012 AGM liquidity risks.
Total Total The Group has considerable financial resources including a 260m votes votes Votes five-year revolving credit facility, of which 105m was undrawn at for against withheld 30 March 2013 together with contracts with a diverse range of % % % customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and 1 Report and Accounts 99.7 0.0 0.3 industries.
No one customer accounts for more than 2% of Group 2 Dividend 99.7 0.0 0.3 turnover.
The Directors have considered the Groups potential exposure to the Eurozone crisis and have concluded that this is 3 Remuneration Report 98.2 0.3 1.5 minimal due to the fact that less than 5% of sales arise in areas 413 Directors 96.3 to 99.6 0.13 to 3.39 0.8 experiencing macro-economic uncertainty and the Group does not maintain significant banking or other business relationships in these 14 Reappointment of Auditors 99.7 0.0 0.3 areas.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well 13 Auditors remuneration 99.6 0.1 0.3 placed to manage its business risks successfully.
16 Authority to allot shares 99.2 0.5 0.3 After conducting a formal review of the Groups financial resources, 17 Disapplication of the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company pre-emption rights 99.6 0.1 0.3 and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue 18 Authority to purchase own shares 99.6 0.1 0.3 to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
19 Notice of general meetings 94.7 5.0 0.3 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69
