OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The remit of the Audit Committee is summarised below and is detailed in full in its terms of reference, a copy of which is available on the Companys website hays.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Consider the appropriateness of the Companys financial statements and, other than quarterly trading statements, examine formal announcements relating to its financial performance including any significant judgements: Recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders, the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external Auditor: Monitor the relationship with the Companys external Auditor, including consideration of fees, audit scope and terms of engagement: Review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit and the Auditors independence: On engagement of the external Auditor, review the policy for the provision of non-audit services and monitor compliance: Monitor and review the Companys internal control and risk Informed, diligent and probing, the Audit management systems: Committee remains focused on high-quality Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys oversight.
Internal Audit function: and Ensure compliance with laws, regulations, ethical and other DEAR SHAREHOLDER issues, including that the Company maintains suitable Strong governance is a key feature of the way Hays manages its arrangements for employees to raise concerns in confidence.
business and risks, with the Audit Committee playing a central role in the governance process.
Audit Committee members The Audit Committee supports the Board in meeting its The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from its independent responsibilities in relation to the integrity of the Groups financial non-executive directors, all of whom are nancially literate.
The names statements and the effectiveness of internal control systems.
These and qualications of the Committees current members are set out in primary objectives were met through consideration and review of the directors biographies on pages 50 and51.
the full year and half year results and through review of the work of Internal Audit and other assurance providers.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and its financial expert, Victoria Jarman, is a Chartered Accountant, who also currently sits During the 2013 financial year, the Committee has, amongst other on the Audit Committee of fide la Rue plc.
Paul Stoneham resigned matters, focused on the continuous improvement of its enterprise as a member of the Audit Committee at the same time as he retired risk management framework against the backdrop of Hays growing from the Board on 7 November 2012.
Torsten Kreindl was appointed international business and with the clear aim of embedding this at a to the Audit Committee upon joining the main Board as a Director.
Hays is making sure it will be well placed to meet the challenges and opportunities it faces in an increasingly global Meetings environment.
The Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities through a series of scheduled meetings during the year, the agenda of which is VICTORIA JARMAN linked to events in the financial calendar of the Company.
The Audit Audit Committee Chairman Committee met four times during the financial year and attendance at those meetings is set out in the corporate governance section 29 August 2013 of this Report.
The Audit Committee commissions reports, either from external advisers, the Head of Internal Audit, or Group management, as required, to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller attend its meetings, as do the external Auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, both of whom have the opportunity to meet privately with the Audit Committee Chairman, in the absence of Group management.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive are also invited to attend Audit Committee meetings.
60 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED transitional guidelines, the Audit Committee has resolved that MAIN AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING THE a full tender of the Companys external audit contract will take FINANCIAL YEAR place following the 2016 year end results, which is when the tenure, , .
of the current Audit Partner at Deloitte comes to an end.
Any recommendation for the appointment of the external Auditor !2%!3!
1 % 0% will continue to be the subject of rigorous review each year.
1 %0 Auditor independence and non-audit services policy The Audit Committee believes that the issue of non-audit services, , .
%0 % # to Hays is closely related to external Auditor independence and !2%!3!
The Committee recognises that the independence of the 1 %0.
external Auditor may reasonably be expected to be compromised if they also act as the Companys consultants and advisers.
that, the Audit Committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit %0 !!
% ' nature is best undertaken by the external Auditor.
on this, the Audit Committee has adopted a policy to ensure that the 1 %0.
0 provision of any non-audit services by Deloitte does not impair its independence or objectivity.
"1 %0""1 0% The key features of the non-audit services policy are as follows: !2%!3!"
0 The provision of non-audit services provided by the Companys.. %!
external Auditor be limited to a value of one times the prior years.
0 Any non-audit project work which could impair the objectivity or !2%!3!
independence of the external Auditor may not be awarded to the external Auditor: and !
Delegated authority by the Audit Committee for the approval of non-audit services by the external Auditor is as follows: !
0 Authoriser Value of services per non-audit project Group Financial Controller Up to 25,000 Group Finance Director Up to 150,000 Annual Report review Audit Committee Above 150,000 %0% 0 %0 3. '
Deloitte LLPs fee in respect of its 2012 financial year audit of Hays !,.
Accordingly, the maximum value of non-audit 3$ !0$!
services that Deloitte LLP could have been engaged by Hays to, .
provide during the financial year 2013 was 0.8 million.
0!#5 audit fee for non-audit services provided by Deloitte during the 2013 financial year was 0.6 million 2012: 0.2 million.
The main External Auditor components of the 0.6 million non-audit services were as follows: 0$0$!
Taxation advice in three main areas: namely a global transfer !40!.
pricing and documentation review: 0.1 million: simplifying the tax 0$ 00$!
5 structure following the resolution of a series of legacy tax issues 2!5!.
abroad: 0.1 million: and country tax advice in CE&RoW non-UK: 0$!.
1 0 No single non-audit project undertaken by Deloitte during the 2013 1.
The Company did not pay any, .
0% non-audit fees to Deloitte on a contingent basis.
5 fees paid to the external Auditor is set out in note 6 to the 5!.
Having reviewed Hays non-audit services policy this year, the Audit Committee is satisfied that adequate procedures are in place to safeguard the external Auditors objectivity and independence.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 61 Effectiveness of the external Auditor Anti-bribery and corruption Under the guidance of the Audit Committee Chairman, a formal Hays has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
review of Deloittes performance and effectiveness was conducted The Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy with specic by the Audit Committee.
This involved a formal paper-based reference to the Bribery Act is issued to all employees, with training appraisal, discussions with the Group Finance Director and Group provided in the local language and concentrated in particular in Financial Controller, a review of Deloittes independence and high-risk countries in which Hays operates.
The Committee reviewed objectivity as previously described and an assessment of Deloittes the effectiveness of the policy during the year and concluded that it fullment of the agreed audit plan.
Improvements in country-specic was sufficient for managing the anti-bribery and corruption risks audits were noted.
The Audit Committee concluded that Deloitte faced by the Group.
had carried out its obligations as external Auditor to the Group in an effective and appropriate manner.
Following on from this review, Audit Committee effectiveness the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte The Audit Committee considered its effectiveness in discharging be reappointed as external Auditor to the Group.
its duties during the year.
The Committee looked at the work it had carried out during the year and considered that its performance Risk management and internal control during the year was effective when measured against its terms During the financial year, the Audit Committee reviewed the of reference and general audit committee best practice.
Details adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control of the main activities of the Audit Committee and its role and procedures and risk management systems.
This was largely done responsibilities have been detailed earlier in this Report.
through the work of the Internal Audit team.
The Audit Committee considered the Groups risk assessment process which included The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at this years coverage across the business and regions within which the Group AGM to answer any questions on the work of the AuditCommittee.
operates, the effectiveness of the risk methodology employed and the risk mitigation measures implemented.
Internal Audit The Audit Committee oversees the work of Internal Audit which reviews key controls throughout the Group on a rolling basis.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit Committee, and meets regularly with both the Committee and its Chairman without the presence of management to consider the work of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee approved the programme of internal audit work in respect of the 2013 financial year, aimed at addressing both financial and overall risk management objectives across the Group.
28 internal audit reviews were undertaken during the year, the findings of which were reported to the Management Board and Audit Committee thereafter.
Implementation of Audit Committee recommendations were subsequently tracked and progress was reported back to the Audit Committee.
No significant weaknesses were identied as a result of risk management and internal control reviews undertaken by Internal Audit during the reporting period.
The Audit Committee believes that the Groups enterprise risk management framework needs to evolve further in line with the growth of Hays business around the world.
Accordingly, throughout the financial year, the Internal Audit team has been working with Hays operating companies across the globe to further enhance and embed the enterprise risk management framework at a local level.
Raising Concerns at Work Throughout the year, a whistleblowing procedure titled Raising Concerns at Work has been in place across the Group.
This allows employees to condentially raise any concerns about business practices through a third party.
Disclosures under these arrangements are investigated promptly by Internal Audit and escalated to the Management Board and Audit Committee as appropriate, with follow-up action being taken as soon as practicable thereafter.
As part of its overall review of the Groups system of internal control, the Audit Committee reviewed these procedures during the reporting period, and is satisfied that they are appropriate to the size and scale of the Group.
