OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 57 NOMIN ATION COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The role of the Nomination Committee is summarised below and detailed in full in its terms of reference, a copy of which is available on the Companys website hays.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: Review the structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and balance of executive and non-executive directors of the Board and its Committees and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: Consider succession planning for directors and other senior executives: Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies: and Keep under review the time commitment expected from the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER In todays global business environment, The work of the Nomination Committee in the past year has been sustainable success is driven to a large degree focused on maintaining a balance of experienced directors and refreshing the Board to ensure a continuous infusion of new ideas.
by the talent, vision and leadership capabilities of the Board.
The aim has been to ensure that the Board can serve the current and future needs of the business in the ever-changing environment in which it operates.
Our efforts in the past year have been concentrated on identifying candidates who understand the impact of technology on our business.
The Nomination Committee identied and recommended the appointment of Torsten Kreindl as a new director for his experience in social media and digital communication.
We are delighted in welcoming him to the Board.
In leading the search and recommendation of new directors, the Nomination Committee works on the key principle that Board appointments will be made on merit, in line with our current and future requirements.
The Nomination Committee recognises the benefit of diversity and provided we remain true to our key principle, we will aim to build on our existing diverse composition in the future.
Further non-executive appointments to the Board remain underconsideration.
ALAN THOMSON Nomination Committee Chairman 29 August 2013 58 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Nomination Committee members Succession planning The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board.
It is chaired A key task of the Nomination Committee is to review the Companys by the Chairman of the Board and comprises the non-executive succession plans for members of the Board.
During the 2013 financial directors, all of whom are independent, save for the Chairman who year the Committee has focused on the following matters: was independent on appointment.
The names and qualications of Executive succession planning, with particular focus on countrythe Committees current members are set out in the directors specic business leadership: and biographies on pages 50 and 51.
Board succession planning with a view to implementing a phased Paul Stoneham resigned as a member of the Nomination Committee approach to refreshing the Board over the next two years, aimed at the same time as he retired from the Board on 7 November 2012. at balancing Board evolution with stability.
Torsten Kreindl was appointed to the Nomination Committee upon joining the main Board as a director on 1 June 2013.
Board appointment criteria are considered automatically as part of the Nomination Committees approach on succession planning.
Meetings The Nomination Committee believes that limited tenure and the The Nomination Committee met three times during the year and subsequent enforced retirement of directors is not always attendance at those meetings is set out in the corporate governance appropriate for sound business leadership.
Accordingly, matters section of this Report.
Other regular attendees at Committee of director tenure are viewed on a case-by-case basis.
meetings include the Company Secretary and, on invitation, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
At present, the Board has not set any specic aspirations in respect of gender diversity though it believes that refreshment of the Board should take into account the need to consider diversity in all forms.
MAIN NOMINATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR Tenure of non-executive directors Led the process for the appointment of a new non-executive Appointments to the Board are made on the basis of three-year director: terms and are ordinarily limited to three terms in office.
Hays currently has three long-tenured non-executive directors, namely Reviewed the composition of the Board and its Committees: and William Eccleshare, Paul Harrison and Richard Smelt.
At the time of the 2013 AGM, these directors will have served on the Hays plc Board Considered and recommended the election and re-election of for more than six years.
With this in mind, Board succession and each director as appropriate, at the AGM.
composition remains a priority for the coming year as the Board executes its succession plan.
Continuity at Board level is considered important during this time.
Non-executive director appointment process Last year, it was reported to shareholders that the Nomination William Eccleshare has been an effective non-executive director Committee had identied the need for greater technology and of Hays for many years and is approaching his ninth anniversary of international business experience at Board level.
With these service on the Board.
He continues to provide valuable leadership criteria in mind, Hays secured the services of Torsten Kreindl for Hays and his long ties with the Company provide useful context as an independent non-executive director.
and corporate memory for the Board.
On behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee has used its judgement and discretion to The search process for new non-executive directors involved the determine that William Eccleshare remains fully independent of Nomination Committee determining appointment criteria in the first character and judgement notwithstanding his length of service, instance and then utilising the services of Egon Zehnder and Russell and has no material conicts of interest that may interfere in his Reynolds, both reputable executive search rms, to identify potential ability to act in the best interests of the Company.
A long list of potential appointees was considered and candidates were shortlisted for interview based upon their fullment Activities during the year of the appointment criteria.
The Committee then recommended The biographical details of the current directors can be found the appointment of three possible candidates to the Board for on pages 50 and 51.
Having reviewed their independence and appointment.
Torsten Kreindl emerged as the preferred candidate contribution, the Nomination Committee confirms that the and was subsequently appointed by the Board.
Care was taken to performance of each of the directors standing for election or ensure that all proposed candidates had sufficient time available re-election at the 2013 AGM, continues to be effective and to devote to the role and did not have any conicts of interest.
demonstrates commitment to their roles, including independence of judgement, commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
Accordingly, the Nomination Committee has recommended to the Board that all current directors of the Company be proposed for election or re-election, as appropriate, at the forthcoming AGM.
