52 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Re-election of Directors at the 2013 AGM Hays plc is committed to the principles of corporate governance In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code the principles of the Code, all Directors of the Company will offer as issued by the Financial Reporting Council and publicly available themselves for either election or re-election at the 2013 Annual at www.
As a listed company, Hays is required to report on General Meeting.
Having received advice from the Nomination how it has complied with the principles of the Code and this is set out Committee, the Board is satisfied that each director is qualied below.
The Board is pleased to report that Hays has complied with all for election or re-election by virtue of their skills, experience of the provisions of the Code throughout the year under review.
and commitment to the Board.
THE HAYS BOARD OPERATIONAL GOVERNANCE Composition of the Board The Management Board The Board of Hays is currently made up of two executive directors The main executive committee within Hays corporate governance and seven non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Six of framework is the Management Board.
The Management Board is the non-executive directors served throughout the reporting period.
chaired by the Chief Executive, who is also a main Board director, Their biographies, including prior experience, are set out on pages and its main purpose is to assist him in running the business of the 50 and 51.
The Management Board meets formally on a monthly basis though there is close collaboration by its members in between Hays Group policy is to hire the best candidates for all positions at these meetings.
all levels throughout the business, irrespective of gender, including candidates at Board level.
With two female independent nonThe Management Board includes the Group Finance Director, the executive directors, namely Victoria Jarman and Pippa Wicks, 22% Company Secretary & General Counsel, the Group HR Director, the of the current Board is female.
At present, the Board has not set any Group Marketing Director, the Group Technology Director and the specic aspirations in respect of gender diversity at Board level.
Managing Directors of the Groups main operating regions.
Each However, the Board recognises the benets of gender diversity Management Board member has a clearly dened remit, business and will continue to ensure that this is taken into account when objectives and financial budget within which they operate.
Hays global business comprises three separate regions, namely Board changes during the year UK & Ireland, Continental Europe & RoW and Asia Pacic APAC.
Board composition is routinely reviewed to ensure that the balance Regional Managing Directors operate their business through regional of skills, knowledge and experience of the Hays Board remains boards, which comprise key business and functional managers with appropriate to its business.
The composition of the Hays Board has specic responsibilities within those regions.
Autonomy within the evolved during the past year.
Paul Stoneham retired from the Board framework of the Groups delegated authorities and internal controls at the 2012 Annual General Meeting and Torsten Kreindl joined the is afforded as far as practicable.
With the increasing importance of social media and digital communication to the Companys business, Torsten LEADERSHIP Kreindls valuable experience in these elds is a welcome addition The role of the Board to the Board.
The role of the Board is to provide leadership of the Company and direction for management.
It is collectively responsible and accountable to the Companys shareholders for the long-term success of the Group.
The Board sets the Companys strategic DIRECTORS TENURE AS AT 30 JUNE 2013 MALE FEMALE DIRECTORS 2 yrs 9 mths Alan Thomson 5 yrs 10 mths Male 77.8% Alistair Cox 7 yrs 2 mths Female 22.2% Paul Venables 6 yrs 2 mths Paul Harrison EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 8 yrs 7 mths William Eccleshare 1 yr 9 mths Victoria Jarman Executive 22.2% 5 yrs 8 mths Richard Smelt Non-Executive 77.8% 1 yr 6 mths Pippa Wicks 1 mth Torsten Kreindl OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 53 objectives and determines the significant risks that it is willing to take that each non-executive director remained independent of to meet those objectives.
It ensures that the necessary financial and management and free from any relationship that could interfere human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All of Hays and reviews managements performance in regard to achieving directors are believed to act in the best interests of the Company.
Chairman and Chief Executive Much of Hays success is due to its entrepreneurial culture which Alan Thomson is the Chairman of Hays and Alistair Cox is the Board has tried to engender by establishing a core set of values its Chief Executive.
Their partnership is a complementary and which it adheres to and promotes throughout the Group.
These are compatible one, based on mutual trust and regular contact.
There is being Ambitious, being Passionate about People, being Expert at a clear division of responsibilities between their roles.
The Chairman what they do and being Inquisitive about the world of work.
presides over the Board, whilst the Chief Executive has the ultimate executive responsibility for running the Companys business.
This Role of the non-executive directors separation of roles enhances the independent oversight of executive Hays non-executive directors have a mix of business skills, management by the Board and more closely aligns the Board with knowledge and experience acquired across sectors and the world.
It also means that no one individual within the This allows them to provide a strong, independent and external Company has unfettered powers of decision-making.
In turn, this leads to a diversity of views being aired at Board meetings, robust and constructive debate Senior Independent Director and optimal decision-making.
At the same time, it also reduces the Paul Harrison was appointed by the Board as its Senior Independent likelihood of any one perspective from unduly prevailing.
His role is designed to give comfort to fellow directors and shareholders that there is a director on the A key role of the non-executive directors is to scrutinise the Board to whom they can turn if ever they have concerns about executive management in meeting agreed objectives and to monitor the way the Board is being run which they cannot address with the reporting of performance.
They also ensure that financial controls the Chairman.
Whilst there were no requests from directors or and systems of risk management are both rigorous and appropriate shareholders for access to the Senior Independent Director during for the needs of the business.
the year, the role serves as an important check and balance in Hays governance process.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors, including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
During the year, the Board considered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, save for the Chairman who was deemed independent by the Board at the date of his appointment.
In doing so, it took advice from the Nomination Committee and concluded KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE Alan Thomson Alistair Cox !
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR COMPANY SECRETARY & GENERAL COUNSEL Paul Harrison Doug Evans 0% # 1 % #.
0 54 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT C ONTINUED BOARD EFFECTIVENESS All Board directors have access to Doug Evans, the Company Matters reserved for the Board Secretary, who advises them on Board and governance matters.
The decisions taken by the Board largely relate to matters The Chairman and the Company Secretary work together to ensure of governance and business where independence from executive that brieng papers submitted to the Board are clear, accurate and management is important.
These decisions are detailed in a schedule timely, and of sufficient quality to enable the Board to discharge its of matters reserved for the Board, which can be found on the duties.
As well as the support of the Company Secretary, there is a Companys website, and include the following: procedure in place for any director to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties, Approving financial results and other financial, corporate and where considered necessary.
governance matters: Approving material contracts: Board attendance The Board met a total of eight times during the year.
Seven of these Approving Group strategy: times were at scheduled Board meetings and the eighth was at an Approving appointments to the Board: annual Strategy Review with the Management Board being present.
Approving and recommending dividends as appropriate Five scheduled Board meetings were held in the UK and one in each and deciding dividend policy: of Belgium and Australia.
No ad hoc Board meetings were held during the year under review.
Reviewing material litigation: Approving major capital projects, acquisitions and disposals: Board and Committee attendance for scheduled meetings during Reviewing annually the effectiveness of internal control and the the year under review are shown below.
nature and extent of significant risks identied by management BOARD ATTENDANCE and associated mitigation strategies: and Audit Nomination Remuneration Approving the annual budget.
Board Committee Committee Committee Alan Thomson 7 of 7 3 of 3 Board decisions are usually by consensus at Board meetings.
On Alistair Cox 7 of 7 occasion, decisions may be taken by a majority of Board members.
1 William Eccleshare 6 of 7 3 of 4 2 of 3 5 of 5 In the case of an equality of votes, Hays Articles of Association do Paul Harrison 7 of 7 4 of 4 3 of 3 5 of 5 not provide the Chairman with a second or casting vote.
Victoria Jarman 7 of 7 4 of 4 3 of 3 5 of 5 Board commitment Richard Smelt 7 of 7 4 of 4 3 of 3 5 of 5 The Board has established a policy permitting its executive directors 2 Paul Stoneham 3 of 4 2 of 2 1 of 2 2 of 2 to hold only one external non-executive directorship or FTSE Paul Venables 7 of 7 Chairmanship, subject to any possible conict of interest.
This 3 Pippa Wicks 7 of 7 3 of 4 3 of 3 5 of 5 ensures that executive directors retain sufficient time for and focus 4 on the Companys business, whilst allowing them to gain external Torsten Kreindl 0 of 0 0 of 0 0 of 0 0 of 0 Board exposure as part of their leadership development.
Executive 1 William Eccleshare was unavailable for one Board meeting, one Audit Committee directors are permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting during the year due to prior Details of fees received by each of the executive directors for the business obligations.
year ended 31 March 2013 are shown below: 2 Paul Stoneham was unavailable for one Board meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting held during the year prior to his resignation on 7 November Director Fee External appointment 2012.
This was due to prior business engagements.
3 Pippa Wicks was unavailable for one Audit Committee meeting during the year due Alistair Cox 65,000 3i plc to prior business obligations.
Paul Venables 53,000 Wincanton plc 4 No Board meetings were held between the date of Torsten Kreindls appointment to the Board on 1 June 2013 and the year end 30 June 2013.
Whilst the Company does not have a similar policy for non-executive directors, their key external commitments are reviewed each year to Board induction and development ensure that they too have sufficient time commitment for the fullment On appointment, each director takes part in a tailored induction of their Board responsibilities.
Key external commitments of the programme which is designed to give him or her an understanding Board are included within their biographies on pages 50and 51. of the Companys business, governance and stakeholders.
Elements of the programme include: Information and support Senior management briengs to provide a business overview, The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board forms the current trading conditions and strategic commercial issues: basis of its agenda each year.
The Board meets regularly throughout the Meetings with the Companys key advisers and major year and agrees a forward calendar of matters that it wishes shareholders, where necessary: to discuss at each meeting.
Standing items, including operational, functional and financial reviews, and Committee updates are Business site visits across regions: considered at each scheduled Board meeting, with unplanned items A legal and regulatory brieng on the duties of directors of listed such as commercial or property-related decisions being considered companies: as and when required.
Details of the Group corporate structure, Board and Committee structures and arrangements and key policies and procedures: and The latest statutory financial reports and management accounts.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 55 BOARD FOCUS DURING 2013 WHAT THE BOARD HAS DONE IN THE YEAR Developing a successful strategy Ensuring appropriate financial management Implementing governance and ethics and Regularly received reports on the Groups strategic Regularly received reports on the Groups financial monitoring risk performance.
Performed the annual review of the effectiveness of internal control and the nature and extent of risks Attended a Strategy Review, with the members Approved financial announcements identied together with mitigation plans.
of the Management Board, at which key strategic for publication.
Reviewed regular reports on legal and compliance Approved the annual budget.
matters from the Company Secretary.
Visited operations in Singapore, Australia and Approved dividend payments and recommendations Belgium during which presentations were given Reviewed Board and Committee effectiveness.
by the senior management team on performance Reviewed and approved changes to the terms Engaging with advisers and opportunities.
of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Met with the Companys financial advisers and Reviewed the operations and strategy plans for each Remuneration Committees.
Reviewed the Companys compliance with the Code.
Motivating employees Engaging with investors Building strong leaders Considered the results from TALKback, the Received regular updates on views and concerns Considered the tools employed in the leadership Groups employee engagement survey.
Considered the Companys investor relations Reviewed the Groups succession plans and strategy.
Good governance requires directors to keep abreast of changes in Based on the Board evaluation report, the directors are satisfied the business and the legal and regulatory environment in which it that the Board works well and operates effectively in an environment operates.
The Chairman, with aid from the Company Secretary, where there is constructive challenge from the non-executive ensures that updates are incorporated into the annual agenda of directors.
They are also satisfied with the contribution made by the Boards activities.
As well as an annual seminar conducted by their colleagues and that all the Committees operate properly and the Companys main corporate lawyers and external auditor on latest efficiently.
The report noted in particular the executive directors developments in their elds, relevant update sessions are included in constructive and transparent approach to supporting the work the Boards strategy meetings.
The Company Secretary presents a of the Board: the quality of information provision: the commitment regular corporate governance report to the Board, together with any of the directors: the effectiveness of the Chairman and the steps relevant technical directives issued by the Companys auditor.
In this taken to adjust the composition of the Board.
way, each director keeps their skills and knowledge current so they remain competent in fullling their role both on the Board and on Specic actions will be implemented during the 2014 financial year any Committee of which they are a member.
and those include: Further developing the Boards approach to helping the Chief Board evaluation Executive ensure that the long-term strategic development of During the 2013 financial year the Board assessed its own the business is sound in the context of market and technological effectiveness through an external Board evaluation.
changes and the Companys extensive international operations: Increasing the directors focus on talent management and Additionally the Chairman held meetings with the non-executive succession planning: and directors to appraise their individual performance.
In the same spirit, the Senior Independent Director met with his fellow non-executive An increased focus on the risk strategy and monitoring of risk directors without the Chairman being present to appraise the exposures.
We will report progress in implementing the above action points The external Board evaluation exercise was conducted by in our next Annual Report.
Independent Audit Limited, a company which specialises in board effectiveness reviews and corporate governance: they have no other Conicts of interest connection with Hays.
Independent Audit Limited observed a Board The Companys current procedure for authorising conicts of meeting, reviewed Board papers and had in-depth individual interests involves: discussions with all directors, members of the Management Board, i Ad hoc notications to the Company Secretary in respect of the lead external audit partner and the adviser to the Remuneration any new or changes to existing conicts of interest or duties: Committee.
They presented their findings to the Board at a scheduled meeting in August 2013. ii New conicts being put to the Board for review and, if appropriate, authorised at the Board meeting following The evaluation involved assessing the many different factors which disclosure: inuence the effectiveness of the Board and its work including the t iii An annual review by the Company Secretarial department of its skills set with the business strategy and operations, the support of the conicts that have been disclosed to ensure any prior from management, the quality of information provision, discussion authorisations remain accurate: of strategy issues, its approach to risk management, performance iv A n annual declaration by each director that their notied monitoring and the Chairmans performance.
The evaluation conicts and related authorisations have not operated against included a review of the Committees.
the Companys interests: and v A n annual review by the Board as to how the arrangements have operated during the financial year.
56 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT C ONTINUED Each director has reviewed the procedures for authorising conicts ACCOUNTABILITY as outlined above and each has confirmed that authorisations Risk management and internal control relating to them have not operated against the Companys interests The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control during the financial year.
systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
This has been designed to assist the Board in making better, more risk-informed, strategic The Board considers these arrangements to be working effectively.
decisions with a view to creating and protecting shareholder value.
In practice, the Board delegates the task of implementing the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Boards policy on risk and control to management.
Further support Engagement with investors and assistance is provided by an independent Internal Audit function, Responsibility for shareholder relations rests with the Chairman, details of which are provided in the Audit Committee Report.
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
They ensure that there is effective communication with shareholders on matters such as The Management Board has implemented an enterprise risk governance and strategy, and are responsible for ensuring that the management system which allows for a holistic, top-down and Board understands the views of major shareholders on matters such bottom-up view of key risks facing the business.
These are recorded as governance and strategy.
in a Group risk register, which is reviewed at least twice yearly by the Management Board and submitted to the Board thereafter to enable The Companys investor relations programme is supported by a it to carry its risk oversight responsibility.
This exercise involves a designated Investor Relations team, which acts as the primary point current and forward look at various risks affecting the business and of contact with the investor community and is responsible for prioritising them according to risk magnitude and likelihood.
Risks managing ongoing relations with investors and shareholders.
The covered include operational, business and compliance risks as well Board receives regular reports from the Investor Relations team.
Mitigation procedures are put in place and Feedback from meetings held between executive management, or monitoring of these takes place on an ongoing basis.
The principal the Investor Relations team, and institutional shareholders is also risks currently facing the business are detailed in the Performance reported to the Board.
As a part of a comprehensive investor relations programme, formal The Board reviews the Group strategy and approves a Group meetings with investors are scheduled with investors and analysts budget for the organisation each year.
To ensure that performance to discuss the Groups interim and final results.
In the intervening of the business is in line with the plan, financial and operating periods, Hays continues its dialogue with the investor community reporting procedures are in place.
Comprehensive annual budgets by meeting key investor representatives, holding investor roadshows and forecasts are approved by the Management Board and business and participating in conferences.
Meetings with debt providers, divisions.
Monthly progress and variances are reported to the principally the Companys banks, also take place on a regular basis.
Management Board and subsequently to the Board at each meeting During the year, the executive directors and senior management as part of the control process.
Complementing these financial met with 330 shareholders and potential shareholders around the controls is a set of Group-wide policies and procedures addressing world.
Presentations to analysts are posted on the Companys non-quantiable risks.
These include the Groups Code of Conduct website at hays.
and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, and Whistleblowing arrangements.
The Board regularly receives management and As a reection of the success of Hays investor relations efforts, Committee reports which also form part of the internal controlsystem.
Hays came first in the 2013 Thomson Reuters Extel Survey 21 for best investor relations by a listed company in the European Support The Groups internal control procedures are subject to regular review Services category.
Hays Group Finance Director, Paul Venables, was and provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and ranked first and the Chief Executive, Alistair Cox, was ranked second managing significant risks.
This is in accordance with the Turnbull in a similar poll for best Chief Finance Officer and Chief Executive Guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Officer respectively.
The Board recognises that such a system has its limitations in that risk management requires independent judgement on the part Annual General Meeting of directors and executive management.
Internal controls are The Board uses the Companys AGM to communicate with investors designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to and welcomes their participation.
All shareholders are entitled to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and attend the AGM at which the Board members are present.
The Board not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
views the AGM as a good opportunity to meet with its smaller, private shareholders.
A summary presentation of results is given In accordance with its regulatory obligations, the Board, with the by the Chief Executive before the Chairman deals with the formal assistance of the Audit Committee, carried out an annual assessment business.
All shareholders present can question the Chairman, the of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal Chairmen of the Committees and the rest of the Board both during control system during the reporting period.
During the course of the meeting and informally afterwards.
its review, the Board did not identify or hear of any failings or weaknesses that it determined to be significant.
A conrmation The Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders of any necessary actions is therefore not provided.
at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Voting on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll.
The proxy votes cast, including details of votes withheld, are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results are published on our website and announced via the Regulatory News Service.
