O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Non-executive Directors of issues relating to the Board as a whole, the performance of the Chairman and the priority of tasks.
The Company has experienced Non-executive Directors on its Board.
The Board considers David Newlands, John Biles, David The process included the completion of a questionnaire by Lindsell and Tim Hancock to be independent as they are free from Directors and included an opportunity for each Director to make any business or other relationship which could materially influence comments.
The areas covered in the questionnaire were the their judgement and they represent a strong source of advice and Boards role and its organisation, the Board dynamic and independent challenge.
Alex Moss was appointed as a Nonrelationships, quality of information flows and decision making, executive Director on 19 February 2013.
Alex is a representative of Board committees, performance monitoring and the Boards Doughty Hanson & Co Managers Limited and is, therefore, not priority tasks.
The output was compiled into a report which was regarded as independent.
agreed with the Senior Independent Director, who led the evaluation process.
The report was subsequently discussed by Other than their fees which are disclosed on page 41, the the Board.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors received no remuneration from the Company during the year.
When Non-executive Directors Independent advice are considered for appointment, the Nominations Committee will take into account their other responsibilities in assessing whether Members of the Board may take independent professional advice they can commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship.
in the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary & Group Legal Training and information Counsel, the Companys legal advisers and external auditors.
All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers Internal control circulated in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at the meetings in addition to receiving minutes of previous The Companys corporate governance process is designed to meetings.
Their understanding of the Groups business is enhanced determine the nature and level of risk that the Group is willing to by business specific presentations and operational visits to the take in pursuit of its strategy and to ensure that any risks taken are Companys businesses.
Separate strategy meetings and meetings carefully considered by managers and that the system of internal with senior executives are also held throughout the year.
The system of internal control includes clear training needs of Directors and of members of the Boards operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated committees are formally considered on an annual basis and are authority.
The Company has in place internal control and risk also monitored throughout the year.
management systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting process and the Groups process for preparation Committees of consolidated accounts.
These systems include policies and procedures to facilitate the maintenance of records that accurately The Board has established Nominations, Audit and Remuneration and fairly reflect transactions, provide reasonable assurance that committees.
The memberships, roles and activities of these transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of committees are detailed in separate reports: Nominations financial statements in accordance with International Financial Committee on page 27, Audit Committee on pages 28 to 31 and Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU or UK Generally Remuneration Committee on pages 32 to 45.
Each Board Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate, and that require Committee has written terms of reference approved by the Board.
reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
Executive Committee Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the The Executive Committee is chaired by the Companys Chief Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the Executive and comprises the senior management team responsible normal management of the business, to monitor: for the day-to-day management of the business.
These are the strategic plan achievement: Chief Financial Officer: the Regional Managers of North America, South America, UK, EMEA and Asian: the Director of Sales & financial performance within a comprehensive financial Marketing for EMEA: the Group Business Development Manager: planning, accounting and reporting framework: the Managing Director of HT Data: and the Company Secretary & Group Legal Counsel.
The remit of the Executive Committee is to capital investment and asset management performance, with support the Chief Executive and facilitate the flow of information detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews: across all areas of the business and, as such, there are no written customer data and actions to evolve brands and products to terms of reference.
ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant: and risk management, through an ongoing process of regular Board effectiveness evaluation reports from the Groups senior managers, that the significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and It was not considered appropriate to use an external evaluator in appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, 2013, the year of the IPO.
Instead, the Board carried out an cost and opportunity.
internal formal Board Governance Assessment, including a review
