26 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report continued In addition, the Audit Committee receives: Directors indemnity reports from the Internal Audit Manager on the work carried As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company out under the annual internal audit plan: and purchases and maintains Directors and Officers insurance cover reports from the external auditors.
against certain legal liabilities and costs incurred by the Directors and Officers of the Group companies in the execution of their Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board, duties.
The Company also granted an indemnity to each of its through the Audit Committee, conducted a review of the Directors in accordance with Section 232 of the Companies Act effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year 2006 in relation to the Directors exercise of their powers, duties ended 31 December 2013.
The system of internal control is and responsibilities as Directors of the Company, save to the extent designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to that any such indemnity would be void under the Companies achieve business objectives and, as such, it can only provide Act 2006. reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion Corporate social responsibility of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this HellermannTyton is committed to responsible corporate behaviour status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
and the Board has established policies for the Group to ensure that it operates all aspects of the business in an ethical manner with consideration for employee health and safety, care for the Risk management financial risk management environment and community involvement.
These policies are set With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure out in more detail on pages 19 to 21. against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys with Refinancing guidance from an external independent body, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude On 26 February 2014, the Company signed a new 230.0 million of the risks involved.
revolving credit facility at Euribor 1.75% for a term of five years.
The new facility replaces the Groups existing 220.0 million senior Shareholder relations secured bonds Euribor 5.125% and an undrawn 80.0 million revolving credit facility.
It is expected that 200.0 million of the The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the new facility will be initially drawn down to repay the bonds with performance and activities of the Company.
The Company the balance of 20.0 million to be repaid using cash reserves.
It is formally updates the market on its financial performance at least anticipated that the bonds will be repaid on 28 March 2014. four times a year, at the half-year and full-year results in August The one-off costs of refinancing are 5.0 million, which includes and March respectively and the interim management statements the 1% redemption premium that will be paid to the bondholders.
The content of these updates is posted on The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and signed the Companys investor relations website, together with general on its behalf by: information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its major institutional shareholders which provides an David Newlands opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly available Chairman of the Board information, the progress of the business.
On a more informal basis, the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial 28 February 2014 Officer regularly report to the Board the views of major shareholders about the Company, and the Senior Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors are available to meet shareholders on request, and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Nominations Committee report Committee members Effectiveness The UK Corporate Governance Code provides that a majority of During this period in review, we have carried out an evaluation of the members of the Nominations Committee should be the terms of reference and effectiveness of the Committee independent Non-executive Directors.
The Nominations conducted via an internal evaluation process.
This process Committee comprises David Newlands, Tim Hancock, John Biles concluded that the Committee was effective in terms of its and David Lindsell, all of whom are considered by the Board to be expertise and use of time and that it had been provided with independent Non-executive Directors.
At the time of the IPO, sufficient resources to carry out its duties.
Succession planning and David Newlands was appointed as the Chairman of the Board and management development have been agreed as the priorities for also as Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Newlands will not chair the Nominations Committee when it is dealing with the matter of succession to the chairmanship of the David Newlands Company.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary of Chairman of the Nominations Committee the Committee.
28 February 2014 Role On behalf of the Board, the Nominations Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating and reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the size, structure and composition of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors, and will make appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
The Nominations Committee meets formally when appropriate.
Meetings Following the IPO, and as the Board of Directors was newly appointed, there has been no need for the Committee to meet on a formal basis.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend the meetings.
28 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Audit Committee report reviewing the effectiveness of systems of internal control and Membership management of risk, including approving statements concerning internal control and risk management in the Annual The members of the Audit Committee are John Biles Chairman, Report and Accounts: David Lindsell and Tim Hancock, all of whom are independent Non-executive Directors.
overseeing the relationships with the external auditors: I have been Chairman of the Audit Committee since I was making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointed as a Director of the Company on 22 February 2013. external auditors appointment, reappointment and removal at The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial the AGM and setting and approving policy on the engagement experience as I qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price of the external auditors for non-audit work: and Waterhouse & Co, served as a PLC Finance Director and have chaired the Audit Committee of several PLCs.
The Company assessing the performance and reviewing the scope, results and Secretary acts as Secretary of the Committee.
Committee meetings Key objectives The Committee met three times in 2013 and twice in February Our Committees objective is to provide effective governance 2014 and all members attended all meetings.
We also invited the over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, Chairman, the non-independent Non-executive Director, Chief including the adequacy of related disclosures, the management Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Business Development Manager, and oversight of the Groups system of internal control and Group Finance Manager and Internal Audit Manager to attend all business risks, and the performance of internal audit and the meetings.
Other appropriate people from the Group are also external auditors.
invited to attend certain meetings to provide a deeper level of insight into certain key issues.
I also invited our external auditors, Role and responsibilities  LLP, to each meeting.
The Committee met separately with the Internal Audit Manager and The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board and its  without management being present, terms of reference were approved at the time of the IPO, and have after the end of most meetings.
been reviewed since then to ensure that they continue to meet The Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors have direct best practice, and include all matters required by the Disclosure access to me as Chairman of the Committee and I had preparatory and Transparency Rules and the Code.
The Committees principal meetings with them prior to Committee meetings to review their responsibilities include: reports and discuss issues in detail.
monitoring the integrity and form and content of the financial statements including interim and annual reports, Main activities of the Committee during the year interim management statements, final and half-year results announcements and any other formal announcements As part of the process of working with the Board to carry out relating to financial performance: its responsibilities and to maximise effectiveness, meetings of the Committee generally take place just prior to Board meetings.
reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of our accounting I report to the Board as part of a separate agenda item on the policies and practices: activities of the Committee and matters of relevance.
advising the Board on whether the Committee believes that At its meetings, the Committee focused on the following the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, main areas: balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys strategy, business model and performance: O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Financial reporting Risk management The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting Senior management are responsible for ensuring that risk has been to review with management and the external auditors, management is integrated into all operations and functions.
the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial statements The Groups risk assessment process and the way that significant concentrating on, amongst other matters: business risks are managed and mitigated are key areas of focus for the Committee in each meeting.
Our work on risk was driven the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: by the Groups assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties as material areas where significant judgements have been applied set out in the Prospectus and on pages 17 and18.
At the last two or there has been a significant discussion with the external meetings, we reviewed a report from the Internal Audit Manager, auditors: who has primary responsibility for overseeing the implementation of the Groups risk management framework, which included the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial commentary on any changes to significant risks and mitigating reporting standards and relevant financial and governance actions compared with those identified in the Prospectus.
reporting requirements: and In the second half of the year, an exercise was undertaken to whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is standardise risk reporting throughout the Group and an updated fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information policy document was circulated to manufacturing operations.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys strategy, The Group risk register the register provides a consistent method business model and performance.
for managing and reporting risks across the Group and ensures Reports from management were considered on significant matters that significant risks are understood and visible to divisional and and also reports from the external auditors on the outcome of Group management, as well as to the Board.
The register sets out their reviews.
We challenged  to ensure the top risks as identified by divisional and corporate management.
that they had applied the necessary level of professional scepticism The Internal Audit Manager discussed risk with the local Managing in their work.
Directors and prioritised the top risks according to likelihood of occurrence and impact on performance, assets and the Groups The principal areas of judgement considered by us in relation to objectives.
The register, which also sets out mitigating controls and the 2013 accounts were as follows: actions and identifies management responsible for each risk, is Recoverability of debtors and inventory see Notes 10 and 11 reviewed and assessed twice each year by the Board and to the financial statements Committee.
We received reports on the ageing of trade debtor balances Internal control outstanding and reviewed subsequent collections, payment history and the historical levels of provisioning and were satisfied Reports were received from  on the that provisions were calculated on a basis consistent with prior Groups internal control environment at the time of the IPO.
years, took account of known problems with customers and are Changes and improvements to internal control are being reviewed adequate.
We received a report on inventories which confirmed as they are made.
the calculation of provisions for obsolete stock lines and any lines where holdings appeared excessive.
The basis of calculating The Groups internal control framework is based on managements inventory provisions is consistent with previous years and, based assessment of risk.
Effectiveness of internal control is monitored by on historic usage patterns, provisions are considered adequate: self-certification by local management, management oversight and independent review by Internal Audit.
Going concern The Committee also reviewed the arrangement which enables The validity of the going concern assumption used in employees to raise any concerns they may have, in confidence, preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed about possible wrongdoing, dishonest or unethical behaviour.
Appropriate downside sensitivity analysis has been whistle-blowing policy is in place for this purpose and the Code of applied to assumptions used in calculating the net debt profile, Conduct protects anyone who comes forward to make such committed facility headroom and financial covenants.
Should any disclosures be made, the Internal Audit reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources Manager, in consultation with me, will decide on the appropriate to continue in operational existence and method and level of investigation.
The Committee is notified of all Accounting policies and management representation disclosures, results of investigations and actions taken and has the power to conduct further enquiries itself or order additional actions The Committee approved the Groups accounting policies and as it sees fit.
also approved the representations made by management to the external auditors.
