Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 governance rePort governanCe in Hikma message from our cHairman Dear shareholders and stakeholders We are at a point of significant change in the leadership of our company.
Whilst the leadership is changing, we are doing this in a way that promotes continuity and ensures the people who are taking the company forward have a proven track record.
Having founded and been actively involved in the development of Hikma for many years, i have decided that it is time to step down and will be leaving the Board at the close of the agm.
i am delighted that i am handing over my responsibilities to the chief executive.
He and his very efficient team have significantly improved the business over the last seven years and are perfectly positioned to take it forward.
i will always have strong and emotional ties with the company and, in recognition of this, the Board have kindly asked me to take on the non-Board and largely ceremonial role of life President.
governance in Hikma contents i am delighted to be handing the chair to said Darwazah, who will be combining this 52 message from our chairman with his existing role of chief executive.
Whilst i recognise the governance implications of 53 Highlights of 2013 this appointment, we have fully explained our rationale and liaised with major shareholders 54 our Board before moving ahead.
i firmly believe it is the right move for Hikma to ensure its future success.
We need strong and experienced leadership, particularly because of the markets in which we 58 senior management operate and our young and entrepreneurial nature.
62 Board composition it is with great sadness that we are saying goodbye to sir David rowe-Ham this year.
63 chairman and ceo sir David has been a constant source of wisdom and guidance to Hikma as we have grown from 65 effectiveness listing in 2005 to the international group we are today.
We wouldnt have been able to go on 67 meetings this journey without him and our debt to him is too great to quantify.
sir David is and always will 69 Delegation be a great friend of mine and he will always be most welcome in Hikma.
robert Pickering, who joined us in 2011, has kindly agreed to take over from sir David as the senior independent Director and chairman of the nomination committee.
robert has forged strong links with the Board and management team over the past three years and has demonstrated sound and clear judgement.
He is well placed to take on the role.
i would also like to welcome Pat Butler to the Board, who has excellent financial and strategic experience and is an ideal candidate to continue our strong record in governance.
this is my final letter to you as chairman and i would like to take the opportunity to remind you how important excellent governance is to us as an organisation.
When you look at our Hikma emblem, you will see two words.
these are Quality and Hikma, which means Wisdom.
i chose these two words because i wanted them to underpin everything that we do.
Being wise and having high standards are, in essence, what good governance is all about.
it isnot about rushing or planning for the short-term, it is about making sure that the decisions we take today will benefit and keep Hikma strong in the long-term.
Whilst i am saying goodbye to you as shareholders and investors, my heart will always bewith Hikma.
i wish you all the very best for the future.
