Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 governance rePort governanCe in Hikma message from our cHairman Dear shareholders and stakeholders We are at a point of significant change in the leadership of our company.
Whilst the leadership is changing, we are doing this in a way that promotes continuity and ensures the people who are taking the company forward have a proven track record.
Having founded and been actively involved in the development of Hikma for many years, i have decided that it is time to step down and will be leaving the Board at the close of the agm.
i am delighted that i am handing over my responsibilities to the chief executive.
He and his very efficient team have significantly improved the business over the last seven years and are perfectly positioned to take it forward.
i will always have strong and emotional ties with the company and, in recognition of this, the Board have kindly asked me to take on the non-Board and largely ceremonial role of life President.
governance in Hikma contents i am delighted to be handing the chair to said Darwazah, who will be combining this 52 message from our chairman with his existing role of chief executive.
Whilst i recognise the governance implications of 53 Highlights of 2013 this appointment, we have fully explained our rationale and liaised with major shareholders 54 our Board before moving ahead.
i firmly believe it is the right move for Hikma to ensure its future success.
We need strong and experienced leadership, particularly because of the markets in which we 58 senior management operate and our young and entrepreneurial nature.
62 Board composition it is with great sadness that we are saying goodbye to sir David rowe-Ham this year.
63 chairman and ceo sir David has been a constant source of wisdom and guidance to Hikma as we have grown from 65 effectiveness listing in 2005 to the international group we are today.
We wouldnt have been able to go on 67 meetings this journey without him and our debt to him is too great to quantify.
sir David is and always will 69 Delegation be a great friend of mine and he will always be most welcome in Hikma.
robert Pickering, who joined us in 2011, has kindly agreed to take over from sir David as the senior independent Director and chairman of the nomination committee.
robert has forged strong links with the Board and management team over the past three years and has demonstrated sound and clear judgement.
He is well placed to take on the role.
i would also like to welcome Pat Butler to the Board, who has excellent financial and strategic experience and is an ideal candidate to continue our strong record in governance.
this is my final letter to you as chairman and i would like to take the opportunity to remind you how important excellent governance is to us as an organisation.
When you look at our Hikma emblem, you will see two words.
these are Quality and Hikma, which means Wisdom.
i chose these two words because i wanted them to underpin everything that we do.
Being wise and having high standards are, in essence, what good governance is all about.
it isnot about rushing or planning for the short-term, it is about making sure that the decisions we take today will benefit and keep Hikma strong in the long-term.
Whilst i am saying goodbye to you as shareholders and investors, my heart will always bewith Hikma.
i wish you all the very best for the future.
samih Darwazah, Chairman 52 corPorate governance THE BOARDS TIME Priorities in 2014 1.
Financial 19% f embedding the changes in the Board which are identified above 1 5 2.
Operational developments 23% f further developing and implementing our medium-term Board andmanagement succession plan 3.
Strategy 27% 2 f continuing to contribute to governance practice and thought 4.
Corporate governance 24% leadership throughout our jurisdictions of operation 4 5.
Training 7% f Developing our new governance framework with the orderly handover of responsibilities from Breffni Byrne to Pat Butler 3 aschairman of the audit committee f further advancing our commitment to business integrity through HigHligHts of 2013 theimplementation of relevant procedures, policies and training f We made significant strides in the development and implementation f Developing further our externally moderated Board evaluation ofour succession plans, which included the following changes: processes samih Darwazah is to retire from the Board and become honorary life President said Darwazah is to be appointed chairman andchief executive: Dialogue with stakeholders sir David rowe-Ham is to retire Hikma is committed to communicating with shareholders and robert Pickering, non-executive Director, is to be appointed senior stakeholders in a clear and open manner.
if there are matters on independent Director and chairman of the nomination committee.
mr Pickering will become a member of the remuneration which additional explanation is required, we are always happy to committee and cease to be a member of the compliance, discuss them.
responsibility and ethics committee crec the chairman, senior independent Director and committee Patrick Butler is being appointed as a non-executive Director with a chairmen remain open for discussion on matters under their areas view to taking over the chairmanship of the audit committee in of responsibility, either through contacting Hikma or at the annual 2015. mr Butler will become a member of the audit and general meeting agm.
each committee has provided shareholders nomination committees and the crec Breffni Byrne, having completed nine years service, will retire from with a separate report on their activities during the year.
the Board at the 2015 agm on-going communication with shareholders is a high priority.
Hikma undertakes a continuous programme of meetings with f Won the BPt award for best remuneration Disclosure institutional shareholders in the uk, europe, the united states and f shortlisted for Best Board Disclosure by icsa themena region.
this programme includes, but is not limited to, f We designed, developed and consulted major shareholders on a new one-to-one meetings, investor days, conference calls and presentations incentive arrangement called executive incentive Plan which will at investor conferences.
the Board receives regular updates on investor replace the existing bonus and ltiPs for executives relations issues, including feedback from analysts.
in addition, Hikma f We continued to develop the Board corporate governance awareness makes formal presentations at the time of its annual and interim results through corporate governance updates which are webcast and disseminated on Hikmas website.
the chief executive officer, executive vice-chairman, chief financial officer and other senior corporate executives have all participated in the investor governance principles programme during the period under review.
the Board is committed to meeting the standards of good corporate the principal on-going communication with shareholders is governance set out in the uk corporate governance code the through the publication of Hikmas annual report and accounts, code and the markets law of the Dubai financial services interim results and interim management statements, together authority.
this report on pages 52 to 119 describes how the Board with the opportunity to question the Board and committees at applied the code and markets law during the year under review.
shareholders are encouraged to the Board acknowledges that the appointment of said Darwazah attend the agm and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by as chairman and chief executive requires explanation under the code, proxy.
copies of presentations made at the agm are available on which has been provided in this document.
otherwise, throughout the the website after the event together with the results of the voting.
year and up until the date of this report Hikma was in full compliance.
Hikma maintains a website which is updated regularly.
additionally, Hikma continues to communicate with the market in respect of the groups performance and prospects through the release of appropriate pressannouncements and other updates.
