Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 governance rePort Continued BoarD comPosition the Board is responsible for setting the strategic direction and the charts below compares the Board composition as at monitoring the financial performance of the group against its targets.
the Board promotes good governance within the group, and seeks BoarD comPosition to ensure that Hikma meets its responsibilities to shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
there is AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2013 a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which was 1.
Chairman 11% 1 reviewed in 2013 as part of the annual corporate governance review conducted by the audit committee and approved by the Board.
Executive Directors 22% the schedule includes approval of strategic plans, financial statements, 3.
Non-Independent NED 11% budget, material investment decisions, acquisitions and divestments, 4.
Independent NEDs 56% and responsibility for the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
3 the Board delegates its authority to the chief executive who is responsible for delivering Hikmas strategic objectives.
the chief 4 executive is assisted in this task by the executive committee, the members of which meet with the chief executive to set strategy and f one non-executive chairman key objectives for their areas of responsibility.
the chief executive f two executive Directors f one non-independent non-executive Director reports on operational progress and corporate actions to the Board.
f five independent non-executive Directors Where appropriate, the chief executive is assisted by internal and AS AT 15 MAY 2014 external advisers in presenting operational progress and key strategic decisions to the Board.
Executive Directors 13% internal aDvisers eXternal aDvisers 2 3.
Non-Independent NED 13% f cfo f ashurst f ceo us f addleshaw goddard 4.
Independent NEDs 61% f chief strategy officer f Bank of america merrill lynch 3 f general counsel f centerview Partners f vP Human resources f citigroup f company secretary f Deloitte 4 f vP eu and injectables f ernst & Young f vP ir and strategy f lintstock f Pwc f one chairman and chief executive f one executive Director f one non-independent non-executive Director f five independent non-executive Directors BoarD comPosition During the course of 2014, the following changes are being made the names of the Directors, their biographical details and dates tothestructure of the Board: ofappointment are set out on pages 54 to 57. f mr said Darwazah is to become chairman and chief executive the senior independent Director is sir David rowe-Ham who may 2014 remains available to shareholders should they have concerns that they do not wish to raise directly with the chairman and chief executive.
f mr Pat Butler is to be appointed as independent non-executive Director april 2014, with the intention to become audit committee as detailed in his role profile on page 64, sir David is also responsible chairman following a handover period for chairing the meetings of the non-executive Directors conducted without the presence of the chairman or executive management.
f sir David rowe-Ham, senior independent Director, intends to retire may 2014 mrrobert Pickering will take on this role from 14 may 2014. f mr robert Pickering, non-executive Director, is to take on the seniorindependent Director role may 2014 62 corPorate governance cHairman anD cHief eXecutive aPPointment During 2013 the company undertook a fundamental review of our enHanceD safeguarDs succession plans and, following a full shareholder consultation, the Board decided to appoint mr said Darwazah as chairman in addition as part of its consideration of the new position, the Board reviewed to his current role as chief executive.
the Board is aware that this its governance structure and implemented new and enhanced existing controls: constitutes a departure from the code and, therefore, has detailed below the rationale for the departure.
f enhanced senior independent role the Board has resolved to increase the responsibilities of the reasons for tHe Decision seniorindependent Director to include: Joint responsibility, with the chairman and chief executive, the Board is focused on continuing the commercial success of Hikma forsetting the Board agenda, agreeing actions points and the and believes that the appointment of a chairman and chief executive minutes of the meeting isthe best way to achieve this objective.
responsibility for Board composition, effectiveness and evaluation f chairmans role: the chairman position is highly visible within Hikma, independent access to executive management and vice versa acting as an ambassador with our business partners and adviser to a reporting line from the company secretary our divisions.
it is essential the chairman intimately understands f independent majority mena culture and has strong relationships in the region, can speak the Board is committed to maintaining a majority of independent arabic and has extensive pharmaceutical knowledge.
non-executive Directors at all times.
the nomination committee f entrepreneurial leadership: Hikma is an entrepreneurial company hasa medium-term plan for the orderly succession of non-executive andbelieves that the combination of Board and strategic leadership Directors, including the handover of responsibilities of the committee isthe best method of maintaining the growth success and corporate chairmen.
the nomination committee is currently undertaking an nimbleness.
external search for a non-executive appointment in 2014. f continuity of success: said Darwazah has been the driving force f governance structure review behind the operational success of the business since 2007 and the the independent Directors meet at least bi-annually in a separate Board believes that his role as chief executive remains critical to the session chaired by the senior independent Director.
this meeting continued success of the group.
furthermore, having discussed includes consideration of the appropriateness of the governance succession planning over several years the Board does not believe structure and safeguards for shareholders.
that there is currently an appropriate chief executive successor within f leadership style the company and an external appointment would not be in the best mr said Darwazahs leadership style is to set a strategic vision for the interests of the group given its heritage and management structure.
group and empower divisional heads to deliver that vision.
there is a executive succession is an area that the Board and executives are significant delegation of power and authority to those business heads.
particularly focused on for the future.
f executive remuneration f Business partners: a significant number of the companys key the remuneration of the executive management and the company political and commercial relationships across the mena region are secretary are set by the remuneration committee.
built on the long-term trust and respect for the Darwazahs where therole of the chairman remains key.
f committee chairman roles the chairmen of the Board committees, all of whom are independent f individual based appointment: the combining of the chairman and non-executive Directors, undertake a significant amount of work in chief executive role is consequently being proposed due to the the oversight of the functions that report to their committees and unique skill set, experience, style and position of said Darwazah have in-depth relationships and reporting lines with their executives.
f Board dynamics f Darwazah family: members of the family have always held the the Darwazah family fully embrace the uk governance model, chiefexecutive and chairman positions, and as a 31% shareholder including the role of independent Directors, who they view as adding inthe company, the Darwazah family does not wish to relinquish significant value to Hikma.
the majority of the Board are independent thechairmans position reflecting their view of its importance and there has and always will be a strong senior independent inthecontinuity of Hikmas success.
Director, who receives the highest level of respect from the Darwazah family and within Hikma.
the Board considers that the combining ofthe role of chairman and chief executive will have minimal impact on the functioning of the Board.
