corPorate governance commit tee rePorts nomination let ter from tHe cHairman Dear shareholder the nomination committee has been very active over the course of 2013 and early 2014. as part of our plan to refresh the Board, we have recommended the appointment of a new chairman and chief executive, independent non-executive Director and senior independent Director.
additionally, we have further developed our medium-term succession arrangements and are well positioned for the future.
the most momentous change this year is the forthcoming retirement of samih Darwazah, thefounder and leader of Hikma for a generation.
Hikma and samih will always have a special bond and this is appropriately reflected in samihs appointment as honorary life President.
Hikma is an entrepreneurial company and operates in a diverse range of markets, where long-term relationships are particularly important.
it is in this context that the committee nomination rePort considered the appointment of said Darwazah as chairman and chief executive.
We took 77 letter from the chairman into account the dynamics Hikma needs to be successful and undertook a full consultation exercise with our major shareholders in advance of recommending the appointment to the 78 our Highlights Board.
You will find further details regarding the appointment on pages 63 to 64 of the corporate 78 membership and attendance governance report.
78 responsibilities as we have announced previously, i will retire at the agm.
the past nine years have been a 79 succession time of significant change for Hikma and it has been a great pleasure to join the company on its 80 skills and experience journey.
i am leaving Hikma in excellent hands and i am confident that the company is very well 80  equipped for the future.
i am delighted that robert Pickering has kindly accepted to succeed me 80 re-election as senior independent Director and chairman of the nomination committee.
81 Diversity We are in the process of implementing and further developing our succession plans for 81 Board Diversity non-executive Directors.
the committee considers the best method of ensuring a smooth transition of responsibilities is to allow for a handover period between the current and future committee chairmen.
With this in mind, we were delighted to recommend the appointment of Pat Butler to the Board.
Pat will spend the next year or so with Breffni Byrne and the finance team in advance of taking the audit committee chair in mid 2015. as i have mentioned in previous years when considering Board appointments, our priority on recruitment is to identify a person who fits with the diverse international culture and management style of Hikma and ensuring that the right person is appointed to the role.
We are cognisant of the significant advantages of diversity at the level of the Board, senior management and the group as a whole.
We intend to further diversify the Boards experience and characteristics as part of our medium-term plans.
the committee also reviewed the independence of each non-executive Director, all Directors external commitments and the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board prior to recommending Directors election and re-election at the agm.
following consideration of these issues the committee recommended the election or re-election of each Director standing for election or re-election at the 2014 agm.
as an organisation, Hikma is committed to clear and open communication, and, asthesenior independent Director, i am open at any time to discussion with shareholders shouldthey have concerns which they wish to raise.
sir David rowe-Ham, Chairman of the Nomination Committee 77 E E T T I M M O C N O I T A N I M O N C O M P SUCCESSION L I A N C E, R E S P O E E N T S I T B I I M L I Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 committee rePorts nomination Continued resPonsiBilities our HigHligHts f recommended the appointment of said Darwazah as a chairman and chief executive f recommended the appointment of a new senior independent Director and chairman of the nomination committee f identified and recommended for appointment Pat Butler as a new independent non-executive Director and potential chairman of the audit committee f further developed our medium-term succession plan THE BOARD COMMITTEES f reviewed the composition, diversity and balance of skills on the Board ALLOCATION OF TIME 1.
Corporate governance 16% the nomination committee is responsible for succession planning, including the progressive refreshing of the Board, for ensuring that all appointments to the Board are made on objective criteria and memBersHiP anD attenDance that candidates have sufficient time to devote to their prospective the nomination committee consists of four Directors.
it is also charged with reviewing the appropriateness independent non-executive Directors: sir David rowe-Ham, robert ofthe size, structure and composition of the Board.
the fourth is mazen Darwazah, the the nomination committee terms of reference include all matters executive vice chairman.
Pat Butler, independent non-executive Director, will join on 1 april 2014. sir David rowe-Ham is to retire on indicated by the corporate governance principles and clearly set out 15 may 2014, at which point the chairmanship will be handed over its authority and duties.
the committees terms of reference are to robert Pickering.
the committee met five times during the year.
approved and reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
the terms full attendance was achieved.
of reference are available on the Hikma website and by contacting members meetings attendance investors@hikma.
sir David rowe-Ham chairman 100% michael ashton 100% mazen Darwazah 100% robert Pickering 100% Pat Butler n a total meetings 10 internal aDvisers eXternal aDvisers f chairman f odgers Berndtson f chief executive f lintstock f company secretary 78 APPOINTMENTS M T Y O C A N N D O I E T T A H R I E C N S U M E R TRAINING AND INDUCTION E E T T I M M O C T I D U A corPorate governance succession During the year, the committee reviewed potential scenarios for Board changes over the medium-term and consulted major shareholders and governance bodies on the new proposed Board structure.
the committee discussed the relevant external guidance and internal processes in place for succession and ensured there was an appropriate dialogue with the Board and the chairman in this regard.
the process that was followed toidentify and implement the changes to the Board structure is summarised below.
cHairman anD cHief eXecutive senior inDePenDent Director non-eXecutive Director f Preliminary discussions for several years, f role profile discussed and established ledby the senior independent Director f consideration of members of executive f consideration of external internal hire f role profile discussed and established management andinstruction of executive search firm f candidate identified f odgers Berndtson appointed to identify candidates f list of candidates presented by odgers Berndtson to the senior independent Director f consideration ofappropriate safeguards f committee recommendation f shortlist of candidates presented and controls communicated tothe Board to the committee and the Board f consultation with key investors led f meeting of shortlisted candidates by the committee and the senior with thesenior independent Director independent Director and committee member f second meetings ofcandidates with chairman and chief executive f final committee recommendation totheBoard f mr samih Darwazah to retire f appointment of mrrobert Pickering f appointment of mrPat Butler as chairman of the Board as senior independent Director as non-executive Director f mr said Darwazah tobe appointed f sir David rowe-Ham to retire as Director chairman and chief executive f Handover of audit committee chairmanship transition period f appointment of mrPat Butler as chairman of audit committee f mr Breffni Byrne to retire agm appointments 79 2015 2014 2013 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 committee rePorts nomination Continued skills anD eXPerience f governance consideration: the committee and the Board were very much aware of the governance implications of a departure from the the broad range of skills and experience of Board members has code.
the reluctance to make the chairman and executive chairman greatly assisted in the success of the company.
in view of the current appointment was only overcome when it was clear that this was the best leadership option for Hikma and the appropriate controls and safeguards succession plans, the nomination committee undertook an in-depth had been considered.
Please see pages 63 to 64 for details of the enhanced analysis of each role on the Board before considering new candidates.
controls and safeguards in place.
the committee aims to preserve the Boards very broad spread of experience, which provides the necessary checks and balances for f consultation: the committee was cognisant of the need to hold discussions with key investors and governance bodies, in order to ensure safeguarding the interest of the group.
While each Director possesses that the opinions of our key stakeholders were taken into account.
a different skill set, the committee believes that all Directors at Hikma members of the committee, led by the senior independent Director, share the following important characteristics: held meetings with these parties in advance of the final decision and f challenging yet consensual style took into account their views in the safeguards and nature of the positions that were made.
f independence of mind and clarity of thought f communication: the final decision was communicated to shareholders f significant experience at a senior management level through a stock exchange announcement which included a full explanation of the new role, process, reasons and safeguards.
f international business experience for further information on the diverse skills and experience of our re-election current Directors, please see the biographical details on pages 54 to 57. each member of the Board will retire or submit himself for re-election cHairman anD cHief eXecutive as detailed previously in this report at the 2014 agm.
as summarised in the timeline on page 79, the process undertaken by the committee and the Board when considering the nomination of mrsaid Darwazah as chairman and chief executive was as follows: f early stage discussions: for a period of approximately two years, theBoard and the nomination committee were in discussion about succession for the chief executive and chairman.
chiefly these discussions were led by the senior independent Director, in consultation with the chairman and chief executive, amongst other Directors.
f executive consideration: the nomination committee assisted the Board in reviewing the capabilities of each member of senior management and considered whether an external search would be appropriate for the company.
the conclusion of the exercise was that all management were very capable in their existing roles, but the roles were unique and one role did not necessarily provide the skill set for another.
an external search was considered, but ruled out due to the culture and history of Hikma, encouraging recruitment and progression from within, as well asconsiderable personal responsibility and autonomy.
it was considered that an outsider would have difficulties being successful within that framework.
80 corPorate governance DiversitY Hikma is committed to employing and engaging the best people, GENDER DIVERSITY OVERALL irrespective of background, gender, orientation, race, age or disability.
Women 27% Hikma has always operated a discrimination-free working environment 1 and is committed to gender diversity at all levels and in all areas of 2.
as part of our commitment to diversity, we have improved our internal monitoring and increased the level of information on diversity 2 available to our stakeholders in this report.
We consider that our diversity continues to be demonstrated by the broad range of people inour organisation.
CULTURAL DIVERSITY GENDER DIVERSITY IN EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 1.
3140 24% 3 the committee considered Board diversity at several stages through 3.
Whilst the Board has excellent diversity in terms of culture, 4.
50 8% age, background and skills and experience, the committee is cognisant of the need to improve gender diversity at the Board level.
We considered several female candidates as part of the 2 recruitment process, including at the final interview stage.
However, the best candidate for Hikma was selected, and on this occasion gender diversity was not improved as a result.
Hikmas mediumterm plans arelikely to result in further appointments during which theidentification of a female candidate will be a high priority.
We continue to believe that diversity targets are inappropriate, asthey are unfair to candidates and may prevent Hikma from employing the person who best suits the role.
for and on behalf of the nomination committee sir David rowe-Ham, Nomination Committee Chairman 11 march 2014 81
