GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction For the period under review, Home Retail Group plc has complied fully with The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Company the main and supporting principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance to provide strategic leadership and to monitor performance and the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2010 management of risk.
In tough economic conditions, the role and the Code.
This statement, together with the directors report and the effectiveness of boards come sharply into focus.
Over the past year we directors remuneration report, provides a summary of the Groups have looked closely at how best we can ensure that the Board continues procedures for applying the principles of the Code and the extent to which to fulfil its responsibilities.
We have reviewed and updated the division of such principles have been applied.
The Company has applied the principles responsibilities between my role as chairman and the role of Terry Duddy of the Code as follows: as chief executive and we have undertaken an independent formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees.
The The Board Remuneration Committee has reviewed our remuneration policy and The Board consists of the chairman, John Coombe: chief executive, Terry incentive arrangements and implemented early many of the changes to Duddy: finance director, Richard Ashton: and four non-executive directors: reporting requirements being introduced by the UK Governments new Mike Darcey the senior independent director, Ian Durant, Cath Keers and legislation.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and extended its section Jacqueline fide Rojas from 5 December 2012. of the report in line with the Financial Reporting Councils changes to its The four non-executive directors are determined by the Board to be Guidance for Audit Committees.
independent and there are no relationships or circumstances which could Under the chairmanship of Oliver Stocken, we began a process of affect, or appear to affect, a non-executive directors judgement.
The appointing new non-executive directors with the skills, knowledge, Company has in place formal procedures regarding conflicts of interest, experience and independence to contribute to the next phase of the which are reviewed on an annual basis.
In 2011, we appointed Ian Durant and Cath As reported in the 2012 annual report, John Coombe succeeded Oliver Keers and we have continued with this process in the past year with the Stocken as chairman at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
appointment of Jacqueline fide Rojas in December.
With her extensive Following John Coombes appointment, the Board reviewed and agreed experience in software technology, Jacqueline is a strong addition to our updated statements of the role of the chairman and chief executive.
Board as Argos implements its transformation plan to become a digital retail leader and Homebase extends its online experience for customers.
The chairmans responsibilities include: How individual directors both executive and non-executive Providing leadership for and ensuring the effective operation approach their responsibilities is also a key element for effective governance.
of the Board in conformity with the highest standards of I believe a culture of openness, challenge and debate is very important, corporate governance: supported by constructive relations between executive and non-executive Supporting the chief executive in the development of strategy: directors and effective communication channels with other members of Promoting and facilitating effective relationships and communications senior management.
I am grateful to the members of the Board and senior between non-executive directors and executive directors and management for their commitment to this culture and the diligence they members of senior management: show to their responsibilities.
The size of our Board facilitates this process.
Ensuring effective communication with the Groups stakeholders, Each of our non-executive directors serves on each of the three main Board including shareholders: and committees: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination, and is able to have Chairing the Nomination Committee and building an effective and direct involvement in the key areas of governance and to take full account complementary Board, initiating change and planning succession on of the relationships between the work of these committees.
These Board and senior management appointments.
arrangements enable the Board to be kept fully informed about the business and also enable the business to benefit from the full range of The chief executives responsibilities include: capabilities, experience and expertise represented on the Board and in Developing the strategy of the Group in conjunction with the chairman senior management.
and the Board and being responsible to the Board for the performance Good governance does not of itself produce good results but it of the business, consistent with agreed plans, strategies and policies: is essential to the creation of a responsible environment in which Developing and maintaining an effective framework of internal performance can flourish and deliver success.
I believe we have that controls over risk in relation to all business activities: environment.
Leading the Operating Board and senior executive team in the day-today running of the business: John Coombe Ensuring that robust management succession and management Chairman development plans are in place: and Ensuring that financial results, business strategies and, where appropriate, targets and milestones are communicated to the investment community.
34 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION In fulfilling his responsibilities, the chief executive is supported by the Each month, the Board received a management information pack that Operating Board, which includes the finance director and the managing provided detailed information on the performance of the Groups directors of the main businesses and shared service functions.
In advance of each scheduled meeting, the Board received The Board has a programme of scheduled meetings and telephone a comprehensive management report that covered the trading and conferences each year and meets more frequently as required.
During the operational performance of each of the Groups businesses, the Groups period under review, in accordance with established practice, the chairman financial performance, current market expectations of financial met with the non-executive directors without the executive directors performance and any significant developments.
present and arrangements are in place for regular informal meetings with During the period under review, the Board has focused on the review the non-executive directors.
The Board met informally on the evening of the Argos strategy and the development and launch of the Argos before most scheduled Board meetings and members of the Operating transformation plan: the development of the Homebase proposition Board were invited to join these discussions on a regular basis and to through the new store format, exclusive brands and multi-channel provide updates on their areas of responsibility.
capability and the investment required to support these initiatives.
Arrangements to ensure that the non-executive directors are fully Other matters considered by the Board included the launch of Habitat in informed about the business are kept under review.
As with each of the Homebase: a review of the Chinese joint venture: a review of Argos TV: other non-executive directors, upon appointment, Jacqueline fide Rojas sale of the Groups shareholding in Ogalas Limited: closure of the Groups undertook a full induction programme, meeting the management team defined benefit pension scheme, implementation of auto-enrolment and visiting stores, distribution centres and contact centres across the pension arrangements and agreement on the 2012 valuation of the United Kingdom.
Board members continue to spend time seeing the pension scheme: renewal of the Groups revolving credit facility: health business in operation, hearing the views of colleagues from across the and safety: business continuity arrangements: and the Groups corporate business and attending management conferences and monitoring responsibility strategy.
The company secretary ensures that the Board developments in both the market and with our competitors.
Each of receives regular briefings on corporate governance matters and the non-executive directors serves on each of the three main Board company legislation.
committees: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination.
This not only During the period under review, an independent formal evaluation of facilitates the provision of information to the Board and better the performance of the Board was undertaken by Geoffrey Shepheard of communication, but it also enables Board members to have direct ICSA Board Evaluation.
ICSA Board Evaluation has no connection with involvement in the key areas of governance and to take full account of the Company.
Mr. Shepheard met with each director and the managing the relationships between the work of these committees.
directors of Argos and Homebase and discussed their views on key aspects There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for of the Boards performance, including Board and Board committee the Board, which is reviewed annually.
These matters include responsibilities: oversight: Board meetings: support for the Board: Board responsibility for: composition: how the Board and individual directors work together: and the overall management of the Group, approval of the Groups outcomes and achievements.
A summary of each discussion was reviewed long-term objectives and commercial strategy, and the review of by each interviewee and formed the basis for a report for the Board, performance: including recommendations for actions.
ICSA Board Evaluation presented determining the nature and extent of significant risks it is willing for the the report at a Board meeting.
Based on the interviewees assessments of Group to take in achieving its strategic objectives: each topic, ISCA Board Evaluation assessed that, overall, the Board was the approval of interim management statements, announcements of performing well.
The Board considered the findings and recommendations half-year and full-year results, including dividends, and the annual of the evaluation, including the role of the Board and the appropriate report and accounts: balance of involvement of the chairman and non-executives in operational the approval of documentation to be put forward to shareholders at issues and strategic matters.
Actions to enhance the effectiveness of the general meetings and all circulars and prospectuses other than routine Board were agreed and are being addressed, including certain adjustments documents: and to the timing of meetings and the process for refreshing directors skills the approval of all appointments to the Board and of the company and knowledge.
secretary and ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board Individual appraisals of directors have been undertaken by the and senior management.
Under the leadership of the senior independent director, the non-executive directors met without the chairman present to appraise the chairmans performance, taking account of any views expressed by the executive directors.
In line with the requirements of the Code, all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election each year.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 35 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued Board committees The Nomination Committee keeps under review the balance of skills, The Board has appointed the following committees: Remuneration experience, independence and knowledge on the Board.
John Coombe, Committee, Nomination Committee and Audit Committee.
The terms of appointed in 2006, has an in-depth understanding of the Group and its reference of each of these committees are available on the Companys businesses and exceptional experience at board level of listed companies website at www.
in a range of industries and as a former member of the UK Accounting The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and the Board Standards Board.
Mike Darcey, appointed in 2010, has worked across many committees was as follows: industries, including telecommunications and entertainment, and has wide ranging experience of media and digital technology.
Ian Durant, appointed Board Audit Remuneration Nomination in 2011, has strong financial and accounting experience combined with Board member meetings Committee Committee Committee extensive knowledge of the retail sector and property investment and Terry Duddy 12 12 2 2 development.
Cath Keers, appointed in 2011, has extensive marketing and business development experience, with particular emphasis on mobile Richard Ashton 12 12 applications and ecommerce.
The committee led the process that resulted in the appointment John Coombe 11 12 4 4 7 7 2 2 of Jacqueline fide Rojas as a non-executive director in 2012.
As part of Mike Darcey 12 12 4 4 7 7 2 2 that process, the committee evaluated the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and, in the light of this Jacqueline fide Rojas 4 4 1 1 2 2 2 2 evaluation, prepared a specification of the capabilities required for the appointment, including an assessment of the time commitment expected.
Ian Durant 12 12 4 4 7 7 2 2 An external search consultancy, Lygon Group, was appointed to facilitate the search for suitable candidates.
Lygon Group has no other connection Cath Keers 11 12 2 4 6 7 1 2 with the Company.
Following this process, Jacqueline fide Rojas was Oliver Stocken 4 4 2 3 recommended to the Board for appointment.
Jacqueline has extensive experience in software technology businesses.
In 2013, Lord Davies published his second annual progress report on his Note: Board changes during the period: Oliver Stocken resigned 4 July 2012, Jacqueline fide Rojas review on Women on Boards, setting out recommendations to facilitate appointed 5 December 2012. further progress.
These will be considered in the year ahead.
One key recommendation is that FTSE 250 boards should aim for a minimum of Remuneration Committee 25% female representation by 2015.
As at 2 March 2013, the Company had The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Cath Keers.
Cath succeeded two female directors, representing 29% of the Board 2012: 14%.
Diversity Mike Darcey as chairman of the committee on 5 July 2012.
The other including gender diversity is integral to how the Group conducts its members of the committee are John Coombe, Mike Darcey, Ian Durant business and the Group will continue to support and encourage increased and Jacqueline fide Rojas from 5 December 2012.
Terry Duddy attends diversity across all parts of its business and at every management level of meetings of the committee at the request of the committee chairman.
As at 2 March 2013, 22% of Operating Board members The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations were women 2012: 11% : 26% of senior executives were women 2012: to the Board on the Groups policy on the remuneration of the Operating 23% : and 52% of our total employees were women 2012: 51%.
More Board, as well as the specific remuneration packages for each of the information on our approach to diversity can be found in the corporate executive directors and other members of the Operating Board.
Details of responsibility section of our website.
how the committee has fulfilled its responsibilities and of compliance with Section D of the Code regarding remuneration are set out in the directors Audit Committee remuneration report on pages 46 to 51.
The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Ian Durant.
Ian succeeded John Coombe as Nomination Committee chairman of the committee on 5 July 2012.
Ian was formerly finance The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Coombe and its other director of Liberty International.
The Board considers that Ian has recent members are Mike Darcey, Terry Duddy, Ian Durant, Cath Keers and and relevant financial experience.
John Coombe, Terry Duddy and Richard Jacqueline fide Rojas from 5 December 2012.
John succeeded Oliver Ashton attend committee meetings at the request of the committee Stocken as chairman of the committee on 5 July 2012.
This ensures that all Board members are made aware of how the Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board committee discharges its responsibilities.
The Group head of internal audit on the composition of the Board and its committees, on retirements, and the external auditors also attend meetings of the committee at the appointments of additional and replacement directors and on request of the committee chairman.
The committee met with the external succession planning.
auditors and the head of internal audit after each of its meetings without the presence of executive directors or management.
36 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION The Audit Committees principal responsibilities cover internal control and changes to the Code introduced in 2012, it is expected that the audit will be risk management, oversight of internal audit and external audit including re-tendered no later than FY17.
To assist the Audit Committee, a review auditor independence and financial reporting.
During the period under was undertaken by the Companys internal audit department of the review, the committee reviewed the Financial Reporting Councils changes effectiveness of the external audit for FY12.
Effectiveness was assessed in to its Guidance for Audit Committees and has extended this section of the relation to three areas: robustness of audit: quality of audit: and quality report in line with these changes.
A questionnaire was completed by management The committee has a structured programme linked to the Groups stakeholders, including managing directors of the main businesses, financial calendar.
The committee reviewed the full-year results members of the risk committee and divisional finance directors.
announcement, annual report and financial statements and the half-year Respondents were required to score the external auditors performance results announcement and considered reports from the external auditors against a range of criteria and were also given the opportunity to provide identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
The results evidenced a positive evaluation Material issues considered by the committee included goodwill carrying of the work of the external auditors and that high standards had been values: provisions in respect of onerous leases and inventories: provisioning maintained.
The report also suggested areas where there may be potential levels contained within the Groups Financial Services operation: tax: opportunities for further enhancements in project management and exceptional items: and a number of disclosures contained within the communications.
The committee reviewed and discussed the findings of consolidated financial statements.
To inform the Boards assessment of the report with the head of internal audit and the lead audit engagement whether it was appropriate for the Company to adopt the going concern partner.
basis in preparing financial statements, at both the half year and full year, In addition to the effectiveness review, a number of factors were taken the committee considered detailed reviews, based on the Companys into account by the committee in assessing whether to recommend the financial plans, in relation to funding and liquidity, taking into consideration external auditors for re-appointment.
These included: the Groups cash position, credit facilities and store card receivables and a the quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the Board range of sensitivities.
and the quality of advice given: In September 2012, the external auditors presented their strategy for the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses and FY13 to the Audit Committee including a risk assessment, an overview the retail sector: and of the areas of focus and the planned audit response.
Taking into the objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around consideration the audit strategy and proposed areas of work and the the Group.
assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit for FY12, the Audit Committee discussed and approved the external auditors audit fee The committee also reviewed and discussed the key messages highlighted proposal.
In September 2012 and February 2013, the committee reviewed in the Public Report on the 2011 12 inspection of  reports on the Groups risk management process and risk profile and by the FRCs Audit Inspection Unit AIU and the findings highlighted for discussed the most significant risks.
In February 2013, the committee audit committees in the AIUs Annual Report for 2011 12. considered and approved internal audits audit plan for FY14, taking into External auditor independence is an essential part of the audit account the risk profile.
framework and the assurance it provides.
The committee has established At each meeting, the committee considered reports from the head of control procedures to safeguard the objectivity and independence of internal audit on the results of all internal audit reviews, significant findings, the external auditors and to ensure that the independence of the audit management action plans and timeliness of resolution and reports on work undertaken by the external auditors is not compromised.
These any material litigation or potential litigation involving Group companies.
procedures include a policy on the provision of non-audit services overseen During the period under review, the committee also reviewed by the Group finance director in consultation with the committee management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud including the Groups chairman: annual confirmation of independence in writing by the external anti-bribery arrangements: reviewed arrangements by which Group auditors following a review of relevant areas including relationships and employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties investment, services provided to the Group and gifts and hospitality: in financial reporting, dishonesty, corruption, breaches of business consideration of the external auditors confirmation at a committee principles and other matters: and reviewed the statement in the annual meeting: and half-yearly reports to the committee providing details of report on the system of internal control.
any assignments and related fees carried out by the external auditors in One of the primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee is to assess addition to their normal work.
These control procedures are in addition to the effectiveness of the external audit process and make recommendations the Groups anti-bribery and gifts and hospitality policies.
Audit partner to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and rotation forms part of the arrangements that support independence and removal of the external auditors.
The current external auditors, objectivity.
Neil Grimes was appointed in 2011 as lead audit engagement  LLP, were appointed in 2006.
In line with the partner and senior statutory auditor.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 37 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued The Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services is that the Accountability and audit external auditors may only provide such services provided that these do The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The system is designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and These services are: help ensure the reliability of internal and external financial reporting.
further assurance services where the external auditors deep The purpose of this system is to help manage and control risk rather knowledge of the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed than eliminate it.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key to carry out such work.
This may include but is not restricted to procedures which have been established to provide internal control.
shareholder and other circulars regulatory reports and work in The Board confirms there is in place an ongoing process for identifying, connection with acquisitions and divestments: evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, including taxation services where the external auditors knowledge of the risks relating to environmental, social and governance matters.
This Groups affairs may provide advantages to the Groups tax position, process was in place throughout the period under review and up to the date and where this is not the case, the work is put out to tender: and of approval of this annual report and meets the requirements of the FRC general in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide guidance entitled Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the services provided that proposed assignments which exceed financial Combined Code.
limits set out in the policy are put out to tender and decisions to award This process is overseen by a risk committee chaired by the finance work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost director and comprised of all divisional finance directors, the director of effectiveness.
Group treasury and taxation, the company secretary, the risk assurance manager and the head of internal audit.
The risk committee met five times However, certain areas of work are specifically prohibited including work in the period under review.
related to accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately The Audit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of be subject to external audit and management of or significant involvement this system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
The committee chairmans approval is required As part of the process that the Company has in place to review the before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures designed set out in the policy.
to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses and to ensure that For the period under review non-audit fees paid to the Companys necessary action is taken to remedy any failings that may be categorised auditors,  LLP did not exceed audit fees.
The by the Board as significant.
non-audit services provided by the external auditors related principally The key procedures which were operational in the period under review to a review in connection with the renewal of the revolving credit facility.
were as follows: The external auditors were engaged to undertake this assignment after discussion with the committee chairman because of their past experience Risk assessment in delivering similar services to the Company and their cost effectiveness.
Current and longer-term emerging risks were identified and reviewed The fees in respect of assignments carried out by the external auditors in by management followed by the review of the risk committee and addition to their normal work in the period under review were: Operating Board.
This takes place on a bi-annual basis, facilitated by the risk assurance manager.
m The risks identified through this process were then reported to the Audit Committee, with particular focus on those risks classified as Taxation services high-level risks by management.
The schedule of high-level risks was All other services 0.2 used as the basis for the programme of internal audit and assurance.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis and received its annual report on the controls over these risks.
This included risks arising from environmental, social and governance matters.
38 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Control environment and control activities Relations with shareholders The Group has established procedures for delegating authority The Board recognises the importance of communicating with its which ensures that decisions that are significant, either because shareholders and does so in a number of ways, including the provision of of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken information in the annual report and on the Companys website, the at an appropriate level.
Annual General Meeting and the processes described below.
The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each Although the majority of shareholder contact is with the chief significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies include executive and the finance director, supported by management specialising internal controls, insurance and foreign currency hedging.
in investor relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole, led by The Group sets out principles, policies and standards to be adhered to.
the chairman, to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders These include risk identification, management and reporting standards, takes place.
Meetings with investors have been held throughout the year ethical principles and practice and accounting policies.
Data with roadshow activity following the full-year and half-year results consolidated into the Groups financial statements is reconciled to announcements.
Following his appointment as chairman, John Coombe the underlying financial systems.
A review of the consolidated data wrote to major shareholders to emphasise the importance placed on is undertaken by management to ensure that the true position and effective engagement and communication with shareholders and he results of the Group are reflected through compliance with approved has held meetings with a number of shareholders during the period accounting policies.
Through these processes the Board is kept abreast of key issues.
Information and communication Shareholders have a direct line of communication to the chairman, The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, including particularly if there are areas for concern, whether it be about performance, monthly performance reviews by the Operating Board.
The Operating strategy or governance.
The senior independent director is also available Board also reviews a range of financial and non-financial performance should shareholders have concerns which contact through the normal indicators.
These indicators were regularly reviewed to ensure that they channels of the chairman, the chief executive and the finance director has remain relevant and reliable.
failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Group has whistleblowing procedures in place for employees to All directors, including the chairs of the Audit, Nomination and report any suspected improprieties.
Remuneration committees, intend to be present at the Annual General Meeting and be available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting at monitoring the Annual General Meeting will be by way of a poll by members present A range of procedures was used to monitor the effective application at the meeting and, following each vote, the level of proxies lodged on of internal control in the Group, including management assurance each resolution, the balance for and against the resolution and the number through confirmation of compliance with standards, and independent of votes withheld, will be displayed.
The results of voting at the Annual assurance through internal audit reviews and review by specialist General Meeting will also be available on the Companys website at third parties.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
The internal audit departments responsibilities include reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, with a particular focus on those areas identified as being the greatest risk to the Group.
Follow-up processes were used to ensure there was an appropriate response to changes and developments in risks and the control environment.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 39
