Governance Corporate governance The Board believes that good corporate governance underpins good business performance.
This report explains how the Board applied the principles of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Commentary on the Codes principles relating to remuneration matters is contained in the Remuneration report.
A review of the Groups position and prospects is set out in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Financial review.
HomeServe complied with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the year.
The Board The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which are available on request.
The Articles of Association may be changed by special resolution.
The Directors also have responsibilities and duties under other legislation and in particular, the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has a Schedule of Matters specifically reserved to it for decision and has approved the written terms of reference of the various committees to which it has delegated its authority in certain matters.
Matters reserved to the Board include: the recommendation or approval of dividends the approval of preliminary and interim financial statements the approval of major financial commitments the acquisitions of significant companies or businesses appointments to the Board and its Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees the Companys future strategy the Companys internal controls.
The full schedule is available on the website.
Board composition The Board is made up of a balance of Executive Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors who held office during the year were: John Michael Barry Gibson Richard David Harpin Martin John Bennett Johnathan Richard Ford appointed on 27 September 2012 Jonathan Charles King Ian Chippendale Stella Julie David Benjamin Edward Mingay Mark Christopher Morris Annual Report & Accounts 2013 47 Corporate governance The Board is led by the Chairman, Barry Gibson.
The Chairmans responsibilities are clearly defined in a written specification agreed by the Board and which make clear the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
They include the smooth running of the Board, effective communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the general progress and long-term development of the Group.
During the year, in addition to the Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors Messrs Chippendale, Mingay and Morris and Mrs David with extensive business, finance and marketing backgrounds, provided the Board with a breadth of experience and with independent judgement.
Ian Chippendale served as the Companys independent Senior Non-Executive Director.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, each Director is subject to election by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following his appointment and is subject to re-election every year thereafter.
Short biographies of each of the Directors including their membership of committees can be found on page 42.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company and the options held as at 31 March 2013 and 21 May 2013 are set out in the Remuneration report.
None of the Directors serving at the year end had a beneficial interest in the share capital of any subsidiary company.
Succession planning A succession planning process has been established across the Group.
Each business and corporate function prepares and maintains succession plans with the support of local and Group HR.
The Executive Committee reviews the plans in detail twice a year and the Board reviews the high level plan at least annually.
There is a clear need to ensure that there is an appropriate pool of talented and capable individuals to fill senior roles and the identification and development of this group remains a key focus.
Diversity Although no target has been set in respect of the percentage of women on the Board, we are committed to ensuring that the Board has relevant experience and appropriate diversity.
When seeking to recruit for Board positions we ensure that long lists include women candidates and in respect of non-executive positions we ensure that candidates from a wider pool are considered, including those with little or no listed company board experience.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 48 Governance Board meetings Up to ten regular meetings are held each year to review and monitor current and forecast performance.
Regular reports on monthly performance and other matters of importance to the Group ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with the information necessary to make informed judgements.
In addition, the Board has an annual strategy meeting, also attended by senior operational management, to devise and discuss the Companys medium and long-term strategic focus and management development strategy.
Regular formal and informal presentations are given and meetings held in order to inform Directors of issues of importance affecting the Group.
Occasionally, meetings of the Board are held at the Companys operating sites other than Walsall, in order to afford the Board, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, with the opportunity to meet with local management.
Attendance at meetings All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at meetings during the year are set out in the table below.
Directors who were unable to attend specific meetings reviewed the relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee.
Any Director who misses a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the minutes of that meeting for reference.
Audit & Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Number of meetings held 10 4 2 Meetings attended R Harpin 10 M Bennett 10 1 J Ford 6 J King 10 J M B Gibson 10 2 I Chippendale 10 3 2 S David 9 2 B Mingay 10 4 M Morris 10 4 2 1 Johnathan Ford was appointed on 27 September 2012 and attended all meetings from that date.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 49 Corporate governance Board development The Board actively encourages all Directors to deepen their knowledge of their roles and responsibilities and to gain a clear understanding of the Group and the environment in which it operates and has adopted a formal policy on the induction and training of Directors.
Newly appointed Board members are required to undergo an induction programme, which includes obtaining a thorough understanding of the Groups various operations, and they have the opportunity to receive formal training from external providers if they wish.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors have met with various members of the Groups management teams and external advisers and Johnathan Ford undertook an induction programme.
Board evaluation The Board has implemented a formal process for reviewing its own effectiveness, that of its Remuneration and Audit & Risk committees and its individual members.
In addition, it continued to ensure that regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors were held without the Executive Directors, and at least once a year, without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate his performance.
An external Board evaluation process was completed during 2011 12 by Lintstock Limited.
Directors completed evaluation questionnaires and these were followed up by individual interviews with Lintstock who then compiled a formal written report summarising the Directors views and containing recommendations to further improve the effectiveness of the Board.
Lintstock presented this report to the Board in February 2012.
During 2012 13 Directors again completed evaluation questionnaires and these were used by Lintstock to compile a further report which was considered by the Board in February 2013.
The Board concluded that it was operating effectively, although a number of recommendations for further improvement were approved.
Committees The Board operates a number of committees to which it has delegated certain specific responsibilities, each of which has formally adopted terms of reference.
These comprise the Nomination, Audit & Risk and Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards committees are available on request from the Company Secretary and are on the Companys website.
The membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee are detailed in the Remuneration report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 50 Governance Nomination Committee Members J M Barry Gibson Chair Ian Chippendale Stella David Ben Mingay Mark Morris Responsibilities The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors review the size, structure and composition of the Board consider succession planning arrangements for Directors and other senior managers.
Key issues considered during the year The Committee met informally on a number of occasions during the year to consider the appointment of Johnathan Ford to the position of CFO.
Following these informal meetings, a recommendation was made to the Board and the final decision was taken by the Board as a whole.
The Committee draws on the advice of such professional advisers as it considers necessary and did so during the year in respect of the appointment made.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51 Corporate governance Audit & Risk Committee Members Mark Morris Chair Ian Chippendale Ben Mingay Responsibilities The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: monitor, on behalf of the Board, compliance with and the effectiveness of, the accounting and internal control systems agree audit strategy monitor the scope and results of the annual audit review the independence and objectivity of its auditors review the preliminary and interim results and financial statements before they are presented to the Board receive reports from the internal and external auditors make recommendations to the Board on accounting policies make recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting for the appointment of the external auditor, the approval of their remuneration and their terms of engagement advise the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy advise the Board on current risk exposures and future risk strategy review and approve the means by which the Group and its regulated subsidiary undertakings seek to comply with their respective regulatory obligations review the adequacy and security of the arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit & Risk Committee is chaired by Mark Morris who has recent and relevant financial experience.
He worked in audit, business advisory and corporate finance before becoming a plc finance director.
The internal and external auditors, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman are invited but are not entitled to attend all meetings.
Where appropriate, other Executive Directors also attend meetings at the Chairmans invitation.
The external and internal auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns that they may have, in the absence of the Executive Directors, whether at Committee meetings or, more informally, outside of them.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 52 Governance During the year and following the issues identified in the UK in 2011, the decision was taken to extend the remit of the Committee to include risk.
The name of the Committee was changed to the Audit & Risk Committee and the terms of reference were amended to reflect the extended scope of the Committees activities.
Specifically, the following duties were added: advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy, taking account of the current and prospective macroeconomic and financial environment advising the Board on the current risk exposures and future risk strategy of the Group and its material subsidiary undertakings reviewing and approving the means by which the Group and its regulated subsidiary undertakings seek to comply with their respective regulatory obligations and periodically reviewing the effectiveness of the regulatory compliance policies of the Company.
The Committee receives regular reports from the Group Director of Risk, the Non-Executive Chair of the UK businesss Risk Committee and those responsible for risk and compliance matters across the Group.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Groups risk appetite and a revised statement and supporting policy was recommended to the Board for approval.
The Committee has implemented a policy relating to the use of the external auditors for non-audit services and monitors fees paid in respect of such services.
This policy provides that the total fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work in any financial year should not normally be more than 100% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and compliance services.
In addition, any proposed spend over a predetermined limit must be approved by the Committee.
The fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work excluding compliance services totalled 193,000 and the fees payable in respect of audit and compliance services totalled 282,000.
Further detail on the fees paid is provided in Note 7.
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external auditor has confirmed its independence as auditor of the Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit process.
The Committee reviews the performance of the external auditor annually.
Having reviewed the performance and independence of the external auditor, the Committee has recommended that Deloitte LLP be proposed for reappointment at the AGM.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53 Corporate governance Executive Committee The day to day running of the business is delegated to an Executive Committee which is led by Richard Harpin.
Other members of the Executive Committee are Martin Bennett, Johnathan Ford, Jonathan King, Rachael Hughes, Chief Executive of HomeServe Europe and Tom Rusin, Chief Executive of HomeServe USA.
The Committee has adopted formal terms of reference.
Risk Committee A Risk Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and other representatives of each business, operates across the Group and is chaired by Johnathan Ford.
Its terms of reference have been approved by the Board and its purpose is to advise the Audit & Risk Committee in respect of the Groups risk appetite, to evaluate the risk registers compiled by each of its businesses, to monitor the effectiveness of action plans for the mitigation of those risks, and to report thereon to the Audit & Risk Committee and thereafter to the Board, which retains responsibility for the overall evaluation of the Groups risk management processes.
Directors indemnities and insurance The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were in place during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
Advice for Directors The Board has established a formal procedure for Directors wishing to seek independent legal and other professional advice and all members of the Board have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Relationships with shareholders The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the Chairman and independent Senior Non-Executive Director, who are available to discuss any questions which they may have in relation to the running of the Company and who met with the top three shareholders during the year.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may contact HomeServe direct, either through the website or by telephone.
The Board recognises the need to ensure that all Directors are fully aware of the views of major shareholders.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated to Directors upon publication.
The Board receives a monthly Investor Relations report which includes an analysis of the Companys shareholder register as well as any feedback received from shareholders and analysts.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 54 Governance Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review.
Principal risks and uncertainties are detailed in the Financial review.
In addition, the Financial review includes, amongst other things, cash flow and financing information.
The Directors confirm that, after reviewing the Groups budget and projected cash flows, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has delegated the day to day management of the Company to the Group Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
The system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The issues identified in the UK business in 2011 12 indicated that there had been a breakdown in certain internal controls which gave rise to exceptional expenditure.
As reported last year, the Board commissioned a thorough review of the issues which was led by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Assurance Director.
The Board considered the outcome of this review and agreed a number of specific actions.
In addition to the general internal review, a number of specific reviews of the UK business were undertaken by external advisers.
A business improvement programme was established in 2011 12 consisting of a number of focused workstreams.
These workstreams were largely completed during 2012 13.
The Board remains committed to ensuring that the Company learns from the experiences in the UK business and has sought to ensure that the learnings are shared and policies and procedures strengthened across all territories.
A review of regulatory compliance outside the UK has commenced and it is expected that action plans to address any issues identified will be developed and delivered during 2013 14.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55 Corporate governance The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company.
This has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The key elements of the control framework and review processes in place across the Group are as follows: The Groups strategy is set by the Board and three year business plans, annual budgets and investment proposals for each business are formally prepared, reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Groups management operates a formal process for identifying, managing and reporting on operational and financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses.
Risks are reviewed in detail at local risk committees and, on an overall basis, by the Risk Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee meets quarterly and reviews a register summarising the significant risks faced by the businesses or the Group as a whole, the likelihood of those risks occurring and the steps being taken to minimise or otherwise manage those risks.
Quarterly updates are provided to the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board.
The Audit & Risk Committee meets four times a year and reviews the risk register in order to advise the Board on current risk exposures and future risk strategy.
A clearly defined organisation structure is in place with clear lines of accountability and appropriate division of duties.
The Groups financial regulations specify authorisation limits for individual managers and for local Boards of management, with all material transactions being approved by the Board.
Weekly telephone meetings of the Executive Committee monitor day to day performance, and full Executive Committee meetings are held at least eight times a year at which the Directors report on the progress of the companies or discipline for which they are responsible and share best practice.
Consolidated financial results, including a comparison with budgets and forecasts, are reported to the Board on a monthly basis, with variances being identified and understood so that mitigating actions can be implemented, where appropriate.
The consolidated accounts are reviewed by the Executive Directors and verified by the finance team.
The accounts are then considered by the Audit & Risk Committee which makes a recommendation in respect of their approval to the Board.
The Board then reviews and approves the accounts prior to the announcement of the half year and annual results.
The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function which reports directly to the Audit & Risk Committee and a formal audit plan is in place to address the key risks across the Group.
Appropriate treasury policies are in place.
A whistle blowing policy allows employees, franchisees and sub-contractors who wish to raise any issues of concern relating to the Groups activities to do so on a confidential basis by contacting an external hotline.
A mechanism exists to extend the Groups formal risk management processes to any significant new business acquired or established immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
In this way, the Board is able to confirm that the necessary process has been operated by the Group for the whole of the year.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 56 Governance As required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has carried out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The processes applied by the Board include: At the end of the year, the Executive Directors compile a report identifying the key risks faced by the Group.
This report is considered by the Audit & Risk Committee and by the Board before the Annual Report and Accounts is approved.
The Group has an independent Internal Audit function which reviews the overall effectiveness of the risk management process for the key risks and reports independently to the Audit & Risk Committee.
At each meeting, the Audit & Risk Committee reviews reports of the Executive Directors and the internal and external auditors on any issues identified as having a potentially substantial impact on the results of the Group, or areas of control weakness.
The Audit & Risk Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of managing financial risk and refers any risks it considers significant to the Board for its consideration.
The Risk Committee meets at least quarterly to monitor these risks and to evaluate, in detail, risk registers compiled by the Groups businesses.
The Audit & Risk Committee considers the Groups overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy and provides advice to the Board.
At least twice a year, the Audit & Risk Committee reviews the work plans and results of each of the internal and external auditors.
The Audit & Risk Committee Chairman reports the outcome of all Audit & Risk Committee meetings to the Board, which also receives minutes of all such meetings.
By Order of the Board JM Barry Gibson Chairman 21 May 2013 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 57
