Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Report of the Nominations Committee To view the Nominations Committee full terms of reference please refer to the Company website at: http: www.
The Nominations Committee played an active role during 2013.
During the year, the Committee met three times to consider: non-executive succession planning and management: the Boards current policy on diversity: the renewal of Tiffany Halls non-executive director contract: the re-appointment of directors at the 2013 AGM: and the performance of the Committee and the appropriateness of the Committees terms of reference.
Most notably perhaps, the Committees selection and recommendation to the Board for Richard Pennycook to be appointed as director and Chairman of the Audit Committee demonstrated the execution of the Boards strategy for non-executive succession planning and the refreshing of the Board.
In replacing Angus Cockburn, the Committee needed to identify a non-executive director with the requisite financial experience and gravitas to become both a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Richard has a wealth of executive and non-executive experience as well as his demonstrable financial and strategic skills.
The process for Richards appointment is set out below in accordance with Code Provision B.
In light of the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code regarding gender targets, the Committee revisited the diversity policy on behalf of the Board which had been codified in 2011 in response to the first iteration of the Davies Report.
The Committee concluded and recommended to the Board that the existing policy remained appropriate for the Company given the size and structure of the Board.
The diversity policy is set out in more detail below.
COMPOSITION AND FUNCTION OF THE COMMITTEE Composition of In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, the Nominations Committee consists of five the Committee members: the Chairman of the Board, who in accordance with provision B.
2.1 of the Code also chairs the Committee, and the independent non-executive directors.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, other individuals such as the Chief Executive and external advisers may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
Appointments to the Committee shall be for a period of up to three years, which may be extended for two further three-year periods, provided the director remains independent.
Function The Committee keeps under review the size, composition and structure of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board for all new appointments and reappointments.
In recent years, the Board as a whole has chosen to consider executive succession planning rather than delegate it to the Nominations Committee.
During the year, the Board engaged leadership consulting firm Heidrick and Struggles to undertake a detailed talent management evaluation programme on the members of the Executive Committee.
The Board remain committed to ensuring there are no skills gaps at Executive level and that there is a robust talent pipeline in support of the Executive.
Heidrick and Struggles has no other connection with the Company.
71 Report of the Nominations Committee continued NON-EXECUTIVE TENURE STATED FIGURES ARE TO 28 DECEMBER 2013 Michael Wemms Tiffany Hall Mark Allen Richard Pennycook Years on Board 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 As stated previously, the Nominations Committee remains committed to a programme of reviewing and refreshing the make-up of the non-executive membership of the Board to ensure that there is sufficient balance between the introduction of fresh perspective and ensuring continuity and stability.
Where possible, the Board will ensure a phased transition of non-executives in order to avoid wholesale changes to the make-up of the Board to the possible detriment of the Company.
With this in mind and given the length of Michael Wemms tenure on the Board, with effect from the end of the 2014 AGM, I am pleased to announced that Tiffany Hall will take over from Michael Wemms as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
We are extremely grateful to Michael for his excellent work in this role over the years and are delighted that he will remain on the Board as a director supporting Tiffany in this transition.
Towards the end of next year, the Board will look for a candidate to replace Michael as he comes to the end of his third three-year term as a nonexecutive director.
DIVERSITY Boardroom diversity The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that there is diversity of perspective, background and approach in its management team and on its Board.
Since the business was established in 1995 it has sought to enable individuals to progress within the organisation regardless of age, gender, background or formal qualifications.
We have appointed one female director and two male directors to our Board since May 2010, which means that currently 14% of Board members are women.
We believe that it is in the interests of the business and of its shareholders for us to build a stable, cohesive and representative Board.
Whilst the setting of targets on particular aspects of diversity may be relevant in many cases, we feel that this could be given inappropriate focus within the context of a smaller board resulting in the possible overlooking of certain well-qualified candidates.
The Nominations Committee will continue to seek diversity of mindset as well as of gender and background when considering new appointments in the period to 2015.
More widely, we are committed to developing a long-term pipeline of executive talent that reflects the diversity of Howdens business and of all its stakeholders.
72 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Employee diversity policy The Group promotes the importance of diversity and adopts an Equal Opportunities Policy under which training and career development opportunities are available to all employees, regardless of gender, religion or race.
The Group is committed to meeting the code of practice on the employment of disabled people and full and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment.
It aims to do all that is practicable to meet its responsibility towards the employment and training of disabled people and welcomes, and considers fully, applications by disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
It is also the Groups policy to retain employees who may become disabled while in service and to provide appropriate training.
Gender statistics A Group-wide breakdown of gender statistics for all employees as at year end is as follows see Strategic Report on page 24 : Female Male % of Female Total employees employees employees Board 7 1 6 14.3% Executive Committee members including directors of the main Board 8 3 5 37.5% Executive Committee members excluding directors of the main Board 6 3 3 50.0% Senior Management group 104 21 83 20.2% Group Total 6,601 1,705 4,896 25.8% T he Senior Management group includes employee Grades 13 on the Hays evaluation basis and divisional, regional and area sales managers.
It does not include members of the Board or the Executive Committee.
APPOINTMENT PROCESS With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
During the year, the Company engaged Russell Reynolds Associates, an executive search agency, to assist with the identification of candidates with the requisite financial experience to replace Angus Cockburn.
Short-listed candidates met with all executive and non-executive directors prior to the deliberations of the Nominations Committee.
Having considered the merits of all of the candidates including relevant experience and diversity of perspective, the Committee made its recommendation to the Board.
Russell Reynolds has no other connection with the Company.
73 Report of the Nominations Committee continued DIRECTOR INDUCTION New appointments to the Board undertake an induction programme tailored to the needs of the individual.
Richard Pennycooks induction programme consisted of two parts: first, provision of a mixture of documentation including company publications, Board materials and some formal information for Company directors.
Secondly, he was invited to a number of site visits and meetings with members of the Executive Committee, key employees and advisors.
During the induction, Richard visited our manufacturing sites, our distribution centre and a depot.
The Groups induction programme for newly appointed directors will continue to be centred on familiarisation with the Groups operations, key individuals and external advisers.
ONGOING TRAINING The Chairman meets with individual directors annually to discuss, amongst other things, individual training and development needs.
Ongoing training and development for the directors includes attendance at formal conferences and internal events as well as briefings from external advisers.
Directors are also encouraged to attend external seminars and briefings as part of their continuous professional development.
The non-executive directors are also encouraged to meet with Howdens employees at all levels in order to maintain a broad purview of the business.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS As stated in the Corporate Governance report, all of the directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and each will offer themself for re-election in accordance with Article 118 of the Articles of Association, with the exception of Richard Pennycook who was appointed during the year and will offer himself for election at the AGM in accordance with Article 117.
In proposing their re-election, the Chairman confirms that the Nominations Committee has considered the formal performance evaluation in respect of those directors seeking re-election and the contribution and commitment of the directors that are required to offer themselves for re-election.
He has confirmed to the Board that their performance and commitment is such that the Company should support their re-election.
Information on the directors service agreements, options and interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company, is set out in the separate Directors remuneration report on pages 37 to 57.
Details of indemnity provisions made for the benefit of directors are given in the Corporate Governance report on pages 58 to 64.
Will Samuel Chairman of the Nominations Committee 26 February 2014 74
