Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Report of the Audit Committee To view the Audit Committee terms of the 2012 audit and report and COMPOSITION of reference please refer to the accounts, as well as the 2013 In compliance with the Code and Company website at: http: www.
half-yearly report and accounts the Committees terms of reference, .
com and associated audit opinions.
during the year the Audit Committee investors governance audit.
Following Angus resignation as comprised wholly of independent a director of the Company, I was non-executive directors: Angus The Board is dependent on the Audit appointed Chairman and assumed Cockburn resigned 18 September, Committee to review the Groups responsibility for the Committee Richard Pennycook appointed internal financial controls, to assess prior to the year-end audit planning 18 September, Michael Wemms, the work and independence of the process and review of the 2013 Tiffany Hall, and Mark Allen.
external auditor, the effectiveness Annual Report and Accounts.
The quorum for business is two of the internal audit function and members.
Subject to successful risk management processes, and Angus Cockburn is a qualified annual re-election to the Board to ensure integrity of the financial chartered accountant and is as provided by the UK Corporate reporting.
As such it is crucial that Chief Financial Officer at Aggreko Governance Code, appointments to the Committee conducts itself in an plc.
I am a Fellow of the Institute the Audit Committee are for a period informed and efficient way.
of Chartered Accountants in of three years and are extendable by England and Wales, completing my two additional three year periods.
This Report of the Audit Committee accounting qualifications in 1987. provides an overview of the makeI have been a Finance Director for An induction programme is provided up and function of the Committee.
over 20 years, most of that time as for new Audit Committee members It also details the significant audit a Public Company Finance Director, as part of the wider induction to issues and any other matters it and am currently the Group CFO of the Board.
Upon appointment to considered during the year.
The Co-operative Group as well as the Committee, Richard Pennycook Chairman of the Audit Committee at attended meetings with key ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN Persimmon PLC, the FTSE 100 house members of the finance, governance OF THE COMMITTEE builder.
As such the Board considers and audit teams, including the The Chairman of the Audit that Angus and I both had the Head of Internal Audit and Risk, Committee is responsible for requisite recent and relevant financial the external lead audit partner, the determining the Committees experience during the year to satisfy Group Financial Controller and the agenda and for maintaining the key Provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Company Secretary.
relationships between the Groups Governance Code.
The Board also senior management, Head of Risk considers that, during the year, We review membership of the and Internal Audit, the Company we had the commercial, financial Committee as part of the review Secretary and senior representatives and audit experience necessary to of Board effectiveness.
This of the external auditor.
To that end, address any complex accounting, years external independent he is also responsible for ensuring audit and risk issues which may arise.
review concluded that the current that key audit issues are reported to mix of financial and commercial As Chairman, it is also my role to the Board in an effective and timely experience of the Audit Committee, engage through the year in individual manner and that they are reported to and that of its advisors, is such conversations with senior members shareholders via this report.
that the Committee can effectively of the finance function, the internal exercise its responsibilities to During the year, the Audit Committee audit team, the company secretarial the Group in relation to risk has had two Chairmen.
Until 18 department and the external auditors and controls.
The Committee is September, Angus Cockburn was in order to gain an assessment of permitted by its terms of reference Chairman of the Committee and the issues arising which should be to obtain independent external 65 as such had responsibility for the considered by the Committee.
advice at the Groups expense.
Committee during the assessment Report of the Audit Committee continued The Audit Committees terms SUMMARY OF THE ROLE OF THE ensuring that information flows of reference include all matters AUDIT COMMITTEE from the senior management and indicated by Disclosure and external auditors are such that The Audit Committee is responsible Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
the information the Committee for ensuring that the Groups A new iteration of the Committees receives is complete, accurate, financial systems provide accurate terms of reference was approved timely and robust: and up-to-date information, that at our meeting in December 2013 the Groups published financial monitoring and reviewing the which had been updated having statements represent a true and effectiveness of the Groups taken into account the ICSAs best fair reflection of this position and internal audit function: practice revised Terms of Reference for ensuring the effectiveness and for Audit Committees.
rigorousness of the internal control making recommendations to framework on behalf of the Board.
the Board in relation to the MEETINGS appointment of the external auditor Specifically, the Audit Committee is The Audit Committee met three and approving the remuneration responsible for: times during 2013, in conjunction and terms of engagement of the with the annual reporting cycle.
The external auditor: monitoring the integrity of the agenda was predominantly linked financial statements of the Group to events in the Groups financial reviewing and monitoring and any formal announcements the external auditors calendar but, as in previous years, relating to the Groups financial we sought to ensure the agenda in independence and objectivity performance and reviewing and the effectiveness of the audit 2013 was as fresh and relevant as significant financial reporting possible incorporating elements process, taking into consideration judgements contained therein relevant UK professional and of training and professional although the Board as a development for the Committee as regulatory requirements: whole remains responsible well as reviewing specific areas of for determining whether the reviewing the external auditors the business where appropriate.
Annual Report and Accounts as audit risks and Audit Committee Each Committee member retains a whole are fair, balanced and reports: and the right to require reports on understandable : matters of interest in addition to the developing and implementing agenda approved by the Committee reviewing the Groups internal a policy on the engagement of Chairman as well as the annually financial controls and the Groups the external auditor to supply recurring items.
internal control systems: non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance The Chairman of the Board along reviewing the Groups risk regarding the provision of nonwith the Chief Executive, Chief management processes, systems audit services by the external Financial Officer, the Head of Risk and reports although the Board audit firm.
and Internal Audit, representatives as a whole remains responsible for from the Finance function and senior overseeing the overall risk profile We are also responsible for reporting representatives of the external of the business : to the Board, identifying any auditors are regularly invited to matters in respect of which action reviewing the Going Concern attend all or part of our meetings or improvement is needed, making as and when appropriate.
The report prior to consideration recommendations as to the steps by the Board: Audit Committee reserves the right to be taken and monitoring the to request any non-members to effectiveness of any resulting activity.
66 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 OVERVIEW OF THE ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE TO DISCHARGE ITS DUTIES During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities through the following activities: Financial reviewing the Groups annual report and financial statements, the half-yearly financial report published in Reporting and July 2013 and the interim management statements.
As part of this review we received a report from Deloitte on their audit of the annual report and financial statements and review of the half-yearly financial report External Audit which took into account the Groups key risks and going concern considerations: reviewing the processes necessary to ensure that the Board is able to confirm that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: considering the processes in place to generate forecasts of cash flow and accounting valuation information, including the choice and consistent use of key assumptions.
A description of the Groups significant accounting policies can be found in note 2 of the consolidated financial statements on pages 83 to 87: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls with specific reference to controls in place on a divisional basis and reviewing the disclosures made in the annual report and financial statements on this matter: receiving reports from the external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of judgement and their comments on risk and the effectiveness of internal controls: reviewing the proposed plan of work presented by the external auditors, including audit risks, terms of engagement and fees: undertaking an assessment of the qualification, expertise and resources, and independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
This included consideration of a report on the audit firms own quality control procedures and the audit firms annual transparency report: assessing the risk of a possible withdrawal of the external auditors from the market: and holding confidential sessions with the independent auditors and the head of internal audit in the absence of executive directors and Company executives.
Internal Audit reviewing the processes used by the Group for identifying, evaluating and mitigating risks: and Control receiving reports from the Internal Audit function on its work and monitoring the status of actions taken in response to its findings: receiving reports from internal audit on the controls in place to mitigate fraud risk: receiving reports from our divisional Finance Directors in respect of the control environment within their divisions, including an IS control update from external consultants: receiving a presentation from the Head of Risk on the risk environment: assessing the coverage of independent assurance by reviewing the Group assurance map: review of business continuity management provisions: and reviewing activity reported under the Groups whistleblowing policy.
Governance external review of effectiveness as an Audit Committee as part of the Boards evaluation process: receiving updates from the external auditor on latest governance practices for Audit Committees and changes in statutory reporting requirements: and reviewing the Committees terms of reference and recommending that an updated version taking into account the ICSAs Terms of Reference for Audit Committees be approved by the Board.
67 Report of the Audit Committee continued We invite senior management from the business to come and talk about the financial controls in their business areas.
During 2013, the Finance Director and Head of Compliance of the Trade division presented on the control environments in their area.
As in previous years, experts from Deloitte were invited to update the Committee on recent developments in the areas of governance, accounting and reporting.
All members of the Committee are members of the Deloitte Academy which provides in depth updates on financial and reporting matters.
AREAS OF SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL JUDGEMENT CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR The Committee recognises that some areas of accounting require judgements to be exercised.
In relation to the Group, the principle areas of judgement relate to recoverability of trade debtors, inventory obsolescence, legacy property provisions and actuarial assumptions.
It is the policy of the Board that a conservative approach be taken in all areas requiring judgement.
The Audit Committee considered the following key areas of significant financial judgement during the year: Given the make-up of the receivables ledger being a high number of relatively small accounts, the Recoverability recoverability of trade debtors and the level of provisioning for bad and doubtful debts were regularly of trade reviewed by the Board.
The Committee received updates from management on the ageing debtor debtors profile, provisioning levels and the level of bad-debt write-off.
They received reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk in relation to managements treatment of credit control and the collection of outstanding debts.
The Committee also reviewed the work done by the external auditor on trade receivables to confirm both existence and recoverability.
These matters were also discussed with the Chief Financial Officer and the external auditor.
The valuation of inventory, including the existence of obsolete and excess stock and the appropriateness Valuation of of the judgements applied within the obsolescence provision were regularly considered by the Board.
inventory The Committee reviewed the management reports used to value and confirm the existence of inventory.
They also received reports from the external auditor on inventory in considering the appropriateness of provisions held against the carrying value of inventory, having regard to the age of discontinued lines and volumes of continuing lines relative to the expected usage.
Vacant The Committee assessed the judgements around future costs including dilapidations and closure costs and the timing of potential future landlord settlements on the remaining leases on the guaranteed and property excluded properties.
Both the Board and Audit Committee received regular updates on the remaining vacant provisions properties, concluding that the strategy to exit leases early where possible continued to be appropriate.
Actuarial The Committee considered and approved the appropriateness of the actuarial valuations for the defined benefit pension scheme prepared for compliance with the relevant accounting and disclosure assumptions requirements and the assessment of the appropriateness of the assumptions used.
The Committee reviewed reports from the Pensions Sub-Committee and external auditor which considered the appropriateness of the assumptions.
The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out above have been fully and adequately addressed by the Executive Committee, appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and the disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts were appropriate.
68 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 EXTERNAL AUDITOR fee.
This is in part due to the audit lead statutory audit partner related assurance review of the last changed in March 2012 at As a Committee we are responsible interim accounts c8% of the total the end of the 2011 year end for the development, implementation non-audit fee but in the main due audit in accordance with the and monitoring of the Groups policy to fees charged in respect of the ethical standards: on external audit in line with relevant aforementioned tax advice c58% ethical standards and guidance.
The consideration of the effectiveness of the total non-audit fee.
Given the current policy sets out the categories of the external auditors through specific nature of the fees incurred, of non-audit services which the a review of their plan of work and and having reviewed the safeguards external auditors will and will not the outputs arising from the audit: Deloitte LLP has in place to protect be allowed to provide to the Group, their independence as auditors, subject to fide-minimis levels.
All consideration of the overall extent we are satisfied this work has not relevant fees proposed by the external of non-audit services provided by impaired their independence.
auditors must be reported to and the external auditors, in addition approved by the Audit Committee.
to case by case approval of the The Audit Committee also has a provision of non-audit services policy in relation to the employment During the year, the external auditors as appropriate: and of former members of the external continued to provide tax advice audit team.
This policy states that, relating to the Groups obligations consideration of the likelihood of whilst the Group would not normally in respect of former MFI properties a withdrawal of the auditor from employ a former member of the and its overseas subsidiaries.
We the market and note taken of the external audit team, if appropriate, reviewed the ongoing nature and fact that there are no contractual individual cases may be considered cost of this work during the year.
obligations to restrict the choice by the Chairman of the Committee The Committee approved the of external auditors.
continued involvement of Deloitte To assess the effectiveness of the LLP in this regard as it was We recognise that auditor concluded they were best placed external auditor, we reviewed: independence is an essential part to supply such tax services in a of the audit framework and the the arrangements for ensuring the cost effective manner due to the assurance it provides.
To fulfil external auditors independence experience and qualifications of the our responsibilities regarding the and objectivity: individuals providing such services, independence of the external their knowledge of the Group and auditors, we undertook a the external auditors fulfilment its tax affairs and the best interests of the agreed audit plan and any comprehensive review during 2013 of the Group were served by encompassing the following: variations from the plan: engaging them.
review of the independence of the perceptions of the auditor Details of Deloitte LLPs fees for and audit process from key the external auditors and the audit and non-audit work during arrangements which Deloitte LLP management personnel in the 2013 are included in note 7 to the finance function: have in place to identify, report financial statements on page 90. and manage conflicts of interest: No services were provided by the robustness and perceptiveness the external auditor pursuant to review of the changes in key of the auditor in their handling contingent fee arrangements.
of the key accounting and audit external audit staff for the current year and the arrangements for judgements: and The Board recognises that the the day-to-day management fees relating to non-audit services the content of the external of the audit relationship.
The are in excess of the total audit auditors report on internal control.
69 Report of the Audit Committee continued The external audit was last tendered INTERNAL AUDIT The Groups whistleblowing policy in 2002.
This resulted in a change contains arrangements for the We are also required to assist the to the Groups external auditor, Head of Internal Audit to receive, Board to fulfil its responsibilities with Deloitte LLP replacing the in confidence, complaints on relating to the adequacy of the previous incumbent audit firm.
The accounting, risk issues, internal resourcing and plans of the Internal Audit Committee is mindful of the controls, auditing issues and related Audit department.
During the year, provisions relating to audit tendering matters for reporting to the Audit we reviewed: in the UK Corporate Governance Committee as appropriate.
Issues Code and the FRCs Guidance on Internal Audits programme of raised and investigated under Audit Committees to put the external work and progress made against this policy were formally reviewed audit contract out to tender at least planned activity: during the year.
The Committee every ten years.
reviewed and approved the Groups results of key audits and other whistleblowing policy during the year.
The FRC guidelines provide that significant findings including audit tendering should normally the adequacy and timeliness of OVERVIEW fit the five year cycle of lead audit managements response: As a result of its work during partner rotation.
Our current lead the year, the Audit Committee the level and nature of assurance audit partner has now completed has concluded that it has acted activity performed by Internal two years of a five year cycle.
Taking in accordance with its terms of Audit: and this into account, and on the basis reference and has ensured the of our work above, we concluded staffing, reporting and independence and objectivity of the that the independence criteria under effectiveness of divisional audits.
I will be available the relative standards continued to at the Annual General Meeting to be met and accordingly it was not During the year, the Committee answer any questions about the necessary to tender for the audit considered the effectiveness of work of the Audit Committee.
The Committee the Internal Audit function and the has therefore unanimously Internal Audit three-year plan.
The Richard Pennycook recommended to the Board that a Committee concluded that the Chairman of the Audit Committee proposal be put to the shareholders function remained effective, well-led at the Annual General Meeting and had a well-defined remit.
An 26 February 2014 that Deloitte LLP be reappointed independent review of the Internal as external auditor and that the Audit function was last undertaken directors be authorised to fix their by  in 2012. remuneration.
At the year end the An external review of this function is external auditor formally confirmed conducted every five years.
their independence and objectivity had been maintained.
