Corporate governance report STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE of how we operate in our local Each of the Boards formal communities is set out in the CSR Committees has a dedicated report The Company remains committed report on pages 25 to 32.
It is on this and therefore any information to the principles of corporate basis, and for the protection of the relating to Audit, Remuneration or governance contained in the UK interests of all of our stakeholders, Nominations Committee matters Corporate Governance Code the that our corporate governance can be found therein.
Code for which the Board is structures are established.
THE BOARD It is also a primary responsibility Throughout the 52 weeks ended Role of the Board, through the 28 December 2013, the Company The business of the Company is proper exercise of its corporate has been in compliance with managed by the Board who may governance responsibilities, to the provisions set out in the exercise all the powers of the promote the long-term success Code applicable to accounting Company subject to the provision of the Company.
The Board must periods commencing on or after of the Articles of Association, the remain vigilant in ensuring that the 1 October 2012.
Companies Act and any ordinary requisite structural safeguards are resolution of the Company.
The Company has applied the in place to protect the interests of principles set out in the Code, our shareholders and realise the The Board has responsibility including both the main and full potential of the business.
for the overall management and supporting principles, by complying performance of the Howden We have stated previously that, as a with the Code as reported above.
They are collectively locally empowered, entrepreneurial responsible for challenging and Examples of how the principles and business, Howden Joinery is reliant assisting in the development of supporting principles have been on a strong, effective and consistent strategy and ensuring that there are applied are set out below and in the governance culture throughout the sufficient resources in place to meet Remuneration report and Committee business, and this remains the case.
the strategic objectives which have reports.
The Board received a formal The Board is responsible for leading been set.
update in November 2012 on the the corporate governance agenda amendments made to the Code and ensuring that the values and The directors are also responsible by the FRC during the year and standards which characterise our for determining the nature and continue to apply the Code in the culture and are the foundation of our extent of significant risks and spirit in which it was adopted.
success are understood and shared maintaining sound risk management throughout the business.
The dayand internal control procedures INTRODUCTION FROM to-day application of these values throughout the Group.
THE CHAIRMAN and standards is to the benefit of all who have a stake in Howdens.
Worthwhile for all concerned The Board reviews the performance of and provides This report sets out in detail the Howdens approach to all our key counsel to the senior management structure of the current Board, stakeholders, who include our in their day-to-day running of the Groups approach to risk and shareholders, our customers, our the business, and is ultimately internal control and, for the first business partners, our employees, responsible for the safeguarding time, it provides some detail on our pensioners, their families and of its shareholders interests and our shareholder base and share the communities in which we ensuring its own effectiveness.
The purpose of work, is that Howdens should be a this is to provide a more holistic worthwhile enterprise worthwhile Decisions reserved for consideration view of the Company structure for all concerned.
This fundamental by the Board are detailed in a 58 in a governance context.
principle underpins the way we run schedule which is reviewed annually.
A detailed review Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 This schedule was last reviewed wide range of skills and experience primarily responsible for leadership and approved in January 2014 to the Board and all actively of the Board and has a pivotal having been updated taking into contribute in discussion.
role in creating the conditions account the ICSAs revised schedule for individual director and board The Board considered that the of matters best practice example.
effectiveness including ensuring a following directors were deemed to These matters include decisions culture of openness and debate in be independent during the period: about strategy, acquisition and the boardroom.
The Chairman is disposals, risk management and responsible for setting the Boards Mark Allen internal control, capital projects over agenda and works closely with the a defined level, annual budgets, Company Secretary in this regard.
Angus Cockburn Group borrowing facilities and He ensures that adequate time for resigned 18 September 2013 consideration of significant financial discussion is afforded to all agenda Tiffany Hall and operational matters.
It is also the Board also considers legislative, responsibility of the Chairman to Richard Pennycook environmental, health & safety, ensure effective communication appointed 18 September 2013 governance and employment issues.
The executive directors, and in particular the Michael Wemms Board composition Chief Executive, are responsible for Senior Independent Director The Board is structured to ensure satisfactory execution of the policies that there is a clear distinction and strategy agreed by the Board.
The Chairman, Will Samuel, was between the strategic functions considered to be independent on of the Board and the operational In accordance with the Code, appointment as outlined in the Code.
The the Board has established At all times during the period the Board currently comprises two Audit, Remuneration and Company adhered to provision executive directors, the Chairman Nominations Committees, each B.
1.2 of the Code which provides and four non-executive directors.
with defined terms of reference.
that at least half of the Board Details of the individual directors The membership and terms of excluding the Chairman must be can be found on pages 33 to 34. reference of these committees are independent and to the provisions of reviewed annually and are available the Code relating to the composition Will Samuel was the non-executive on the Groups website at http: of the Audit, Remuneration and Chairman during the whole period.
The Executive directors work of each of these committees The Board is proposing that all of There were no changes to the is considered in individual the directors will be subject to reexecutive directors during the period.
election at the 2014 AGM, with the Matthew Ingle and Mark Robson exception of Richard Pennycook continued in their roles as Chief The Board has also established a who was appointed by the Board Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Pensions Committee dealing with during the year and will therefore Mr Ingle was appointed to the Board matters associated with the Groups offer himself for election at the AGM in 1998: Mr Robson in 2005. pension scheme more detail on in accordance with Article 117 of the the work of this Committee can be Non-executive directors Companys articles of association.
found on page 75 and a Disclosure The non-executive directors have Committee which considers matters Division of responsibilities been selected for the diversity of which could give rise to an obligation The roles of Chairman and Chief their backgrounds as well as their to make a market announcement Executive are separate and personal attributes and experience.
under the FCA Listing Rules.
The Chairman is 59 The current board members bring a Corporate governance report continued In addition to these standing the Groups strategy and operational Attendance committees, the Group has an plans.
The Committee monitors The Board holds regular meetings Executive Committee comprising the operational and financial and receives accurate and timely those members detailed on page performance of the business, as information.
The principal purpose of the well as being responsible for the held seven formal Board meetings Committee, which meets at least optimisation of resources and and a number of other meetings twice a month, or more frequently if the identification and control of and teleconferences to discuss and required, is the implementation of operational risk within the Group.
review progress on issues affecting the Group during the year.
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Will Samuel 7 7 2 2 Matthew Ingle 7 7 Mark Robson 7 7 Mark Allen 7 7 2 3 3 3 2 2 Angus Cockburn 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Tiffany Hall 7 7 3 3 3 3 2 2 Richard Pennycook 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Michael Wemms 7 7 3 3 3 3 2 2 Denotes Chairman.
Angus Cockburn was Audit Committee Chairman for the February and July Audit Committee meetings and until 18 September 2013.
Richard Pennycook was Audit Committee Chairman thereafter and was Chairman of the December Audit Committee meeting.
The table above shows the number and are able to discuss the issues The review was conducted within a of meetings individual directors arising directly with the Chairman methodology previously agreed by could have attended taking account and executive directors.
The nonthe Board and comprised: of eligibility, appointment and executive directors also met twice a review of Board and retirement dates during the year during the year without the executive Committee papers: and their actual attendance.
Committees, only the attendance a series of interviews with all Board evaluation of members of that committee is Board members, members of A formal review of the Boards shown, although other directors, management, external advisors effectiveness was conducted by an where appropriate, have often also and shareholders: and external consultant, Independent attended at the invitation of the Audit Limited, following the chairman of the committee.
observation of the Board September Board meeting in and Committee meetings If a director is unable to attend a accordance provision B.
6.2 of the on 12 November and meeting, they are nevertheless Code which requires an external 3 December 2013. provided with all the papers and facilitation every three years.
information relating to the meeting 60 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 The evaluation addressed key Independent Audit Limited has no and all of the directors make topics which included: other connection with the Company.
themselves available for meetings with shareholders as required.
the size, balance and dynamics Directors indemnity & insurance of the Board: In accordance with the Articles The Companys updated of Association, the Company corporate website www.
an overview of protocol, debate has provided indemnities to the .
com and decision making at Board and directors to the extent permitted includes a specific investor relations Committee meetings: by the Companies Act in respect of section and provides an effective the performance of the Chairman, liabilities incurred as a result of their channel for communication with Senior Independent Director, office.
In addition the Company existing and potential investors.
Board Committees and of maintains appropriate insurance The Board receives regular individual directors: cover against legal action brought reports from the CFO with against it or its subsidiaries, regard to relations with the major the Boards approach to strategy directors and officers.
Neither the shareholders and developments and to risk governance: indemnity nor insurance provides and changes in their shareholdings.
the oversight by the Board cover in the event that the director The Board also commissions of financial and operational is proved to have acted dishonestly regular feedback reports from the performance, and of the issues or fraudulently.
Companys joint brokers, UBS around resources, people, and JP Morgan Cazenove.
behaviour and culture: SHAREHOLDERS AND Substantial shareholdings SHARE CAPITAL company secretarial support and As at 26 February 2014, the Board information: Relations with shareholders Company had been notified in The Board considers its relationship the quality of external advisors: and accordance with Chapter 5 of the with both institutional and private Disclosure & Transparency Rules, shareholder focus.
investors to be important and readily of the following voting rights as a enters into dialogue with investors.
shareholder of the Company: The report of the evaluation was On behalf of the Board, the presented to the Board in January Company has consulted extensively Standard Life 2014 and the Board accepted with its principal shareholders during Investments Ltd 10.94% its findings.
Subsequent to the the course of 2013 in relation to the review, the Chairman and Company Blackrock Inc 9.99% ongoing progress of the Company Secretary implemented a number of and also in relation to identifying Legal & General Group Plc 5.78% recommendations to better facilitate appropriate executive incentive Jupiter Asset and safeguard effective behaviours arrangements.
The Company is Management Ltd 5.28% at Board level.
aware of the stewardship obligations Schroders Plc of institutional investors as set out in formerly Cazenove It should be noted that there is a the UK Stewardship Code and will Capital Management Ltd 4.86% procedure for all directors to take continue to work with its institutional independent external advice, at the Old Mutual Asset investors to ensure that they are able Companys expense, in the course Managers UK Ltd 4.11% to satisfy these requirements.
of their duties via the Company The percentage interest is as stated Secretary.
Working with the Both of the executive directors, the by the shareholder at the time of Chairman, the Company Secretary Chairman, the Senior Independent notification and current interests is responsible for ensuring that Director and a number of nonmay vary.
Board procedures are followed executive directors met with 61 and all directors have access to shareholders during the year her advice and services.
Corporate governance report continued Annual General Meeting The directors are not aware of any between 10p and the higher of a The Annual General Meeting is to agreements between holders of the 105% of the average middle market be held at UBS Investment Bank, Companys shares that may result quotation for an ordinary share as 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, in restrictions on the transfer of derived from the London Stock EC2M 2PP on 8 May 2014. securities or on voting rights.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately The Annual General Meeting Details of employee share schemes preceding the day on which the AGM provides shareholders with are set out in note 26.
Shares held ordinary share is purchased and an opportunity to discuss the by the Howden Joinery Group Plc b an amount equal to the higher Groups progress and operations Employee Share Trust abstain from of the price of the last independent directly with the Board.
No person has any special trade of an ordinary share and the the Company proposes separate rights of control over the Companys highest current independent bid for resolutions on each substantially share capital and all issued shares an ordinary share as derived from separate issue and the numbers are fully paid.
the London Stock Exchange Trading of proxy votes cast for and against System.
The authority expires at the There are a number of agreements each resolution are made available to conclusion of the next AGM or 15 that take effect, alter or terminate shareholders when voting has been months from the date of passing.
upon a change of control such as completed.
The notice of the AGM is commercial contracts, bank loan sent to shareholders at least twenty Directors and their interests agreements and employee share working days before the meeting.
Details of the directors in office on plans.
The only one of these which is 28 December 2013 are shown on Deloitte LLP have expressed their considered to be significant in terms page 52. willingness to continue in office of likely impact on the business as auditors and a resolution to of the Group as a whole, is the EMPLOYEES reappoint them will be proposed bank facility as described in note The average number of employees at the forthcoming AGM.
20 which requires majority lender and their remuneration are shown consent for any change of control.
in note 8 to the financial statements.
Share capital Details of the issued share capital, Should such consent not be At the year end, the Group had 6,601 together with details of the forthcoming, a change of control employees 2012: 6,300 throughout movements in the Companys issued would trigger a mandatory the United Kingdom and overseas share capital during the year are repayment of the entire facility.
and strives to engage its employees shown in note 23.
The Company has The directors are not aware of any wherever possible in its business one class of ordinary share which agreements between the Company goals by means of regular regional carries no right to fixed income.
and its directors or employees that and local staff meetings.
Each share carries the right to provide for compensation for loss one vote at general meetings of of office or employment that occurs The Board remains committed the Company.
to linking reward to business budgets and targets thereby giving There are no specific restrictions Acquisition of the employees the opportunity to share on the size of a holding nor on the Companys own shares in the financial success of the transfer of shares which are both At the end of the year, the Group.
In keeping with the structure governed by the general provisions directors had authority under of the business, the Company is of the Articles of Association and the shareholders resolutions of committed to applying this policy prevailing legislation.
The Articles 9 May 2013 to purchase through the locally, and as a result, staff of may be amended by special market 64,201,606 of the Companys all levels regularly benefit from 62 resolution of the shareholders.
ordinary shares at prices ranging Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 achieving local targets throughout A description of the Groups each division.
The Board also recognises principal risk and uncertainties each business areas objectives employees for their contribution can be found on pages 22 to 24 are identified and scored for through the use of employee of the Strategy Report.
The key incentive plans and share plans controls to manage the risks to Risk management within overall remuneration.
the desired level are identified.
The Board can confirm that, for the 2013 financial year and up to A local database of risks and RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL the date of approval of the Annual controls is maintained within The Board is responsible for the Report and financial statements, each operating division and Groups system of internal control there has been an ongoing process central service function.
This is and for reviewing its effectiveness, for identifying, evaluating and consolidated into a central register whilst the role of management is managing the significant risks faced which becomes the key risk to implement Board policies on by the Group which is reviewed register for the Group.
The Group risk and control.
Such a system is, regularly by the Board and accords Risk department facilitates the however, designed to manage rather with the Turnbull Guidance.
Under identification of these risks and than eliminate the risks of failure the guidance of the Chief Financial provides an independent appraisal to achieve business objectives.
In Officer, it is the responsibility of the interpretation of the scoring pursuing these objectives, internal of the Executive Committee to mechanism, to ensure that the controls can only provide reasonable review the effectiveness of the key risks are brought forward assurance against misstatement or risk management process and to the Executive Committee.
The UK Corporate Governance internal controls on behalf of the The Executive Committee then Code recommends that the Board.
The Executive Committee reviews the key risks to assess Board at least annually reviews regularly reports to the Board on the effectiveness of the risk the effectiveness of the Groups how risks are being managed.
system of internal controls, including addition, there is a mechanism in financial, operational and compliance The senior management team place to report significant control controls and risk management.
within each division and within the breakdowns or risk occurrences central functions are responsible to the Executive Committee.
The Board has conducted reviews for the ongoing review of their of the effectiveness of the system An ongoing process for the functions risk registers.
Regular of internal controls through the effective management of risk has reporting on internal and external processes described below and is been defined by the Board and is changes that affect the risks or their satisfied that it accords both with embedded throughout the various importance to the business, and the Code and with the Turnbull tiers of the organisation.
It is any risk occurrences, are reported Guidance.
The Board has not operated in the following stages: upwards through their register to identified or been advised of any the Executive Committee.
failings or weaknesses which it Each operating division and has determined to be significant: central function identifies key Key risks and their management therefore a confirmation in respect risks through the adoption of and any areas for improvement are of necessary actions has not been both a bottom-up and topregularly reported to and discussed considered appropriate.
These key risks at the Executive Committee.
are regularly reviewed by the senior management team in 63 Corporate governance report continued A review of the risk process The Audit Committee meets and risk management systems regularly and its responsibilities is undertaken by the Audit are set out in the Audit Committee Committee annually.
It receives reports from the Internal Audit function on the Key risks arising within the results of work carried out under an business are formally discussed by annually agreed audit programme.
the Group Board every six months The Audit Committee has full and given that overall risk is a matter independent access to the internal reserved for the Board as a whole.
In order to gain assurance that The Internal Audit function the Groups risk process is facilitates a process whereby effective a periodic review of operating entities provide certified both the Audit and Risk Process statements of compliance with is conducted by an appropriately specified and appropriate key qualified and experienced external financial controls.
These controls assurance service provider.
This are then cyclically tested by is conducted every five years and Internal Audit to ensure they was last undertaken during 2012 remain effective, and are being by .
Internal control The Audit Committee will annually The Group has an established assess the effectiveness of the framework of internal controls, which assurance provided by the internal includes the following key elements: and external auditors.
Every five years, an external assessment The Board reviews Group strategy is undertaken with regard to the and the executive management assurance provided by the Internal are accountable for performance Audit department.
An external within the agreed strategy.
review was last undertaken by  in 2012.
The Group and its subsidiaries operate control procedures Will Samuel designed to ensure complete and Chairman of the Board accurate accounting of financial transactions, and to limit exposure 26 February 2014 to loss of assets or fraud.
Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duties in key areas and periodic Internal Audit reviews.
