Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Composition and Frequency of Meetings Our work during 2013 was focused on the integrity of the The Committee comprises the independent non-executive Groups financial reporting, the independence and Directors of the Company: John Nicholas Committee chairman, effectiveness of the external and internal audit activities, John Hofmeister and Andrew Szescila.
Mr Nicholas has a the Groups risk management processes and assessing professional accounting qualification and is considered to have the Groups internal controls.
We have also considered recent and relevant financial experience: further details can be whether to submit the Group audit contract to tender and found in his biographical summary set out on page 45. concluded that the next rotation of audit partner is the appropriate time to do this.
The Committee met four times during the year and operates under written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are John Nicholas, Audit Committee Chairman published on the Companys website.
The Committee normally meets in March, April, August and December, and the attendance record of Committee members during the year is noted on page 52.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, internal and external auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its effectiveness and the Committee Chairman reported these findings to the Board.
Responsibilities The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: monitor and review reports from the executive Directors, including the Groups financial statements and Stock Exchange announcements: provide to the Board a recommendation about the Annual Report and Accounts and whether they are fair, balanced and understandable: monitor and review the Groups systems of internal control: review reports from the Groups external auditors: review reports from the Groups internal auditors, including details of the internal audit programme and its scope: monitor any corporate governance and accounting developments: monitor the Groups Bribery Act compliance procedures: consider and recommend to the Board the reappointment of the external auditor: agree the scope and fees of the external audit: monitor and approve engagements of the external auditor to provide non-audit services to the Group: and review the external auditors independence and effectiveness of the audit process and assess the level and quality of service in relation to fees paid.
Training During the year, the Committee received presentations on amendments to the Groups corporate reporting requirements in addition to accounting and governance developments relevant to the Companys listed status.
78 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Review of the 2013 Financial Statements The Committee has reviewed the financial statements together The Committee reviews final drafts of the Groups Report and with commentary contained within the Strategic Report set out on Accounts for both the half and full year.
As part of this process, the pages 2 to 43 and believes that the Annual Report and Accounts, performance of the Groups major divisions is considered, with key taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
In arriving judgements, estimates and accounting policies being approved by at this conclusion the Committee undertook the following: the Committee ahead of a recommendation to the Board.
review of early drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts: regular review and discussion of the financial results during the The principle significant issues reviewed by the Committee in year including briefings by Group finance and operational connection with the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts were as management: and follows: receipt and review of reports from the external and internal auditors.
Adoption of US dollars as the presentational currency of the Group The Committee advised the Board of its conclusion that the 2013 The Committee considered a report from the Finance Director Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced recommending a change of presentation currency, it reviewed the and understandable at a meeting of the Directors on 4 March 2014. changes in the composition of the Group following recent acquisitions and disposals and concluded that the proposed External Audit change was appropriate.
During the year, the Committee The external auditors present reports at the March, April, August monitored progress with the conversion and review of historic and December meetings for consideration by the Committee.
In financial data into US dollars and the preparations for the March, a full year report is considered ahead of publication of the publication of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts using US Groups Annual Report and Accounts: in April an internal control dollars.
report is presented, following the year-end audit and in August an interim report is presented which includes the proposed full year Goodwill Impairment Review audit scope and fee.
An update to the full year plan was presented As part of its annual programme of work, the Committee formally at the December meeting.
The Audit Committee considers the reviewed the carrying value of goodwill held on the Groups reappointment of the auditors annually at its March meeting and balance sheet.
The Group Financial Controller presented a report makes a recommendation to the Board.
The Committee normally which included growth and future cash flow assumptions for each meets with the external auditors without executive Directors cash generating unit.
These assumptions and sensitivities to present at the end of each formal meeting.
changes in the assumptions were considered by the Committee which concluded the goodwill attributed to each business segment The external auditors full year report includes a statement on their had not been impaired.
independence, their ability to remain objective and their ability to undertake an effective audit.
The Committee considers and Taxation assesses this independence statement on behalf of the Board, In view of the international spread of operations the Committee taking into account the level of fees paid particularly for non-audit monitors the incidence of tax risk, tax audits and provisions held services.
On 5 June 2013 the Committee received a presentation on tax strategy and risk from the Group Taxation The effectiveness of the audit was assessed at the April meeting of Manager.
The Finance Director briefs the Committee on the Committee and considered the following matters: developments during the year.
the auditors understanding of the Groups business and industry sector: Exceptional Items Charged to the Consolidated Income the planning and execution of the audit plan approved by the Statement Committee: The Group accounts have historically reported a middle column the communication between the Group and audit engagement within the Consolidated Income Statement which includes team: amortisation and exceptional items.
the auditors response to questions from the Committee: responses to a formal questionnaire on conduct of the audit The Committee considers the items included within this column to from the financial controllers of the major business: ensure consistency of treatment and adherence to accounting a report from the Finance Director and the Group Financial policy definitions of exceptional items.
The Committee also Controller: and reviews the calculation and composition of each exceptional item finalisation of the audit work ahead of completion of the Annual and has satisfied itself that they are reported appropriately.
In addition to receipt of detailed briefings and supporting reports In addition, the Committee reviewed and took account of Financial from the central finance team on these principle significant issues, Reporting Council reports on the audit firm.
After considering the Committee engages in discussion with the Groups external these matters, the Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness auditors.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 79 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued  LLP and its predecessor firms have been identified key risks.
The Group level report is based on submissions auditors to the Group for many years and since the Companys from all subsidiaries in the Group.
The Committee has considered the requirement within the UK Corporate Governance Code the All subsidiaries undertake formal self-assessment risk reviews, a Code to put the external audit contract out to tender at least minimum of three times a year, on their internal control every 10 years.
Under audit engagement partner rotation rules the environment.
These reviews are available to the Audit Committee current audit partner will retire at the conclusion of the Annual and encompass the identification of the key business, financial, General Meeting.
In anticipation of this, a new partner from compliance and operational risks facing each unit, together with an  LLP has been selected by the Audit assessment of the controls in place for managing and mitigating Committee and has shadowed the 2013 year-end work.
Additionally, risks are evaluated for their potential shareholder approval, he will undertake the audit for the 2014 impact on the business.
In order to prepare for a tender of the audit contract, the Company will offer small pieces of non-audit work to other Bribery Act Compliance firms in order to test the quality of each firm and its people.
The In compliance with the UK Bribery Act, Hunting has procedures in Audit Committee plans to put the audit out to tender no later than place, including the publication of Bribery and Corruption policies 2018 when the new partners five-year engagement cycle will be in and detailed guidelines on interacting with customers, suppliers its final year.
In making this decision, the Committee took into and agents, including specific policies for gifts, entertainment and account the statement of independence presented to the hospitality.
Senior managers across the Group are required to Committee by  LLP, and the results of the report their compliance activities, including an evaluation of risk internal assessment of the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Group has completed a screening exercise to identify Committee notes recent developments within the EU with regards relevant employees who face a heightened risk of bribery with all to audit tendering and rotation, which potentially conflicts with relevant personnel completing a formal training and compliance current requirements, therefore the Committee will monitor course, in line with the Groups procedures.
The Audit Committee evolving guidance from the regulatory bodies and will respond in reviews the compliance procedures relating to the Bribery Act at its the best interests of the Company.
April and December meetings, which incorporate risk assessments completed by each business unit and gifts and entertainment During the year, the Group engaged the services of Deloitte, disclosures made during the reporting period.
The Groups internal KPMG and Ernst and Young to undertake specific non-audit audit function reviews local compliance with the Bribery Act and assignments where the capability of these firms was considered to reports control improvements and recommendations to the Audit be most appropriate.
The Committee closely monitors fees paid to the auditors in Code of Conduct respect of non-audit services, which are analysed within note 8.
The Groups Code of Conduct contains policies and procedures In2013, fees for non-audit services totalled $1.0m and included covering how the Group conducts business and maintains its taxation services amounting to $0.8m and other services of $0.2m.
The Code of Conduct is Thescope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the available on the Groups website.
external auditor is monitored by, and, above certain thresholds, requires prior approval from the Committee to ensure that the Whistleblowing provision of such services does not impair their independence The Companys Senior Independent Director, John Hofmeister, is orobjectivity.
the primary point of contact for staff of the Group to raise, in confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, The Board received copies of all reports submitted to the financial or otherwise.
In addition, the Group has engaged the services of Safecall Limited, Internal Audit to provide an independent and confidential whistleblowing service The Audit Committee receives reports from the Internal Audit available to staff across all of Huntings operations.
department and reviews the internal audit process and effectiveness as part of the Groups internal control and risk All employees have been notified of these arrangements through assessment programme.
An annual programme of internal audit the corporate magazine, Group notice boards and the Groups assignments is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Internal Controls The Group has an established internal control environment, which was in operation throughout the year.
The Audit Committee monitors these arrangements on behalf of the Board, this review includes a report submitted three times a year on the principal risks John Nicholas facing the Group and the mitigating controls against those Chairman of the Audit Committee 6 March 2014 80 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts
