Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report UK Corporate Governance Code It is with great pleasure that I introduce to you our This report, which has been approved by the Board, reports on the Corporate Governance Report for 2013.
During the year the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Board implemented new procedures following publication the Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2012 of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and in 2012 and how the principles of the Code have been applied Guidance for Audit Committees.
Attention is now placed on a tendering process for the The Company was fully compliant with the Codes provisions appointment of the Groups external auditor.
The Board, on throughout the year, except with regard to the Codes request to recommendation of the Audit Committee, believes that a put the external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
tender process is not necessary at present due to the For the reasons stated in the Audit Committee Report on page 80, thoroughness and effectiveness of the audit completed in the Board believes appropriate measures are in place to ensure the audit undertaken by  LLP is effective and the year.
Commentary supporting this is provided in the remains independent.
Compliance with the revised principles relating to Directors The Board spent time during the year considering its plans remuneration is reported within the Remuneration Committee for management succession.
Stability within the senior Report on pages 54 to 77 and the activities of the Audit Committee managers and executive Director levels of the Group is of are reported on pages 78 to 80. primary concern to the Board, therefore management succession will be a regular agenda topic at future Board Board Composition and Committee Membership meetings.
This is to ensure the development of our key The Board of Directors currently comprises the non-executive personnel at all levels is achieved which is key to supporting Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and three the long-term viability of the Group.
independent non-executive Directors, including the Senior Independent Director.
The Directors, together with brief biographical details, are identified on pages 44 and 45.
Richard Hunting C. B. E. Chairman The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
This composition, with a separate Chairman and Chief Executive, ensures a balance of responsibilities and authorities.
All independent non-executive Directors are appointed to the Companys Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment include details of their duties and expected time commitments required.
Excluding the Chairman, 60% of the Board is currently comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
Mr Hunting, the Companys non-executive Chairman, is not regarded as independent, given his former executive position since joining the Company in 1989.
The Company has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts of interest whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest are reviewed, and appropriate authorisation sought, prior to the appointment of any new Director or if a new conflict arises with an existing Director.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, only non-conflicted Directors are involved in the authorisation process.
The Board is of the view that these procedures operated effectively throughout the year.
The Group operates a decentralised management structure to allow for rapid responses to business matters.
A framework of controls with discretionary limits and powers for local management is contained within a group manual.
50 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Appointment and Replacement of Directors The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the nonRules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director.
The in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors are appointed independent non-executive Directors evaluated the performance by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of of the individual executive Directors, with feedback being ordinary shareholders or by the Board on the recommendation of provided to the Chairman and then to the respective Directors.
The Company may also remove a performance of the non-executive Directors and that of the Director.
Additional details of the workings of the Nomination subcommittees of the Board was assessed by the executive Committee are set out on page 53.
Following the Codes guidance on the election of Directors, all As recommended by the Code, the Board appoint external members of the Board submit themselves for re-election at each facilitators every three years to complete a Board performance Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The next external evaluation will take place in 2015.
The non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year Board and Committee Meetings term with subsequent reappointment conditional upon an The Boards powers and authorities under which they act and as appraisal and review process.
Letters of appointment for each of detailed in the Companys Articles of Association are contained the independent non-executive Directors and non-executive within the Report of the Directors on pages 46 and 47.
Chairman are available from the Company upon request and their terms of appointment are summarised on page 66.
Details of the The Board normally holds six formal meetings each year.
Meeting executive Directors service contracts are set out on page 66. dates are set a year in advance.
Attendance by each of the Directors at Board or subcommittee meetings is detailed below.
Prior to the appointment of a non-executive Director, the Nomination Committee undertakes an evaluation of the Boards requirements to The duties and responsibilities of the Board and its subcommittees ensure the balance of skill and experience is maintained to fulfil the are formally agreed by the Board in writing.
In the case of a non-executive Director being reappointed, the Code recommends a particularly rigorous evaluation Matters specifically reserved for the Board include, but are not with particular consideration being given to the need to regularly limited to, the following: refresh the Board and to continued independence.
compliance with UK Company Law and the UKLAs Listing Rules: On appointment to the Board, each Director receives an review and assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk introduction to the Group tailored to their experience and needs management and internal control: including site visits.
All Directors have access to the Company approve all Stock Exchange announcements: Secretary and to independent professional advice, at the approve the full and half year financial statements, including the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
Directors declaration of dividends: are encouraged to maintain their skills and knowledge to best consider the Groups commercial strategy and approve the practice standards and, where appropriate, attend update training annual budget: and courses on relevant topics.
During the year, the Chairman held consider recommendations of the Board subcommittees including meetings with the non-executive Directors without the executive Board remuneration, appointments and their terms of reference.
Directors being present and also met each individual Director to discuss training and development requirements.
Board papers are always circulated in advance of meetings.
These include detailed financial reports on the Groups activities, reports The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for on each operating division, health and safety, risk management and keeping the Board informed of Corporate Governance investor relations reports.
In addition, the meetings held in March developments and maintaining corporate awareness of legislative and August focus on the full and half year results respectively and and regulatory changes.
The appointment and removal of the the meeting in December focuses on the budget for the following Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Annual Performance Evaluation During the year, the Board reviewed the major Stock Exchange During 2013, the Board completed an internal performance announcements issued by the Group, including the full and half year evaluation exercise, which comprised of a detailed questionnaire results, and concluded that the information presented was a fair, on its operation and practices and that of the subcommittees of the balanced and understandable assessment of the affairs of the Group.
The findings from the questionnaire were presented by the Chairman to the Board at its March 2014 meeting.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 51 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held in 2013 6 4 Nil 5 Number of meetings attended: Richard Hunting 6 Dennis Proctor 6 Peter Rose 6 John Hofmeister 6 4 5 John Nicholas 6 4 5 Andrew Szescila 6 4 5 Internal Control Strategic Planning and Budgeting strategic plans and annual The Board acknowledges its responsibility for monitoring the budgets containing comprehensive financial projections are Groups system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness formally presented to the Board for adoption and approval and and for compliance with the Turnbull guidance, now incorporated form the basis for monitoring performance.
Clearly defined into the Code.
The internal control system, which has been in procedures exist for capital expenditure proposals and place throughout 2013 and up to the date of approval of these authorisation.
accounts, is an ongoing evolutionary process designed to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to which the Group is Quality Assurance most of the business sectors within which the exposed.
These systems of internal control are designed to manage Group operates are highly regulated and subsidiaries are invariably rather than eliminate risks, therefore they only provide reasonable, required to be accredited, by the customer or an industry regulator, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss in to national or international quality organisations.
These the financial statements and of meeting internal control objectives.
organisations undertake regular audits and checks on subsidiary procedures and practices ensuring compliance with regulatory The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups requirements.
system of internal control for the period covered by these financial statements, the key features of which are as follows: During the year there were no material changes to the internal control procedures described above.
Management Structure within operational parameters set by the Board, management is delegated to the executive Directors.
Institutional Shareholders Subsidiaries operate within clearly defined policies and authorities The Company uses a number of processes for communicating with contained within a group manual under a decentralised shareholders, including stock exchange announcements, the management structure.
All senior management changes require the annual and half year reports and webcasts, interim management prior approval of the Chief Executive.
statements issued twice a year, and the Annual General Meeting to which all shareholders are invited.
In addition, the Chief Executive Reporting and Consolidation all subsidiaries submit detailed and Finance Director meet on a one-to-one basis with all principal financial information in accordance with a pre-set reporting shareholders at least twice a year, following the Groups half and timetable.
This includes weekly, bi-monthly and quarterly treasury full year results, or when requested to update them on Group reports, monthly management accounts, annual budgets and performance and strategy.
The Board is in turn briefed by the Chief two-year plans, together with half year and annual statutory Executive, when appropriate, on matters raised by shareholders.
The Groups consolidation process is maintained and updated with regular communication, including distribution of a During the year, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee group manual to all reporting units.
The Group monitors and met with key shareholders to discuss the implementation of the reviews new UK Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, new 2014 Hunting Performance Share Plan.
As part of this accounting standards, interpretations and amendments and engagement, the Directors Remuneration Policy was presented to legislation and other statutory requirements.
Subsidiary reporting key shareholders ahead of seeking approval at the Annual General entities are supported by instruction from Group and structured Meeting of the Group to be held in April 2014. training.
All data is subject to review and assessment by management through the monitoring of key performance ratios and The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also met with a comparison to targets and budgets.
The content and format of number of shareholders to discuss strategy, governance and other reporting is kept under review and periodically amended to ensure matters.
Their comments were passed on to the Board by the appropriate information is available.
The non-executive Directors are also available to meet shareholders.
52 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance The Companys major shareholders are listed, together with the Remuneration Committee information required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Remuneration Committee comprises solely the independent 7.2.
6, within the Report of the Directors on page 48. non-executive Directors of the Company and is chaired by Andrew Szescila.
Board Committees The Board has three main Committees to which it delegates The Committee convened five times during the year and has responsibility and authority: written terms of reference approved by the Board which are published on the Groups website.
During the year, the Committee Nomination Committee reviewed its effectiveness and the Chairman reported these Members of the Committee are Richard Hunting Committee findings to the Board.
Chairman, Dennis Proctor and the independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee has written terms of reference approved Details of the Committees activities are contained within its Report by the Board, which are published on the Groups website.
The Report follows the new disclosure role of the Committee includes leading the process for Board requirements published in 2013 and contains a Statement from the appointments and determining the terms of new appointments.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Directors The Committee also considers succession planning which takes Remuneration Policy and an Annual Report on Remuneration.
into account the experience, balance and skills required of Board Both the Policy and Annual Report will be tabled for a shareholder members.
The Committee did not formally convene in the year: vote at the Companys Annual General Meeting in April 2014. however, as noted above, the Board discussed management succession and diversity at its August meeting, where all key roles Audit Committee were debated.
The Audit Committee comprises exclusively of the independent non-executive Directors of the Company and is chaired by John The Board has considered the recommendations of the Davies Nicholas.
Details of the Audit Committees activities are contained Report Women on Boards and in 2012 issued its gender diversity within its report on pages 78 to 80. policy for Board appointments.
Given the current size and balance of experience of Huntings Board and the recent refreshing of the By Order of the Board Boards independent non-executive Directors it is unlikely that in the short term Hunting will be compliant with the recommendations of the Davies Report and its update in 2013.
However, in line with the Davies Reports recommendations, Richard Hunting, C. B. E. Huntings diversity policy commits the Group to: Chairman an embedded culture of equal opportunities for all employees, 6 March 2014 regardless of gender: require external recruitment consultants to submit their diversity policies to the Group prior to appointment: ensure that external consultants appointed by Hunting submit candidate shortlists comprising of an appropriate gender balance for consideration by the Nomination Committee: a target of at least one female Director of the Company when practicable: and a periodic review by the Nomination Committee of its progress in complying with the Davies Reports recommendations.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 53
