Audit committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2012 13.
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board and is established to monitor the integrity of financial information and to provide assurance to the Board that the Companys internal controls and risk management systems are appropriate and regularly reviewed.
The Committee continues to focus on ensuring that the Groups systems and controls are operating effectively and are evolving in line with the Groups growth.
A fuller insight into the role, activities and composition of the Audit Committee is provided below.
David Anderson Chairman of the Audit Committee 18 June 2013 Role of the audit committee The main duties of the audit committee include but are not limited to the following: monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function: review the Groups internal financial controls and risk management systems: make r ecommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditors regarding approval of their remuneration, terms of engagement, appointment, re-appointment or removal: review and monitor the external auditor independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor: to report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities: monitor the Gr oups whistleblowing procedures to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise confidential matters of possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
The full written terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be located on the Companys website www.
Committee composition The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors: David Anderson Chairman David Hurst-Brown Ian Pearson In accordance with Code provision C. 3.1 the Board should satisfy itself that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has considered this requirement and, taking into account the financial background of both the Chairman of the Committee, David Anderson and also the former Chairman, it is satisfied that this requirement has been met and that the Committee has sufficient experience to fulfil its obligations in an effective manner.
52 Activities during the year The Committee have conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems as part of the annual risk review.
In the financial year, the Committee fulfilled its duties under its terms of reference and discharged its responsibilities primarily by: reviewing the Groups draft half-yearly and full year results prior to Board approval: focussing specifically on the accounting associated with the acquisition of MIPS Technologies, Inc. : reviewing the draft Interim Management Statements during the year: assessing the external auditor independence and objectivity: r eviewing the external auditor plan for the audit of the Groups financial statements, which include key areas of scope of work, terms of engagement and fees: reviewing the Groups system to identify and manage risk: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal risks over financial reporting.
In addition under the Code the Committee is required to monitor and review the effectiveness of internal audit activities.
The Group does not have a separate internal audit function and the Committee reviewed whether this was still suitable in the financial year.
They concluded that the Group was still sufficiently small and that controls were suitably robust not to require a separate function and advised the Board of this.
As the Group continues to grow the Committee will continue to review the requirements for its own internal audit function.
During the year Ernst & Young performed a review of the Groups PAYE compliance.
No major compliance risks were identified, but a number of minor changes have been implemented to further strengthen the PAYE compliance environment.
External audit KPMG were appointed as auditors in 1996.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups relations with the external auditor.
During the year the Committee approved the terms of engagement and remuneration to be paid to the external auditor and agreed the scope and approach of the audit.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Committee considered the auditors overall work plan including the role of the senior statutory auditor and key audit staff and the overall extent of non-audit services.
In order to assess effectiveness the Committee reviewed the arrangements to maintain auditor independence and the auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan including the proposed resources to execute the plan were consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
The Committee has reviewed and is satisfied with the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.
The Group currently has a policy in place for the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
The policy highlights the importance of independence and objectivity and states that non-audit services can only be provided where these are guaranteed.
In the financial year the non-audit work carried out by KPMG was nominal and was solely the preparation of an accountants report to the government body.
In particular, to maintain the independence of the auditor, the Committee appointed other third-party accounting firms to conduct the due diligence and valuation work relating to the acquisition of MIPS Technologies, Inc.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG be proposed for re-appointment by shareholders as the Groups external auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the external auditor is working well and remains satisfied with their independence and effectiveness.
Significant issues that the committee considered in relation to the financial statements The Committee considered the key accounting judgements underlying the preparation of the financial statements focussing specifically on revenue recognition, the level of stock provision, the valuation of intangible assets and goodwill associated with the MIPS acquisition and the valuation and accounting treatment of investments.
These areas were discussed in detail with the auditors and the Committee was comfortable that an appropriate position had been taken.
