Nomination committee report Role of the nomination committee The main duties of the Committee include but are not limited to the following: leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board: considers succession planning at senior levels within the Group and ensures an appropriate balance of skills and experience: evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board: and considers diversity issues.
The full written terms of reference of the nomination committee can be located on the Companys website www.
Committee composition The Nomination Committee comprises four directors: Geoff Shingles Chairman Andrew Heath Gilles Delfassy David Anderson Activities during the year During the year 2012 the Committees particular area of focus was to slightly refresh the Board through the appointment of an additional non-executive director and also a new SID to replace Ian Pearson.
Ian still remains on the Board as a non-executive director.
The Committee were assisted in their search for a non-executive director by Russell Reynolds and the preferred candidate was one with a background in a leading technology Company with international business experience.
The Committee considered a wide variety of individuals before proposing the appointment of Andrew Heath.
In making the appointment the Committee evaluated the particular skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity, including gender that would benefit and balance the Board.
Also during the year, Andrew Heath replaced Ian Pearson as chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee excluding for this purpose David Anderson determined that David would be the most appropriate SID to take over from Ian Pearson and he did so during the financial year.
The Committee also reviewed a proposal for a Management and Leadership development programme for the executives and management, and considered it to be an essential tool to support the Groups strategy.
More detail is provided in the Corporate social responsibility report on page 57.
The Committee will continue throughout the year to assess the balance of the Board, succession planning and diversity issues.
Geoff Shingles Chairman of the Nomination Committee 18 June 2013 54
