Board composition The Board currently consists of eight members, the Chairman, the CEO, the CFO and five non-executive directors.
During the year Andrew Heath joined the Board as a non-executive director.
The Nomination Committee followed a rigorous procedure which evaluated the skills, experience and knowledge required of the new non-executive which led to the successful appointment of Andrew Heath.
The process is described in more detail in the Nomination Committee Report on page 54.
All directors will stand for re-election at the AGM on 20 September 2013.
Biographical details for each of the directors are set out on pages 38 to 39.
Role of the Chairman In accordance with the Code there is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and CEO which have been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The written roles are available to view on the Companys website.
Geoff Shingles has led the Board as Chairman since 1996.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
He sets the agenda for the Board and ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information giving sufficient time to review all agenda items thoroughly including strategic issues.
He promotes a culture of openness, debate and facilitates constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
In order for him to effectively discharge his duties he works closely with the Company Secretary.
The Chairmans other professional commitments listed on page 38 has not changed during the year and the Board are satisfied that they continue not to interfere with the performance of his duties for the Company.
Role of the Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive, Sir Hossein Yassaie, is the key driver for proposing, developing and implementing the Groups strategy and commercial targets as agreed by the Board.
He is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.
He carries out his duties in consultation with the Chairman, the Board and EMB which in turn are responsible for the commercial and operational activities of the Group.
He holds weekly meetings with the CFO and EMB to ensure the Group are actively managing the overall strategy of the business.
He is also responsible, with the EMB team, for implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
Role of the Senior-Independent Director SID The SID acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
He also makes himself available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
During the year no requests from shareholders were received.
The SID meets with the non-executive directors annually without the Chairman present to appraise his performance.
David Anderson took over this role from Ian Pearson during the financial year.
Role of the Company Secretary The Company Secretary under the direction of the Chairman ensures good flow of information within the Board and its Committees and to senior management.
He is also responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters and is on hand to offer advice and services should any director require it.
The Company Secretary attends all Board and certain Committee meetings.
The Board as a whole decides on the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
Role of a Non-Executive Director The non-executive directors have a wealth of experience, business knowledge and are appointed to constructively challenge senior management and provide input to meet agreed goals, objectives and to ensure the integrity of financial information.
The role is described in more detail within the FRCs Code.
During the year the Board considered the independence of each of the non-executive directors against the criteria specified in the Code and took particular care to assess the independence of both Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown.
Ian and David were appointed as nonexecutive directors of the Company in 1998 and 2000, respectively, and have therefore been connected with the Group for more than nine years.
The Board acknowledged that they do not meet the independence criteria specified by the Code but agreed that both directors continue to contribute significantly through their individual skills and considerable knowledge of both the Group and the industry.
The Board agrees that the remaining non-executives meet the independence criteria specified in the Code.
