48 IMI plc AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT of, firstly, the majority of the Merchandising business as originally Dear Shareholder envisaged and then latterly, a number of issues surrounding the accounting treatment for the eventual disposal of both the Main areas of activity in 2013 Merchandising and Beverage Dispense businesses.
Issues reviewed and discussed included treatment of these businesses The Audit Committee had four meetings in 2013 and some as discontinued operations and the associated tax implications major financial events to consider in 2013.
Significant accounting of the transaction.
issues arose from corporate activity including the divestment of the Beverage Dispense and Merchandising divisions and plans The Committee also discussed the valuation of the IMI Pension to return 620m to shareholders.
The accounting treatment Funds investment in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership: for these matters in the 2013 financial statements was fully the accounting treatment of exceptional items including considered with the financial accounting team and the external restructuring costs : the impairment testing of intangible assets, auditor and was agreed by the Committee.
for which no material impairment charge was taken in the year: the adoption of the revision to IAS19: Employee Benefits: the The Committee remit was extended in 2013 to require it timing of revenue recognition on some of the Groups larger to advise the Board in relation to the fair, balanced and contracts: the costing and valuation of inventory and the understandable requirements in respect of the Annual Report accounting treatments for the acquisitions made during the year.
Additional work undertaken in connection with this included a review of the new requirements and training for relevant staff, the submission of draft Annual Report content Members to the Committee in December 2013, followed by a final draft I chair the Audit Committee.
I am a qualified Chartered submission two weeks earlier than in previous years to allow Accountant and have significant recent and relevant financial more time for comments and improvements.
The language, experience including twelve years on the board of Centrica plc, layout and financial statements have all been made more the first seven as Finance Director, and seven years as chair accessible as a result of this work.
of the Audit Committee of Kingfisher plc.
Anita Frew and Bob Stack were members of the Audit Committee throughout the The Committee also reviewed the programme for improvement year.
Bob stepped down at the year end and Carl-Peter Forster of the capabilities of people in the finance function.
Finance roles joined the Committee on 1 January 2014 and Birgit Nrgaard around the Group were categorised and assessment centres joined on 1 March 2014.
Terry Gateley was a member and were used to help establish competencies and put in place Chairman of the Committee until 8 May 2013 at which time appropriate individual plans to meet development needs.
divisional finance leaders were brought into a number of key positions including the divisional finance roles in Severe Service The Committee generally asks the Chairman, the Chief and Indoor Climate.
Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Assurance Director to attend its meetings but Financial controls continued to be a key focus area for the holds at least part of several meetings each year alone with Committee and during the year management made significant the external auditor and Group Assurance Director.
The head progress in strengthening controls and addressing action points of Group Compliance attends meetings regularly and the raised by external and internal audit.
Committee has the powers to call on any employees to come before it.
As highlighted above, in relation to accounting issues for the 2013 full-year and half-year results, the Committee reviewed and discussed the accounting treatment for the proposed disposal Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Oversight of financial reporting Assurance work is primarily directed towards financial control audits but is broadening into other areas, including in 2013, The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the major business change project planning and implementation.
financial statements and reports that are prepared by executive management.
The Committee received reports from the external auditor who attended its meetings when Whistleblowing required to do so.
The Committees work included reviewing The Committee also reviews the operation of the Group the financial statements, accounting policies, significant whistleblowing policy and the independent hotline and the issues of judgement and, as described below under the most serious reports received and investigated.
section headed Internal Audit looking at the effectiveness The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of internal financial controls.
of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work.
The Committee approved the proposed external audit approach and its scope as well as the internal audit Yours faithfully programme.
The Committee takes a risk based approach to audit and other assurance activity.
Phil Bentley Chairman of the Audit Committee External audit independence and performance review 5 March 2014 The Committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In assessing auditor independence the Committee had regard to the Smith Guidance for Audit Committees and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the Committee and requires approval by the Chairman of the Committee for any non-audit engagement where fees exceed 150,000 and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as functioning in the role of management or auditing its own work.
Non-audit fees paid to the auditor were 0.2m 2012: 0.5m, which demonstrated the tight control which is maintained in this area.
The Committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efficiency of the external auditor and believes the performance has been satisfactory although some improvement actions were identified and addressed in the year.
A change in lead audit partner was agreed by the Committee and arrangements were put in place to ensure the new lead audit partner had been in place on the team through at least one full cycle before handover.
The Committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to re-appoint Ernst & Young as the external auditor at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Ernst & Young was first appointed as auditor in 2009 following a formal selection process after which it replaced the previous auditor.
The term of appointment is annual and there are no contractual restrictions on the Committees choice of auditor.
Internal Audit The Committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, and oversees the timely remediation of action areas resulting from the review visits that Group Assurance undertakes.
