50 IMI plc NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Diversity Dear Shareholder We continue to monitor our diversity metrics and to promote Main areas of activity in 2013 fairness and equal opportunities across our businesses.
Our policy is to recruit the very best people to execute our The Committee spent a substantial part of its time on executive strategic priorities and to reflect the diverse nature of the talent development and succession planning.
A confidential global footprint of our businesses, reflecting the location of global search process was commissioned by the Committee our customers and markets.
We are an equal opportunities to find a new Chief Executive.
Russell Reynolds were engaged employer so we do not discriminate on the grounds of race, to assist with this process.
Committee members excluding sex, disability or sexual orientation.
At Board level, there are six Martin Lamb interviewed a range of candidates and the nationalities, two of the non-executives are female and there is Committee made recommendations to the Board for the a broad mix of backgrounds and experience.
The Board remains appointment of Mark Selway as Chief Executive.
committed to increasing diversity by voluntary measures.
We will continue to review the composition of our management teams The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board and the Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and and its committees.
It recommended changes in executive responsibilities and the Executive Committee as well as changes experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution capabilities.
We will continue to seek a diverse pool of the to the membership of the Audit Committee and the Committee best quality candidates to draw from, both internally and when itself.
The Board approved these recommendations.
recruiting externally, to maximise the continuing effectiveness Non-executive director appointments are linked to the strategic of the Company.
At the same time, the Committee has agreed priorities of the Group and would generally involve external to measure progress on diversity metrics including gender and consultants.
No new non-executive directors were appointed nationality mix although specific targets have not been set at this in the year.
In 2013 the percentages of male and female employees across the Group were as follows: Members All Managers Senior Board Anita Frew, Bob Stack and Mark Selway and I are the current Employees Managers Directors members of the Nominations Committee.
In May 2013, Terry Female % 28% 23% 14% 20% Gateley ceased to be a member of the Committee when he retired from the Board and at the end of the year Martin Lamb, Male % 72% 77% 86% 80% Carl-Peter Forster, Phil Bentley and Birgit Nrgaard also stepped down as Committee members.
In line with our recruitment practices, the Group produces diverse shortlists for internal and external candidates and Review of time commitments and contributions requests this of external providers, with the aim of encouraging Appointments of non-executive directors are made on the basis and promoting diversity.
of a standard form letter of appointment.
Each non-executive The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of director and I, as Chairman were appointed on the basis of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work.
a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the Committee.
The Committee considers that the time given Yours faithfully by each non-executive was sufficient.
Anita Frew took the lead in reviewing the governance and other implications for IMI of my Roberto Quarta proposal to become Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc from Chairman of the Nominations Committee April 2014, which was then approved by the Board.
I have 5 March 2014 since stepped down from the board of Foster Wheeler AG.
