44 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report contd BOARD AUDIT NOMINATIONS REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Phil Bentley Roberto Quarta Bob Stack Mark Selway Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Membership: Membership: Membership: Membership: Anita Frew Anita Frew Anita Frew Douglas Hurt Finance Director Birgit Nrgaard Bob Stack Roberto Quarta Roy Twite Managing Director of Severe Service Carl-Peter Forster Mark Selway Birgit Nrgaard Brendan Colgan Managing Director Carl-Peter Forster of Fluid Power Peter Spencer Managing Director of Indoor Climate Paul Roberts Group Business Development Director Geoff Tranfield Group Human Resources Director John OShea Company Secretary and Head of Legal Four meetings Five meetings Four meetings Twelve meetings Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Operational management and Financial reporting Board and committee composition Define and recommend the remuneration policy for approval by implementation of plans and policies Oversight role in relation to financial Succession plans for Board set by the Board shareholders statements and senior management and corporate roles Determine the individual Monitoring and managing business Reviewing significant areas of remuneration packages for the most performance judgment and accounting policies Search for and recommendation of senior executives within the policy to candidates for appointment as nonDevelopment of strategy, plans and Advising the Board on whether the be put to shareholders for approval executive directors, Chief Executive budgets for review and approval by draft Annual Report is fair, balanced in 2014 and other executive director the Board and understandable positions Set annual and long-term incentive Monitoring and management of risk Monitoring announcements in metrics and awards and determine and internal controls Diversity policy and monitoring respect of financial performance the outcomes with support from the of progress Talent development and succession Audit Committee Financial controls and risk Review and recommendation of for senior roles Report on remuneration matters Monitoring the effectiveness of proposals for the assignment of Formulation of corporate policies and constructively engage with internal financial controls major executive responsibilities and compliance programmes shareholders and appointment and removal of Reviewing financial risk including Oversight and management of health divisional business leaders Assess risk in respect of fraud risk and safety, environmental matters, remuneration and incentive Oversight of internal audit legal affairs and compliance structures in particular Managing the external audit exercise, its objectivity and effectiveness Reviewing the system for confidential whistleblowing and the reports received Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 relations with shareholders and all resolutions proposed at Executive Committee the 2013 Annual General Meeting received strong support.
The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors, In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues the Divisional Managing Directors, and it is also attended preliminary results and interim results announcements, as by the Group Business Development Director, Paul Roberts, well as two interim management statements between results the Group Human Resources Director, Geoff Tranfield and announcements.
The IMI website includes recordings of the Company Secretary and Head of Legal, John OShea.
certain key presentations made by senior management, The secretary to the Committee is the Company Secretary recent Annual and Interim Reports, interim management and Head of Legal.
Senior executives and line managers from statements, other corporate announcements and links to around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings the websites of the Groups businesses.
The Company has of the Executive Committee.
It normally meets monthly and arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders more often as may be required and all members attended with Equiniti details are shown on page 156.
A sponsored all but one or two meetings during their tenure in the year.
Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme has been established for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary The Committee is the senior management body and as part details can be found on page 156. of its broad remit it will monitor and manage performance, review progress against strategic objectives, consider The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced business management issues and formulate budgets and understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for and to assist them in the stewardship of their investments.
Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors.
The Committee is also the risk Committee of the Board and The Chairman routinely meets with investors and the senior receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance and independent director is also available to shareholders.
The Chief legal and corporate affairs.
The annual risk review meeting was Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at attended by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and there board level for investor relations and report to the Board on were two further risk update meetings in the year with detailed shareholder issues at least quarterly.
They are supported by reports to the Board on all three occasions.
The Committee the Investor Relations Director, Will Shaw.
During 2013, IMI minutes are available to all members of the Board.
continued its programme of capital market day presentations, the materials for which are on the IMI website.
The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work.
Financial analysts notes are circulated to the directors and Changes to the Committee in 2014 include the involvement regular feedback reports for the Board from the Companys of all Divisional Managing Directors as members and brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys incorporating operational reviews into the meetings.
of major investors views, the most recent of which was in 2013.
The Chairman, senior independent director and other Investor relations non-executives meet with major shareholders upon request The Annual General Meeting is regarded by the Board as and several meetings of this type took place during the year.
an important opportunity to meet and communicate with There were also consultations with the larger shareholders and shareholders, particularly private investors.
The 2013 Annual institutional shareholder representative bodies in respect of General Meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended remuneration matters.
by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors.
The Chairman encouraged debate Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, and questions at the formal meeting and informally during voting and other rights of shareholders, directors refreshments afterwards.
appointments, removal and powers is set out in the Directors Report on pages 51 to 56.
Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2013 Annual General Meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the Directors Report for 2012.
A separate resolution for the approval of the Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting.
Notice of the 2013 Annual General Meeting was issued more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the IMI website.
The Board values its good 46 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report contd Through these processes significant risks are identified, Risk management processes assessed and ranked according to their probability and The Board has assigned specific responsibility to the Executive materiality and, following Executive Committee review, the Board Committee to act as the risk Committee of the Board.
considers what measures are appropriate in order to mitigate, This is a key feature of the remit of the Executive Committee, transfer or avoid such risks.
Risk appetite across the range which is part of the IMI Corporate Governance Framework.
of strategic objectives of the Group was also reviewed by the The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing Board.
The top ten risks identified by the Board at its annual risk and monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk review in December 2013 are described on pages 26 to 27. management systems in respect of which the Board has oversight.
The Executive Committee acts in its risk role in Financial reporting processes conjunction with the Audit Committee, which has primary responsibility for oversight of financial controls, the Nominations The use of the Group accounting manual and prescribed Committee, which has primary responsibility for succession reporting requirements by finance teams throughout the Group risk, and the Remuneration Committee, which has primary are important in ensuring that the Groups accounting policies responsibility for remuneration and incentive structure risk.
are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The The annual strategic risk review process is integrated into the use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group annual forecasting and business planning requirements of the ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that Group.
Risk monitoring and updates are carried out between facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
Each operating unit and corporate function is therefore required to undertake a regular process of business risk Internal control assessment and reporting.
Each individual Divisional Managing The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Groups system Director has appointed a risk champion with responsibility for of internal control and confirms that the system of internal embedding the Group risk assessment process in their business.
control takes into account the Code and relevant guidance The businesses risk reports, including mitigation action plans for as updated in 2005 by the Financial Reporting Council the significant risks, are reviewed by the most senior executive within Turnbull Guidance.
These are then considered by the Group Assurance Director, Paul Roughsedge, who compiles regular In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has reports for the Executive Committee, which in turn submits a clearly defined in writing those matters which are reserved full annual risk review and at least two updates each year to to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees the Board.
The other corporate functions go through a similar and it has also set written limits of authority for the Chief process and their input is reflected in these reports.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, attended the Executive well-established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers Committees annual risk review meeting.
The Divisional Managing of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high Directors present their strategic risks to the Board as part of the degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
annual business plan session and the Board explicitly considers They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies and the risks associated with the Groups strategic objectives.
The delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval Executive Committee also reports to the Board on major business of proposals for investment and material changes in operations and other risks involved in specific investment decisions including and are subject to regular senior management reviews acquisitions and divestments.
During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of which are reviewed in detail by the Executive Committee and the Groups system of internal control in relation to financial, consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against operational and compliance controls and risk management.
forecast is continuously monitored at monthly meetings of the In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to Executive Committee and, on a quarterly basis, by the Board.
the Board on the financial aspects of internal control and Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which monitored progress in addressing financial control issues and are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout implementing remediation plans where necessary.
Certified bi-annual reports are required from senior were considered as part of this review of the control environment.
executives of operating units, confirming compliance with The Audit Committee reviewed the nature and scope of both the Group financial reporting requirements.
The internal audit external audit and the internal audit work carried out by Group function, Group Assurance, operates a rolling programme of Assurance.
The Remuneration Committee conducted a risk internal assurance on site reviews at selected operating units.
review of incentive arrangements with particular reference to their Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group alignment with strategic objectives and appropriate risk-taking.
These internal assurance processes are co-ordinated with the activity of the Companys external auditor.
Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their materiality, to the Board.
In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls including those relating to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions.
Compliance and internal Audit Reports are made to the Board, the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored.
Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal control system.
In the year we made significant improvements in our control environment in the Severe Service and Indoor Climate businesses in Europe and we are committed to further strengthen the key financial control processes.
More information in relation to risk is given on page 46 under the heading Risk management processes.
Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered the effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2013 and up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Responsible business A major ethics and compliance programme, known as The IMI Way, has been in place across the Group since 2009.
Reports on compliance and The IMI Way programme are considered at regular meetings of the Board and the Executive Committee.
The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and has established a series of corporate policies and standards for responsible business across the Group.
At a Group level, responsible business activity is co-ordinated through a steering group and key issues of corporate responsibility are identified, monitored and addressed through the Groups general business processes and risk management framework.
More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 14 to 17 and on the Companys website.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 5 March 2014
