Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 THE BOARDS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Set out below is the Boards formal report on Corporate Governance and separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Compliance statement Dates of appointment The Board is committed to high standards of corporate Name Date of Date of current Anticipated expiry governance and confirms that throughout the year ending appointment letters of current term 31 December 2013 the Company has applied the principles Phil Bentley 1 October 2012 1 October 2013 30 September 2015 of good governance contained in the UK Corporate Carl-Peter Forster 1 October 2012 1 October 2013 30 September 2015 Governance Code the Code and complied with its best Anita Frew 2 March 2006 27 January 2014 11 March 2015 practice provisions as set out below.
The Board is able to Birgit Nrgaard 6 November 2012 1 February 2013 5 November 2015 report compliance with the Code throughout 2013, save Roberto Quarta 1 June 2011 1 September 2011 1 November 2014 that it was decided during the year to postpone until 2014 Bob Stack 13 June 2008 1 February 2013 13 June 2014 the externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise due to have been held in 2013.
The decision was made due to the Chief Executive transition during the year and the wish to optimise Role of the Board the value of the externally facilitated exercise.
Promote the success of the Company Guardian of stakeholders interests Set monitor leadership behaviour and culture THE BOARD Selection and appointment of the executive Composition management team At the end of the year the Board comprised ten directors: Supportive challenge of the executive management team the Chairman: the Chief Executive and a Chief Executive Approval of business plans and strategy designate: five independent non-executive directors: the Oversee governance, risk and the control environment Finance Director and one operational executive director.
Sean Toomes ceased to be an executive director with effect Performance monitoring and oversight of the businesses from 6 March 2013.
Terry Gateley retired as a non-executive and management director on 9 May 2013.
The Board provides leadership, direction and governance In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit for the Company and oversees business and management themselves for re-election at Annual General Meetings.
The Board has adopted a Corporate Martin Lamb is not continuing in office after the Annual Governance Framework which defines Board roles and General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2014. includes the list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and the executive Independence of non-executive directors management.
Board reserved matters include strategy and key The five non-executive directors are all free from any business areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant or other relationship which could materially interfere with the investment decisions and material changes in the organisation exercise of their independent judgement.
All non-executive of the Group.
The Board reviews budgets, forecasts and directors meet the criteria for independence under the Code plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis.
and are regarded by the Board as independent of executive Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management.
The Chairman, Roberto Quarta, was also management reports on the operational and strategic progress regarded as independent at the date of his appointment of the Group, as well as tracking changes in risk assessment to the Board.
The non-executive directors are from varied and controls.
Senior executives from across the Group are backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and regularly invited by the Board to attend meetings to make experience of senior management in commerce and industry.
presentations and participate in discussions.
Biographical details of the continuing directors, including the experience they bring to the Board, are shown on pages 38 and 39.
42 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report contd Division of responsibilities Meetings The Board met on ten occasions during the year including four Chairman: quarterly reviews, strategy discussions and meetings convened Building a well-balanced Board for special purposes as the need arose.
Chairing meetings, setting the agenda and ensuring the best use of time Board and Committee attendance Ensuring effectiveness of the Board including the quality of debate and decisions Director Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Promoting the right environment and relations for effective 10 meetings 4 meetings 5 meetings 4 meetings engagement and challenge around the boardroom table Roberto Quarta 10 - 5 4 Setting the tone and high standards of governance practice Phil Bentley 9 4 5 - Getting the right executive leadership and succession plans Carl-Peter Forster 9 - 4 4 in place Anita Frew 9 3 4 3 There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman Terry Gateley i 4 1 2 1 and Chief Executive, which is reflected in the written Corporate Birgit Nrgaard 10 - 5 4 Governance Framework approved by the Board and available Bob Stack 10 4 5 4 on the Companys website.
In summary, the Chairman is Martin Lamb 10 - 3 - responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board Mark Selway ii 2 - - - but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities.
Douglas Hurt 10 - - - The Chief Executive leads the executive management team Sean Toomes iii 1 - - - in running the businesses and implementing operational and Roy Twite 10 - - - strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board.
i Retired from the Board in May 2013 The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings ii Joined the Board in October 2013 operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information iii Left the Board in March 2013 is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the Company Secretary, who Induction and continuing development programme also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant A formal induction process for new directors has been wellregulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary established for several years and is the responsibility of the to all of the standing committees of the Board.
The Board has Chairman with support from the Chief Executive and Company a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent Secretary.
The induction programme for new directors was professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors refreshed by the Chairman following his own experience of have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
joining the Board and is periodically revised to reflect changes in Group businesses and management structure.
During and Chief Executive: after induction directors are expected to visit business units Leadership of the executive management team around the Group and, most critically, to meet with senior Formulating strategy, business plans and budgets operating management and key corporate staff.
Non-executive Delivering the business plans and performance objectives directors are supported in becoming familiar with the businesses during and after induction and there is regular contact between Ensuring the highest compliance and internal control management and non-executive directors during site visits, standards are maintained formal meetings and events.
Appropriate coaching and access Developing organisation structure to training and other continuing professional development is Resourcing, talent development and succession plans available to all directors and all directors participated in some The three executive directors are: the Chief Executive, Mark appropriate updates during the year at Board and committee Selway: Finance Director, Douglas Hurt: and Roy Twite, an meetings.
There is also a committee induction process designed Operational Executive Director.
Mark Selway leads the executive to brief new committee members on the relevant committees team and has direct responsibility for corporate development activity and the issues facing it.
Each of the three divisions is led by a Managing Three new non-executive directors joined the Board in the latter Director who reports to Mark: Roy Twite is responsible for part of 2012 and went through the stages of induction during Severe Service, Brendan Colgan is responsible for Fluid that year and through 2013. Business familiarisation is at the Power and Peter Spencer for Indoor Climate.
Martin Lamb, core of induction and continuing development for non-executive the former Chief Executive, will be a director until the Annual directors at IMI is based around gaining an understanding of General Meeting on 8 May 2014 and, whilst he does not retain the business and getting to know the wider management team.
executive responsibilities, he continues to be available to provide transitional support to the Company.
Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board evaluation Key Board activities in 2013 In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman Following the sale of the Beverage Dispense and should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process at Merchandising divisions IMI became a business focused on least once every three years.
As highlighted above, the 2013 specialist flow control industrial markets.
At the same time, process was postponed due to the Chief Executive transition.
the transition to a new Chief Executive has been completed A full externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise is planned and a Board process for mapping out the next stage of the to be conducted in 2014.
Groups development has been established.
An internal evaluation of the Board and its committees was Business performance and risk are regularly reviewed during carried out between November 2013 and January 2014. the year and the annual business planning and strategic risk This augmented the Board effectiveness improvements review meetings of the Board took place in December.
The identified in workshops facilitated by an external consultant approach to the Groups risk management process and the in 2012.
The internal evaluation process involved face-to-face Boards review of strategic risks were further strengthened discussions including individual meetings between the with particular emphasis on more detailed mitigation action Chairman and the other directors.
The principal actions arising plans including robust business continuity plans and a are increasing the visibility of the wider management team and reduction in exposure to supply chain dependencies.
bringing more subject specialist presentations to the Board in areas relevant to long-term strategy.
The Board received 2014 Board objectives the findings of the evaluation in March 2014 and the directors As explained in the Chairmans governance letter, the Board confirmed that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities has three specific objectives for 2014, which are as follows: appropriately.
The evaluation also concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and that each continuing embedding the new executive leadership and establishing director demonstrated a valuable contribution.
The contribution strong links between them and the Board, investors and and performance of the directors standing for election or other key stakeholders: re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, is further supporting the new executive leadership in formulating clear commented on in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
strategic objectives and plans for the next phase of IMIs In addition, the senior independent director, Anita Frew, met development: and with the other non-executive directors and consulted the further strengthening management talent and creating executive directors regarding the performance of the Chairman the organisational structure required to drive sustainable and provided appropriate feedback to him.
Management of conflicts of interest Standing committees of the Board The Companys articles of association include certain The standing committees of the Board are shown overleaf and provisions relevant to the activity of the Board and its include the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, the committees and can be viewed on the IMI website.
Remuneration Committee and the Executive Committee.
Each These provisions include requirements for disclosure and of these committees operates under written terms of reference approval by the Board of potential conflicts of interest.
These which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities procedures apply, inter alia, to external directorships and it is and authorities.
The full terms of reference of these committees the Boards view that they operated effectively during 2013. were updated in the year and are part of the Corporate Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 Governance Framework which appears on the IMI website.
to avoid a situation in which they have or may have a direct The committees report to the Board on their work, normally or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict through their respective chairman, quarterly or more frequently with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition as appropriate.
to the duty that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Separate reports from the following committees appear as Board the nature and extent of any interest in any transaction follows: Audit Committee on pages 48 and 49: Nominations or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
Committee on page 50: and Remuneration Committee on If any director becomes aware of any situation which may pages 55 and 56. potentially give rise to a conflict of interest, that director informs the rest of the Board and the Board is then permitted under the articles of association to decide to authorise such conflict.
The information is recorded in the Companys register of conflicts and a conflicts authorisation letter is issued to the relevant director.
