CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board has defined a set of responsibilities and accountabilities that underpin a high quality decision making process KEN HANNA, DEAR SHAREHOLDER CHAIRMAN This Corporate Governance Report the Report is intended to give shareholders an understanding of the Groups governance procedures.
The Report sets out how the Company complied with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, and how this has supported the Boards decision making process during the year.
The disclosures made in the Report mirror the Code and further statutory disclosures are included at the end of the Report.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY Will Samuel retired in May 2013 after completing nine years service as a member of the Board.
Will was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2004 and became Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director in 2006.
The Board and I would like to thank Will for his valued advice and assistance over the last nine years.
As Chairman, it is my responsibility to ensure that members of the Board have the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience and after reviewing the composition of the Board following Wills departure, I am pleased to report that John Langston was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in August 2013 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee in September 2013.
John brings a wealth of financial and operational experience to the Board and his full biography can be found on page 45.
Simon Borrows was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in May 2013 and stepped down from the role of Audit Committee Chairman in September 2013.
He remains a member of the Audit Committee.
Further details can be found in the Nominations Committee Report on page 57.
During our search for a new Non-Executive Director we gave due consideration to diversity and the recommendations in IN THIS SECTION the Davies Report.
We consider diversity to include ethnicity, 55 Audit Committee Report experience and geographical location as well as gender.
57 Nominations Committee Report Our Board currently has 11% female representation.
58 Directors Report on Remuneration 74 Directors Report We intend to recruit a further Non-Executive Director in 2014 and will consider all aspects of diversity including, but not limited to, gender in the recruitment process.
com annualreport STATEMENT OF CODE COMPLIANCE The Board has complied with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code during 2013 apart from the requirement under provision D. 2.1.
Further information can be found of page 65 of the Directors Report on Remuneration.
The information required under DTR7 is given on pages 48 to 57 and forms part of the Report.
KEN HANNA, CHAIRMAN 48 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The full Matters Reserved for the Board can be found on the THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The role of the Board is to have responsibility for generating website www.
com about us governance shareholder value over the long term by setting the Groups BOARD MEETINGS strategy, ensuring that appropriate resources are available to The Board meetings are structured to allow the Board sufficient enable the Company to meet its objectives and to monitor the time to discuss and review financial performance, achievement delivery of those objectives within an effective framework of of objectives, development of the Groups strategy, operational internal controls.
The Board has a defined set of responsibilities performance and risk and internal controls.
Standing agenda and accountabilities which are set out in the Matters Reserved items are discussed at each Board meeting, which include: for the Board and include: Chief Executives Report this report gives an update on Strategy and management responsibility for long term performance across the Group success of the Company, approval of objectives and commercial strategy, approval of the extension of Groups Finance Directors Report includes the latest financial activities into new business or geographic areas information for the Group Financial reporting and controls review and approval of Investor Relations Report provides an update on macro the Annual Operating Plan, major capital projects and trends by key geographies, share register movements and any changes to them summary of IR activity Internal Controls reviewing effectiveness of internal controls processes to support strategy Risk approval of the Groups risk appetite, determining the nature and extent of significant risks the Group is willing to take to achieve its objectives KEY AREAS OF BOARD FOCUS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY BUSINESS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER RISK PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE ENGAGEMENT Trivett Updates from Approval of the Re-appointment Annual General Annual review acquisition six key markets 2012 full year of auditors Meeting of Group risk results and 2013 processes and Two day Group Global systems Board Share buy back interim results mitigation plans strategy review update evaluation programme Long range Talent & People Pensions update Update on forecasts shareholder Business Marketing performance and market Development update against plan perception Annual Monthly of the Group Operating Plan management accounts Reviewing M&A opportunities Final and interim dividend www.
com 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED COMMITTEES RESPONSIBILITIES The table below shows the key Committees and their responsibilities.
The Audit Committee Report can be found on page 55.
The Nominations Committee Report can be found on page 57, the Remuneration Committee Report can be found on page 65 and the CR Committee Report can be found on page 40.
INCHCAPE PLC BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS CORPORATE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Delegated Financial reporting Remuneration policy Group Strategy Balance of the Board Oversight of the Group authorities CR Programme Financial risk Incentive plans Operational Leadership of management Management the Group Performance targets Internal Control Reviews Full year and Achievement of Quarterly performance Composition of Board Group CR Policy half year results performance targets against strategic goals Skills, knowledge for short and long term Accounting policies Quarterly performance & experience on incentives against AOP the Board Terms of engagement Pay across the Group of auditors Diversity Recommends Re-appointment Level and structure Development Appointments to Group CR strategy of auditors of remuneration for opportunities the Board Executive Directors and for key talent Audit tender Election re-election Executive Committee Programmes to further of Directors at Annual Auditors remuneration Remuneration Policy strategic agenda General Meeting Monitors Integrity of financial Appropriateness of Employee engagement Independence of Groups CR risk exposure statements Remuneration Policy levels across the Group Non-Executive Directors Legal & regulatory Effectiveness of Legal and regulatory Inchcape Advantage Succession planning requirements internal controls and requirements st Customer 1 strategy risk management Internal Audit function Legal and regulatory requirements Approves Statements in Annual Remuneration Policy Group wide strategic Nominations Annual CR Report Report concerning programmes Committee Report Remuneration internal controls and packages for Executive External appointments risk management Directors and Executive for Executive Directors Policy on non-audit Committee members Skills profile for services Design of long term Non-Executive Directors Whistleblowing incentive plans procedures Performance targets for long term incentive schemes 50 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LEADERSHIP The Board met five times during 2013.
Attendance is shown in the table below.
Board Audit Committee Nominations Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Name of Director Scheduled Attended Scheduled Attended Scheduled Attended Scheduled Attended Scheduled Attended Chairman Ken Hanna 5 5 2 2 2 2 3 3 Group Chief Executive Andr Lacroix 5 5 2 2 3 3 Group Finance Director John McConnell 5 5 Non-Executive Directors Vicky Bindra 5 5 3 3 Simon Borrows Senior Independent Director 5 5 4 4 2 2 Alison Cooper 5 5 4 4 John Langston 2 2 1 1 Nigel Northridge 5 5 2 2 Will Samuel 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Till Vestring 5 5 1 1 2 2 John Langston was appointed on 1 August 2013.
Will Samuel resigned on 16 May 2013.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
A summary of their responsibilities is set out below.
CHAIRMAN GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR To lead an effective Board by To develop the Groups strategy To act as a sounding board providing direction and focus and business plans for approval for the Chairman and promoting open and by the Board To serve as an intermediary constructive debate Report to the Board on performance, to other Directors Ensuring that members receive the implementation of strategy and To be available to shareholders information that is accurate, significant developments should they have concerns relevant and timely To lead the Executive Committee, which have not been resolved Responsibility for composition develop and implement the Groups through the normal channels of the Board to ensure that the strategy, manage risk and the To hold an annual meeting of members have the right mix of internal control framework Non-Executive Directors to evaluate skills, knowledge and experience Responsibility for the day to day the performance of the Chairman Chair the Nominations operations of the Group, providing Committee and membership information to the Board to aid the of the CR Committee decision making process To regularly engage with shareholders on the Groups activities and progress against objectives NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and experience to the Board.
They are responsible for using their independent judgement in decisions regarding the development and implementation of the Groups strategy, monitoring and reporting of performance and the integrity of internal controls and risk management.
The biographies of the Board can be found on pages 44 to 45.
The Non-Executive Directors held meetings in May and November without the presence of the Executive Directors.
com 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Group Finance Director financial review, current KPIs EFFECTIVENESS COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD Group Financial Controller operational financial review, The Board consists of the Chairman, two Executive Directors and reporting systems and processes six Non-Executive Directors.
Will Samuel, who had served on the Group Audit Director risk management, assurance Board for nine years, resigned in May 2013.
John Langston was processes and internal controls appointed to the Board in August 2013 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee in September 2013.
Group Chief Information Officer overview of the Groups IS strategy and structure All Non-Executive Directors were considered independent during 2013, in accordance with the Code.
Director of Taxation overview of the Groups tax structure Group Communications Director brand, marketing, internal LENGTH OF SERVICE OF THE GEOGRAPHIC MAKE-UP and external communications and Inchcape Advantage NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BOARD External auditor external audit function The Board is kept up to date throughout the year with key information which includes: Regional updates from Executive Committee members and other senior managers: Operational updates from departmental heads including, tax, IT and internal audit: 1 year 1 Asia 22% 1 4 years 6 UK 78% Monthly financial updates: and 4 years 2 An annual overseas visit and UK dealership visits which allow APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD the Non-Executive Directors to informally meet the Groups The Nominations Committee has responsibility for evaluating the employees to gain a deeper understanding of the business composition of the Board and nominating suitable candidates The Company Secretary is available to offer advice and services to the Board to fill any vacancies.
Details of the activities of the in relation to the business of the Board should they require it.
Nominations Committee can be found on page 57.
The Company recognises that its Board members may be invited EVALUATION In 2013, the Senior Independent Director facilitated an to become Directors of other companies and that this additional experience is likely to benefit the deliberations of the Board.
Details internal review which consisted of one-to-one interviews and a questionnaire which covered: of other directorships held are given in their biographies on pages 44 to 45.
The Executive Directors are generally permitted to take strategy one non-executive position as long as it does not lead to conflicts Board knowledge, effectiveness and contribution of interest or undue time commitment.
succession COMMITMENT risk management The members of the Board are expected to allow sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively.
The minimum number the Nominations, Audit, Remuneration and CR Committees of days required by the Non-Executive Directors is set out in the Board administration letter of appointment.
The questionnaire was designed to encourage an open DEVELOPMENT AND INFORMATION AND SUPPORT exchange of views on how the Board operates.
New Directors receive a tailored induction programme designed The evaluation concluded that there is widespread agreement to give them a comprehensive understanding of the strategy, and support for Board structure and processes.
Also, as a result operations and values of the Group.
John Langston joined the of the evaluation, there will be a continued focus on Board Board in 2013 and received a formal induction.
Over two days, composition and succession planning of the Board and senior he met with the following key members of the Group to gain management during 2014. an understanding of their roles and the Companys operations: The Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman present to Chairman the Board, its Committees, history of the Group, consider his performance.
The Non-Executive Directors expressed vision and values no concerns over the Chairmans leadership of the Board.
Group Chief Executive strategy, overview of operational businesses, analyst and investor engagement RE-ELECTION In accordance with the Code, all Directors stand for election Group Company Secretary directors duties and regulatory or re-election at the Annual General Meeting the AGM.
rules, governance and Board administration At the 2013 AGM, shareholders re-appointed all the Directors.
Group HR and Business Development Director key management, succession planning, remuneration policy, business development strategy 52 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS THE BOARD Responsibility for identifying significant risks, determining the Groups risk appetite and oversight of the principal risks to the Groups strategic objectives AUDIT COMMITTEE Delegated responsibility from the Board for risk management, Internal Controls, compliance and whistleblowing INTERNAL AUDIT Responsibility for reviewing financial and operational controls, monitoring risk capture and mitigating actions, reporting to the Audit Committee GROUP iPOM COMMITTEE Key day to day risk oversight is managed through the Group iPOM Committee which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
Its remit ensures that: focus is on key risks and actions to mitigate identified risks: compliance programmes exceed external benchmarks: appropriate defences are in place to mitigate risks: whistleblowing policy is managed to reduce risk of fraud MARKET iPOM COMMITTEES Sub-committees of the Executive Committee in each market report into the Group iPOM Committee to ensure that risk management oversight remains at the highest level in each market.
Meetings are co-ordinated to ensure that appropriate reviews are performed in line with the Group iPOM Committee, Audit Committee and Board meetings ENABLERS FUNCTIONAL ASSURANCE PROVIDERS CORPORATE ASSURANCE Functional teams are a key source of risk management effort Lead continuous improvement in our risk management practices ACCOUNTABILITY Audit and management regularly assess the effectiveness FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING of internal controls over financial reporting as well as the The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced preparation of financial statements based on the framework and understandable assessment of the Groups position and contained in the Turnbull Guidance.
There have been no prospects.
A statement of the Directors responsibility for reporting significant changes and the Board has concluded that the the financial statements, the going concern statement and the Groups internal system of controls over financial reporting statement by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report, was effective during the year.
as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable is set out The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and on page 74.
The statement by the auditors about their reporting is advised of key risks including environmental, social and responsibilities is given on page 141. governance risks facing the Group on a rolling 12 month The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining basis, with a formal review of the most significant risks annually or more frequently if required.
Risks are categorised as systematic adequate internal controls over regular financial reporting for the Group, including the consolidation process.
There is a risks defined as known risks which are largely unchanging or which apply Group wide and are managed through standard comprehensive system of internal controls in place, including the Annual Operating Plan AOP, which is reviewed and policies and procedures, and dynamic risks forward looking risks which can be specific to a market, region or function, which approved by the Board.
Monthly actual results are reviewed by management against the AOP and, where appropriate, change in nature constantly and which are therefore managed through bespoke mitigation or response plans.
revised forecasts are presented to the Board.
All data to be consolidated in the Groups financial statements is reviewed Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM is the Group wide programme thoroughly by management to ensure that it complies with developed to drive risk management and engage risk aware relevant accounting policies and that financial reporting gives behaviours across the Group.
The Group uses iPOM to define a true and fair reflection of the financial position of the Group.
and emphasise the right way to do business.
The central principle of iPOM is to ensure that risk management is recognised RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS as something within every employees scope of responsibility.
The Internal Controls over the financial reporting framework are iPOM framework encourages and enables employees to make designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the decisions which balance performance with conformance, reliability of financial reporting as well as the preparation of ensuring that the Group does business in the right way and the financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
com 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED protects its reputation and the value it creates.
The Groups Presentations were held for analysts for the Groups annual and principal risks can be found on pages 36 to 37. half yearly results.
Recorded conference calls are also held for analysts on the release of Interim Management Statements.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS These presentations and calls are published on the Companys The Board has delegated responsibility for risk management website so that both private and institutional investors or potential and internal controls to the Audit Committee.
Details of the investors have access to the information.
Committees activities during the year can be found on The Board is provided with regular updates on the views raised pages 55 to 56. by the Companys investors.
During the year, the Board received a presentation from external advisors on shareholder and market REMUNERATION perception of the Group and its strategy.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for developing the Companys remuneration policy and monitoring its ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM implementation.
Details of the Committees activities along The AGM gives all shareholders an opportunity to meet the with the Remuneration Report can be found on pages 58 to 73.
Board and ask any questions they have regarding the Group.
The Board encourages participation of private shareholders at RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the AGM, however, the Board understands that it is not always The Board understands that effective communication is essential possible for shareholders to attend.
For this reason, a prepaid to enable shareholders to gain a clear understanding of the reply form is sent to shareholders to enable them to give their Groups strategy, business model and remuneration policy.
views should they be unable to attend the AGM in person.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance The Company complies with the Code as it relates to voting, Director and Head of Investor Relations hold regular meetings the proposal of separate resolutions on each substantially with institutional investors throughout the year through a separate issue and the attendance of Committee Chairmen comprehensive investor relations programme.
Details of the voting on resolutions at the AGM are includes site visits, roadshows and conferences.
During the made available on the Companys website.
year approximately 260 institutions met with management The Group is committed to reducing its impact on the environment to discuss the Group and its objectives.
and encourages shareholders to receive communications As part of the 2014 programme, institutional investors will be electronically to reduce paper usage.
able to attend an investor day during which the Executive Shareholders can also register for news alerts via email.
Please visit Committee will give presentations covering the Groups the website www.
com investors for more information.
unique global operations, the focus on delivering operational excellence and the confidence in delivering sustainable growth.
It is important for investors to receive communications in the form most appropriate to their needs and they can change the way Shareholders are also kept informed of Company performance they receive shareholder communications at any time.
These are made available to the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
INVESTOR RELATIONS CALENDAR Auto Conference Dec Jan Hong Kong Investor Day Auto Conference Nov Feb Annual Results Roadshow Audiocast & presentation Roadshow Broker & Retail Conferences Oct Mar Interim Management Statement THROUGHOUT THE YEAR 1:1 MEETINGS AND Audiocast Roadshow INCHCAPE ADVANTAGE SITE VISITS HELD Sep Apr Interim Management Retail Conference Statement Roadshow Audiocast Retail Conference Aug May Interim Results Annual General Meeting Audiocast & Presentation Jul Jun Roadshow Retail Conferences 54 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR During the year the Committee focused on the following matters: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Review of the interim and year end financial statements for the Group Review of the consistency and appropriateness of the accounting policies Review of the methods used to account for significant transactions, completeness of disclosures and material JOHN LANGSTON, areas in which significant judgements had been applied CHAIRMAN Review of the effectiveness of internal controls, risk assessment process, the assurance process and changes to significant risks AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS 2013 Approval of the Internal Audit Plan and review of its effectiveness The Audit Committee is comprised of three independent Non-Executive Directors, John Langston, Alison Cooper Review of the accounting controls and IT control environment and Simon Borrows.
John was appointed as Chairman on for new systems 1 September 2013 and is a qualified chartered accountant.
Approval of the terms of engagement, strategy, scope He is considered to have recent and relevant experience in and effectiveness of the external auditors accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Review whistleblowing arrangements and procedures The Committee held four meetings during 2013 and in place during the year attendance is shown in the table on page 51. Review tax and litigation updates Only members of the Committee are required to attend Committee meetings however, other individuals such as SIGNIFICANT ISSUES the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance As part of the reporting and review process, the Committee has Director, Group Audit Director and external auditors discussed the significant issues considered in relation to the are able to attend by invitation.
financial statements and how those issues were addressed.
During the year the Committee considered the following key risks, KEY RESPONSIBILITIES accounting issues and judgements: The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit Significant issue Action taken Committee which are set out in its terms of reference.
Impairment Management prepared a detailed impairment These are reviewed on an annual basis and are available of goodwill review paper on the goodwill in the Group.
The on the Companys website www.
com about us Committee challenged the methodology, governance.
The key responsibilities are as follows: assumptions and sensitivity analysis used by management.
The Committee also considered Monitor the integrity of the financial statements and formal the independent review by the external auditors.
announcements The Committee concluded that the goodwill Review and recommend to the Board for approval the carrying amounts shown in note 11 on page 112 annual and half yearly reports of the financial statements were appropriate and Review Group accounting policies it approved the disclosures.
Review significant financial reporting issues IT controls The Group is committed to maintaining a Group framework wide internal controls framework to ensure that Review the financial and operational risks, policies appropriate controls are designed across key and risk management business processes to reduce financial reporting Monitor the effectiveness of internal controls and risks.
Regular updates were given to the Committee risk management on the progress of our global systems roll out.
Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal The Committee, having challenged the plans, audit function progress and risk management of the project concluded that it was satisfied with the Monitor the effectiveness and independence of the appropriateness of the controls currently in external auditors operation across the Group.
Approval of the policy on non-audit services Going Management prepared a detailed paper on Concern going concern using the strategic plan forecasts Review representation letter requested by external auditors that had been approved by the Board including Recommend the re-appointment of the external auditors the committed and uncommitted facilities Recommend, for approval, the remuneration of external auditors available, and then conducted sensitivity analysis.
The Committee challenged the assumptions used Whistleblowing and also considered the review conducted by the external auditors.
The Committee concluded that the Board is able to make the Going Concern statement on page 74 of the Directors Report.
com 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee keeps under review the ongoing legislative FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING The Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the proposals on audit tendering and rotation from the EU and the Competition Commission, and will implement them when they financial statements including the Groups annual and half yearly become final.
These proposals have in effect superseded the results and ensuring they are fair, balanced and understandable.
FRCs comply-or-explain approach that underpins the Code The external auditors also provide an auditors report to the which would otherwise have applied to the Company for the members providing an independent opinion on the truth and first time this year.
The FRC plans to withdraw this tendering fairness of the Groups financial statements.
This report can be provision during 2014. found on page 139.
An external auditors review report of the  LLP has been the Companys auditor Group is also included in the half yearly results announcement.
for more than 20 years and the transitional rules that the EU has proposed are expected to require an initial change of audit RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Group has well established risk management and internal firms no later than 2020.
The Committee will continue to consider annually whether to conduct an audit tender for audit quality or control processes.
These are regularly subject to audit and the results are reported to the Audit Committee and the Board independence reasons.
iPOM is the Group wide risk management The external auditors attend all Committee meetings and the programme, which has the objective to drive risk management Committee also meets with the external auditors without and risk aware behaviours across the Group.
Day to day management of risk is delegated to the iPOM EFFECTIVENESS AND INDEPENDENCE OF Committee, which consists of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group HR Director, the Group EXTERNAL AUDITORS General Counsel, the Group Audit Director and the Group The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit Head of Corporate Assurance.
The Committee meets six process during the year by: times a year to manage oversight of systemic and dynamic Reviewing the experience and expertise of the auditors risk at Group level and throughout the markets.
Reviewing the completion and variations, if any, of the It has a broad remit which ensures that: audit plan the correct management focus is on key risks and actions to Reviewing the thoroughness and insight of the external auditors mitigate or respond to identified and emerging risks in the treatment of principal accounting judgements a compliance programme is in place in all markets and head Reviewing the content of the Report to the Audit Committee offices which meets or exceeds external benchmarks and is The Committee received a formal statement of independence appropriate in terms of the legal requirements, content, sector, from the external auditors when the external auditors presented cost and resource requirement their Report to the Audit Committee for the interim review and appropriate defences are in place to mitigate exposure to, year end audit.
The reports identified their assessment of key or effect a response to, any risk that may crystallise issues arising from their work and highlighted the principal accounting judgements underlying the Groups results to Further information on the risk management process can be found in the Accountability section of the Corporate Governance assist the Audit Committee in carrying out its own review of the interim and year end financial information.
To safeguard the auditors independence the external INTERNAL AUDIT auditors must: The Committee reviewed and agreed the Internal Audit Plan.
This included the proposed audit approach, allocation of not undertake certain non-audit services resources and the number of audits to be undertaken.
request authority from the Audit Committee Chairman for The Group Audit Director reported regularly on the audits non-audit services above a specific fee level carried out, which covered a range of operational, financial The Committee reviewed its policy of services provided by the and IT processes and progress was reviewed against the Plan.
external auditors for non-audit services.
The policy is in place to The Group Audit Director and his team met with the Committee ensure that the external auditors objectivity and independence without the presence of management.
are not compromised by earning a disproportionate level of fees for non-audit services or by performing work which, by its nature, EXTERNAL AUDIT may compromise the external auditors independence.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that The level and nature of non-audit fees are reviewed at year end a resolution be put to shareholders at the Annual General and at the half year to ensure that the policy is being adhered Meeting to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to.
The current policy is to maintain a 1:0.5 fee ratio except of the Company for a further year subject to their continued where expressly approved by the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee reviewed the Non-audit fees relate mainly to tax advisory services.
effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors and no matters of concern were raised during 2013.
The Audit Committee is responsible for authorising the provision of any non-audit services provided by the external auditor before they may commence and a breakdown of fees paid can be found on page 100 in note 3d.
56 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Independence The Committee reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and agreed to recommend to NOMINATIONS the Board that it should determine that they remain independent COMMITTEE REPORT in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Length of service The Committee reviewed the time served by the Non-Executive Directors and confirmed that it was comfortable with the continued service of the Non-Executive Directors.
Simon Borrows completed his initial three year term in 2013.
The KEN HANNA, Committee evaluated his performance and agreed that he CHAIRMAN should be appointed for a further three year term subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Time commitment The Committee reviewed the time Evaluate balance of skills, knowledge and experience commitment required by the Non-Executive Directors and on the Board confirmed that it was satisfied that all Directors had met or exceeded the time commitment required.
Agree skills profile for candidates to fill vacant Board positions Election Re-election of Directors In accordance with the UK Nominate suitable candidates for Board approval Corporate Governance Code, the Committee recommended Succession planning for Executive Directors and to the Board that all Directors stand for election or re-election Senior Management at the Annual General Meeting.
Review the size and structure of the Board Policy on Board appointments The Committee reviewed its policy on multiple board appointments and confirmed that The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee can be the Directors had complied with the policy during the year.
com about us governance Diversity policy the Committee recognises the benefits Only members of the Committee are required to attend of having a diverse Board and sees increasing diversity at Committee meetings however, other individuals such as the Board level as an essential element in delivering the Groups Group HR Director and external consultants are able to attend strategy and objectives.
Membership and meetings held during 2013 are shown in the table on page 51.
The Company believes that a truly diverse Board will include and make good use of differences in skills, regional and ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR industry experience as well as background, race and gender.
Composition of the Board and its Committees Will Samuel These differences will be considered in determining optimum retired from the Board in May 2013.
After a review of the skills and composition of the Board and when possible should be competencies of the Board, it was agreed that a Director with balanced appropriately.
All Board appointments are made financial experience would benefit and strengthen the Board.
on merit and in the context of the skills and experience needed for the Board to be effective.
A skills profile was prepared and an external search consultant, The Inzito Partnership, appointed to assist in the recruitment process.
Succession planning The Committees terms of reference John Langston was identified as a suitable candidate and his state that it is responsible for giving full consideration to appointment was recommended to the Board for approval.
succession planning for the Directors and members of The Inzito Partnership does not provide any other services nor the Group Executive Committee, taking into account the does it have any other connection with the Company.
challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
During 2013, succession planning was discussed as part of the two It was also agreed that Simon Borrows would be appointed day Group strategy review by the Board.
the Senior Independent Director and step down from his role as Audit Committee Chair whilst remaining a Committee member.
John Langston was appointed as the Audit Committee Chairman with effect from 1 September 2013.
Other changes during the year include the appointment of Till Vestring as a member of the Nominations Committee.
