Audit Committee Report CHAIRMAN DR BRENDAN ONEILL OBJECTIVE To be responsible for corporate Other members: reporting, risk management and internal John Davis control procedures, and for maintaining Stephen Carter until 1 August 2013 the relationship with the Companys Cindy Rose from 1 August 2013 external auditor.
Gareth Bullock from 1 January 2014 Secretary Rupert Hopley Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee the Committee for the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
The members of the Committee are set out above and below, and meeting attendance can be found on page 44.
One of the core requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code is for the Annual Report and Accounts to provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial reporting, internal control policies, and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk and that these remain effective.
The Committee devotes significant time to each of these elements.
The production of the Annual Report and Accounts is a sizeable exercise performed alongside the formal audit process carried out by the external auditor.
The Committees agenda for 2013 has included the usual review of our financial results and controls, our business operations and their management of risk.
Further details are included below.
The Board considers that the Committees members have broad commercial knowledge and a suitable mix of business and financial experience.
Membership of the Committee changed during 2013 when Stephen Carter stepped down as a member of the Committee and Cindy Rose became a member on 1 August 2013.
Gareth Bullock also became a member of the Committee on his appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2014.
Dr Brendan ONeill Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee Composition meetings of the Committee operate so Duties as to investigate the key accounting, The membership of the Committee is set The Committees terms of reference are audit and risk issues that are relevant to out above.
The Committee met three times available on the Companys website and the Group.
The mixture of experience during the year to 31 December 2013 and were updated in December 2013.
The of its members assists in providing a all meetings were fully attended by the Committees terms of reference allow it to challenging environment in which these members.
It meets as appropriate with obtain independent external advice at the issues are debated.
The Finance Director, the Executive Directors and management, Companys expense.
No such advice was Deputy Finance Director, Head of Internal as well as privately with both the external obtained during 2013.
Audit and Head of Group Tax attend all and internal auditors.
The Committee The Committee is responsible for: or part of its proceedings in order to has during the year to 31 December 2013 provide information to, and be questioned received sufficient, reliable and timely Reviewing the content of the Annual by, the Committee.
The composition information from the senior managers to Report and Accounts and advising of the Committee was reviewed during enable it to fulfil its duties.
the Board on whether, taken as the year and the Board and Committee a whole, it is fair, balanced and Governance are satisfied that it has the expertise understandable and provides the and resource to fulfil its responsibilities The Committees Chairman, Dr Brendan information necessary for shareholders effectively including those relating to risk ONeill, is a qualified Management to assess the Companys performance, and control.
As part of the internal annual Accountant and has extensive experience business model and strategy: Board review, the Committee took a of Audit Committee procedures.
John monitoring the integrity of the thorough evaluation of itself.
Davis is also a qualified Chartered Groups Financial Statements and Accountant and until November 2010 any formal announcements relating was the Chief Financial Officer of Yell to the Groups performance: Group plc renamed Hibu plc.
The Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 45 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued Duties continued recommending to the full Board, Carrying value of goodwill and which adopted the recommendation, intangible assets: monitoring the effectiveness of the the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP external audit process and evaluating The Committee considered whether as the Groups external auditor: the external auditor: the carrying value of goodwill and reviewing and recommending to the intangible assets held by the Group making recommendations to the Board the audit fee and reviewing should be impaired.
The judgement Board in relation to the appointment, non-audit fees payable to the Groups in relation to impairment largely re-appointment and remuneration external auditor: relates to the assumptions underlying of the external auditor: the calculation of the value in use reviewing the external auditors plan ensuring that an appropriate of the cash generating units being for the audit of the Groups financial relationship between the Group and tested for impairment.
This involves statements, which included key areas of the external auditor is maintained, considering whether the five year scope of work, key risks on the financial including reviewing non-audit related operating profit forecasts produced statements, confirmation of auditor services and fees: by management are achievable, the independence and the proposed audit overall macroeconomic assumptions annually reviewing the Groups system fee, and approving the terms which underlie the valuation process of internal controls and the process for of engagement for the audit: and the discount rates used.
The identifying, evaluating and managing Committee principally addressed this reviewing the Groups system of controls the significant risks faced by the Group: matter using reports received from and its effectiveness.
In particular, it reviewing the effectiveness of the management outlining the headroom approves the annual internal audit plan Group Internal Audit function and for on the impairment testing, focussing and reviews the work done by Internal approving, upon the recommendation in particular on the carrying value Audit and actions which are agreed of the Group Chief Executive, the assessment for European Conferences.
following the work: appointment and termination of Recoverability of long-term receivables: approving the decision to continue with the head of that function.
These an outsourced Internal Audit function, responsibilities are principally carried The Committee considered whether and overseeing the reappointment of out through the Risk Committee the long-term receivables held by the KPMG LLP in this role: whose activities are overseen by the Group were recoverable.
As described Chairman of the Audit Committee on in the Principal Risk Factors, the Group reviewing the Groups systems to behalf of the Board: and has a small number of long-term identify and manage risks including external loans where the recoverability regular consultation with the Head monitoring the Groups whistleblowing of the capital and interest payments of Internal Audit and in particular procedures to ensure that appropriate is dependent on the financial success the operation of the Groups Risk arrangements are in place for of those external parties over the Committee : and employees to be able to raise in coming years.
Since the majority confidence matters of possible reviewing post-acquisition reports of the repayment terms are over a impropriety, with suitable on integration and performance long period of time, assessing the subsequent follow-up action.
of significant recent acquisitions future recoverability of the long-term compared to plans.
Activities of the Committee receivables involves judgement.
The during the year Committee addressed this matter by Financial reporting and significant challenging management on their In 2013, the Committee fulfilled its judgement areas assumptions and then requesting duties under its terms of reference and In assessing the appropriateness of the reports on the receivables where they discharged its responsibilities primarily by: financial statements, the Committee felt further explanation was required.
assesses whether suitable accounting reviewing the Groups draft full year policies have been adopted and whether Accounting for acquisition and half-yearly results statements management have made appropriate and disposals: prior to Board approval and reviewing estimates and judgements.
The Committee the external auditors detailed reports The Committee notes that there is reviews accounting papers prepared by thereon.
In particular reviewing the judgement involved in identifying management which provide details on the opinions of management and the and valuing the consideration and main financial reporting judgements.
The auditor in relation to the carrying the assets acquired in a business Committee also reviews reports by the values of the Groups assets: combination or in the acquisition of external auditor on the full year and halfa businesses trade and assets.
The reviewing the appropriateness of yearly results which highlight any issues Committee also notes that there is the Groups accounting policies: with respect to the work undertaken on judgement involved in the accounting the audit.
During the year end process, the reviewing the impact on the Groups for disposals, particularly around the Committee concentrated on the following financial statements of matters such as valuation of consideration receivable.
significant judgement areas: the adoption of International Financial The Committee addressed this matter Reporting Standards: by challenging management on INFORMA PLC 46 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 their assumptions and methodology To fulfil its responsibility regarding the external auditor is required to rotate the supporting the fair value of intangible independence of the external auditor, senior statutory audit partner responsible and net assets acquired for each the Committee reviewed: for the Group and Parent Company significant acquisition in the year.
The current senior the external auditors plan for the There was also particular focus on the statutory audit partner Ian Waller has current year, noting the role of the presentation and calculation of the loss been in place since 2009 and as such senior statutory audit partner, who on disposal.
rotated off the audit after approving the signs the audit report and who, in Financial Statements for the year ended 31 Tax provisioning: accordance with professional rules, has December 2013.
The new senior statutory not held office for more than five years, audit partner will be Tony Morris.
There The Committee considered the and any changes in the key audit staff: are no contractual obligations restricting Groups approach to tax provisioning.
the Groups choice of external auditor.
The As described in the Principal Risk the arrangements for day-to-day Committee has reviewed the requirements Factors, the Group operates in a large management of the audit relationship: of the Code and the non-binding number of countries, and accordingly, a report from the external auditor suggested transitional arrangements in its earnings are subject to tax in many describing their arrangements to the FRC Guidance relating to the new jurisdictions.
The judgement in relation identify, report and manage any provision for FTSE 350 companies to put to tax provisioning is a combination conflicts of interest: and the external audit contract out to tender at of the Committees assessment of the least every ten years.
The Committee notes specific open tax issues and also a the overall extent of non-audit that it has to complete a re-tender process review of the time periods in which the services provided by the external by 2019, and will regularly review whether Groups tax affairs are open to enquiry auditor, in addition to its approval to initiate a re-tender process earlier than by local tax inspectors in jurisdictions of the provision of non-audit services 2019 if it feels it is necessary.
where the Group has a larger taxable by the external auditor that exceed presence.
The Committee addressed the pre-approval threshold.
The Group has in place a policy for the this matter through the presentation of provision of non-audit services by the To assess the effectiveness of the a management report on the Groups external auditor.
This policy provides external auditor, the Committee reviewed: tax affairs by the Head of Group Tax that the firms services may only be and through a presentation of the the arrangements for ensuring the provided where auditor objectivity external auditors assessment of the external auditors independence and independence may be securely Groups tax provisioning.
and objectivity: safeguarded and where the fees payable either in respect of the assigned work External Auditor the external auditors fulfilment of the or overall in any year do not exceed the The Committee is also responsible agreed audit plan and any variations amount of fees payable in respect of its for the development, implementation from the plan: audit work.
The Committee considers that and monitoring of the Groups policy the robustness and perceptiveness of non-audit services should be provided on external audit.
The policy assigns the auditor in their handling of the key by the external auditor given their oversight responsibility for monitoring accounting and audit judgements: and existing knowledge of the business and is the independence, objectivity and therefore the most efficient and effective compliance with ethical and regulatory the content of the external auditors way for non-audit services to be carried requirements to the Committee, and reporting on internal control.
The fees paid to the external auditor day to day responsibility to the Finance for both audit and non-audit services can Following the above, the Committee has Director.
It states that the external auditor be found in Note 7. recommended to the Board that Deloitte is jointly responsible to the Board and the LLP is re-appointed as the Groups external Committee and that the Committee is the Non-audit services, other than audit auditor at the 2014 AGM.
Deloitte LLP has primary contact.
The policy also sets out related services, provided by the external been the Groups external auditor since the categories of non-audit services which auditor during 2013 related to tax advisory 2004 when the last external audit tender the external auditor will and will not be services and hosting training seminars was carried out.
The Committee considers allowed to provide to the Group, subject attending by Informa employees.
All of that the relationship with the external to fide minimis levels.
these services were below the Groups auditor is working well and remains pre-approval threshold.
The Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 47 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued External Auditor continued Policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditor: Permitted Non-Audit Services, subject to approval Prohibited Non-Audit Services under the policy Acquisition or disposal advice and support.
Bookkeeping or other services related to accounting records or financial statements.
Financial information systems design and implementation.
Consultancy services related to the implementation of management information systems.
Appraisal or valuation services are prohibited where significant subjectivity is involved as the auditors may have to audit their own work.
Legal Services if these are related to significant Group matters.
Internal audit outsourcing services which are restricted to the Tax services on a contingent fee basis.
provision of specialist resources where the external audit team will not place reliance on their own work.
Tax compliance, tax planning and tax advisory work, following an appropriate tender process: subject to Committee Chairman pre-approval for significant contracts and annual review of overall amounts.
Expatriate tax work, subject to Group HR approval and Committee Chairman pre-approval for significant contracts and annual review of overall amounts.
Other assurance services no pre-approval is required where it is in the normal course of the auditors work to perform such activities.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Dr Brendan ONeill Chairman of the Audit Committee 21 February 2014 INFORMA PLC 48 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013
