Nomination Committee Report CHAIRMAN DEREK MAPP OBJECTIVE To ensure there is a formal, rigorous Other members: and transparent procedure for the Dr Pamela Kirby appointment of new Directors to John Davis the Board and its Committees.
Secretary Rupert Hopley GOVERNANCE Activities of the Committee during Board and Employee Diversity the year All the members of the Nomination Informa operates a successful business Committee the Committee are The Committee met four times during the based on a proven track record of equal independent Non-Executive Directors.
year to address the various changes to the opportunity and reward for performance.
Board composition, including identifying Around 57% of our employees are women Duties and nominating a successor to Peter Rigby 3,736 out of a total of 6,515 and they The Committees terms of reference as Chief Executive: identifying four new account for around 36% of the senior are available on the Companys website Non-Executive Directors, namely Cindy managers 60 out of a total of 166 and were last updated in December Rose, Geoffrey Cooper, Helen Owers and within the Group at 31 December 2013.
The Committees principal Gareth Bullock: and to start the search for Further information on diversity within responsibilities include: a successor to Adam Walker as Finance the Group can be found in the Corporate Director.
In addition, the Committee Responsibility Report on page 33. reviewing the structure, size and reviewed its terms of reference and composition of the Board: At Board level, we believe that the current discussed the composition and the mix representation, as at the date of this report, giving full consideration to succession of skills, knowledge, experience and of three female Non-Executive Directors planning for Directors and senior diversity on the Board.
33% is acceptable for the size of the Board executives, taking into account the Executive and Non-Executive and is above the target that has been set skills and experience needed on the Director Searches for 2015, though it should be noted that Board in the future: Dr Pamela Kirby will step down from the The Committee uses the services of identifying and nominating for approval Board after the AGM on 23 May 2014.
In specialist search consultants to seek by the Board, candidates to fill Board any event, our Board composition and suitable candidates for appointment to the vacancies as and when they arise: size is kept under constant review, so as Board and its Committees.
The Committee to ensure we have the appropriate balance identifies the specific experience and skills evaluating the balance of skills, of skills, experience and knowledge of that we are looking for and then works knowledge, independence, experience the Group within our independent Nonwith the search consultants to find suitable and diversity of the Board prior to any Executive Directors.
candidates who match those criteria.
appointment to the Board: These candidates are interviewed by the Approved by the Board and signed on keeping under review the leadership Committee and the successful candidate is its behalf by needs of the organisation, both proposed by the Committee to the Board Executive and Non-Executive: for approval.
This year the Committee was supported by JCA Group in the reviewing the results of the Board Derek Mapp appointment of Cindy Rose as a Nonperformance evaluation process Chairman of the Nomination Committee Executive Director and Stephen Carter that relate to the composition of 21 February 2014 as Group Chief Executive, and by Egon the Board: and Zehnder in the appointment of Geoffrey annually reviewing the time required Cooper, Helen Owers and Gareth Bullock from Non-Executive Directors.
Neither search Company has any other connection with the Group.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 49
