Corporate Governance Statement DEAR SHAREHOLDER 31 December 2013, except for the external on 1 September 2013, before taking evaluation of the Board Code Provision up the role of Group Chief Executive The Board recognises that it is accountable B.
6.2 as explained below and on page 42. on 1 January 2014.
The Board has also to shareholders for its standards of Together this report, the Audit Committee launched a process to identify and appoint governance and is therefore committed Report, the Nomination Committee Report a new Finance Director and further to the principles of corporate governance and the Remuneration Report on pages announcements will be made in due course.
contained in the UK Corporate Governance 41 to 65, explain how the Company has We also welcomed Cindy Rose as a NonCode the Code published in September applied the principles and supporting Executive Director to the Board on 1 March 2012.
As a company listed on the London principles of good governance set out in 2013.
Geoffrey Cooper, Helen Owers and Stock Exchange, Informa is subject to the the Code.
In accordance with the Code, the Gareth Bullock joined the Board as NonListing Rules of the Financial Conduct Audit Committee has provided assurance Executive Directors on 1 January 2014.
As Authority the FCA and complies with to the Board that the Annual Report and explained in the Nomination Committee the provisions of the Code and relevant Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Report on page 49, Informa has achieved institutional shareholder guidelines.
As and understandable and all the matters that the target of 25% of females on the Board Informa is incorporated in Jersey, it is not have been brought to the attention of the as set out by the Davies Report in 2011. subject to the UK Companies Act.
However, Board during the year have been reflected the Board considers it appropriate to Informa carries out an internal Board in the Annual Report and Accounts.
provide shareholder safeguards which evaluation each year and undertook the are similar to those that apply to a UK The Board has undergone some last external evaluation three years ago.
As registered company and are consistent significant changes during the year and there has been a significant change to the with the relevant provisions of the UK this continued into the beginning of 2014.
Board composition, a decision was taken to Companies Act.
Peter Rigby retired as Chief Executive carry out our external Board evaluation in and Adam Walker resigned as Finance the second half of 2014.
This report describes how Informa has Director on 31 December 2013.
The Board applied the main provisions of the Code.
is delighted that Stephen Carter has It is in the Boards view that the Company Derek Mapp accepted the position of Group Chief has been fully compliant with all the Code Executive and started as CEO-Designate Chairman provisions throughout the year ended THE BOARD approving the Groups annual operating monitoring of the operating and and capital expenditure budgets: financial results against plans Informa plc is the ultimate holding Company and budgets: of the Group and is controlled by its Board reviewing operational and financial of Directors.
The Board, chaired by Derek performance: monitoring the performance of Mapp, has nine Directors, comprising one acquisitions and investments against approving major acquisitions, disposals Executive Director and eight Non-Executive plans and objectives: and capital projects: Directors as at 1 January 2014.
The Board prioritising the allocation of capital, members as at 31 December 2013 are noted reviewing the Groups systems of technical and human resources: and on pages 34 and 35 and in the Directors internal control and risk management: Report on page 37.
Apart from the changes developing and implementing risk described above, there were no other reviewing the environmental, health and management systems.
changes to the Board throughout the year safety policies of the Group: under review.
The Boards main roles are Full details of the matters reserved for the approving appointments to, and to create value for shareholders, to provide Board are available at www.
removals from, the Board and of the entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to Company Secretary: THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, approve the Groups strategic objectives CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND SENIOR and to ensure that the necessary financial approving policies relating to INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR and human resources are made available to Directors remuneration: and The division of responsibilities between the enable those objectives to be met.
reviewing the dividend policy and Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD determining the amounts of dividends.
and the Senior Independent Director A schedule which sets out the matters comply with the guidance from the UK The Board has delegated the following reserved for the Boards approval is Institute of Chartered Secretaries and activities to the Executive Directors: reviewed and updated annually with the Administrators ICSA and as such are last review conducted in December 2013. the development and recommendation clearly defined.
These are set out in writing, The specific responsibilities reserved for of strategic plans for consideration by have been approved by the Board and are the Board include, but are not limited to: the Board that reflect the longer-term available on the Companys website.
objectives and priorities established responsibility for the overall by the Board: management of the Group: implementation of the strategies and approving the Groups long-term policies of the Group as determined objectives and commercial strategy: by the Board: Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 41 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS Regular reports and papers are circulated CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND SENIOR INDEPENDENCE to the Directors in a timely manner in INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR CONTINUED preparation for Board and Committee The Board includes independent Nonmeetings.
These papers are supplemented Derek Mapp has been Non-Executive Executive Directors who constructively by any information specifically requested Chairman since 17 March 2008 and challenge and help develop proposals on by the Directors from time to time.
The as Chairman, he leads the Board and strategy and bring strong, independent Non-Executive Directors receive monthly is responsible for setting its agenda judgement, knowledge and experience to management reports from the Group and ensuring its effectiveness.
The independent Chief Executive and the Finance Director is also responsible for ensuring that Directors are of sufficient calibre and which enable them to scrutinise the Directors receive accurate, timely and number that their views carry significant Groups and managements performance clear information and for effective weight in the Boards decision-making against agreed objectives.
More details on communication with shareholders.
The Board considers all of its NonBoard and Committee meetings can be promotes a culture of openness and debate Executive Directors to be independent found on page 44. to facilitate the effective contribution of in character and judgement.
There is an Non-Executive Directors and constructive agreed procedure in place for the Directors PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF relations between the Executive and Nonto obtain independent professional THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Executive Directors.
He also acts on the advice, at the Groups expense, should The Board utilises a formal and rigorous results of the Board performance evaluation they consider it necessary to do so in process, led by the Chairman, for the annual by leading on the implementation of any order to carry out their responsibilities.
internal evaluation of the performance of required changes to the Board and its The Directors contracts are available for the Board, its principal committees and Committees including recognising the inspection at the registered office and individual Directors.
On appointment, strengths and addressing the weaknesses principal office during normal business the Directors are made aware that their of the Board, and, where appropriate, hours and will be available for inspection performance will be subject to evaluation.
proposes new members be appointed to at the AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the the Board or seeking the resignation of INFORMATION AND Senior Independent Director, meet at Directors.
The Chairman holds periodic PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT least annually to appraise the Chairmans meetings with Non-Executive Directors performance.
The last external Board On appointment, the Directors receive without the Executives present.
evaluation was carried out by Alvarez and relevant information about the Group, Peter Rigby retired as Chief Executive Marsal and Hanson Green in 2010 of the the role of the Board and the matters on 31 December 2013.
Stephen Carter corporate governance of the Company, reserved for its decision, the terms of was appointed as CEO-Designate on including an evaluation of its Chairman.
reference and membership of the principal 1 September 2013 and as Group Chief Alvarez and Marsal and Hanson Green have Board Committees, the Groups corporate Executive on 1 January 2014 and has the no other connection with the Company.
governance policies and procedures and responsibility of running the Company.
As The Board has concluded that due to the the latest financial information about Group Chief Executive, he has direct charge changes in the composition of the Board the Group.
This is supplemented by of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is in 2013, it is in the best interests of the introductory meetings with key divisional accountable to the Board for its operational Company as a whole that a new external and Group function senior executives and financial performance.
He is also Board evaluation should take place in who provide detailed information about primarily responsible for implementation of 2014.
That would allow time for the new the Company, the relevant markets, the the Companys strategy including ensuring members to settle in and the review to be business units and their trading.
Finally, on the achievement of the Groups budgets as constructive and meaningful as possible.
appointment and from time to time, the and optimising the Groups resources.
He Directors are reminded of their legal and RE-ELECTION also has primary responsibility for managing other duties and obligations as a Director The Articles provide for all Directors to the Groups risk profile, identifying and of a listed company.
be subject to annual re-election at the executing new business opportunities Throughout their period in office, the AGM.
The Board is satisfied, following and for management development Directors are regularly updated on the internal evaluation in 2013, that each and remuneration.
Groups business and the environment in Director continues to be effective and to Dr Pamela Kirby was appointed as Senior which it operates, by written briefings and demonstrate commitment to their role.
Independent Director on 17 March 2008 by meetings with senior executives, who THE COMPANY SECRETARY and is available to meet shareholders on are invited to attend and present at Board request and to ensure that the Board is Rupert Hopley has been Company meetings from time to time.
They are also aware of any shareholder concerns not Secretary and Group General Counsel of updated on any changes to the legal and resolved through existing mechanisms the Company since 1 November 2011.
The governance requirements of the Group and for investor communication.
She acts as Company Secretary is responsible for those which affect themselves as Directors a sounding Board for the Chairman and, advising the Board through the Chairman and are able to obtain training, at the if and when appropriate, serves as an on all governance matters and all Directors Groups expense, to ensure they are kept intermediary for the other Directors.
She have access to his advice and services.
up-to-date on relevant new legislation and will step down as Senior Independent changing commercial risks.
Director and from the Board at the AGM on 23 May 2014.
INFORMA PLC 42 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Groups corporate website at The key features of Informas internal control www.
com provides a wide range and risk management systems in relation to The Company is committed to maintaining of information about the Group which is the financial reporting process include: good communications with investors and of interest to both institutional and private has a full time Head of Investor Relations, Business planning all business units investors.
This includes all announcements Richard Menzies-Gow, who was appointed produce and agree an annual business made by the Company to the FCA, as well on 5 September 2012.
Derek Mapp as plan against which the performance of as video recordings of the interim and Chairman and Dr Pamela Kirby as Senior the business is regularly monitored.
annual presentations made to analysts, Independent Director provide the Board and details of the Groups businesses Financial analysis each business with feedback on any issues raised with and sectors in which it operates.
units operating profitability and them by shareholders.
Dr Kirby will step capital expenditure are closely down as Senior Independent Director and PROCEDURES TO DEAL WITH monitored.
Management incentives from the Board at the AGM on 23 May 2014.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST are tied to financial results.
These Financial information is announced on a The Articles include provisions covering results include explanations of quarterly basis.
The Group Chief Executive Directors conflicts of interest and allow the variances between forecast, actual and Finance Director give presentations Board to authorise any matter that would and budgeted performance, and on the half-yearly and full year results in otherwise involve a Director breaching are reviewed in detail by executive face to face meetings with institutional his duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
The management on a monthly basis.
Key investors, analysts and the media, which Company has procedures in place to deal financial information is reported to the are also accessible via webcast on with a situation where a Director has a Board on a monthly basis.
After the release of conflict of interest.
As part of this process, Group Authority Framework the the Interim Management Statements in the Board will endeavour to: framework provides clear guidelines for respect of the first and third quarters, consider each conflict situation all business units of the approval limits the Company holds conference calls with separately on its particular facts: for capital and operating expenditure, institutional investors, analysts and the and other key business decisions.
In addition to these presentations, consider the conflict situation in the Executive Directors have frequent conjunction with the Articles: Risk assessment a risk assessment is discussions with institutional shareholders embedded into the operations of the keep records and Board minutes as to on a range of issues, including governance Group and a risk register is submitted authorisations granted by Directors and and strategy, affecting the Groups to executive management and the the scope of any approvals given: and performance.
Meetings are also held Board for approval.
Each business unit with the Groups largest institutional regularly review conflict authorisations.
considers the significant risks to its shareholders on an individual basis business and to the achievement of the INTERNAL CONTROL following the announcement of the Groups proposed plan.
In doing so, each unit AND RISK MANAGEMENT half-yearly and full year results and on considers risk in terms of probability other occasions.
In addition, the Group The Board is responsible for the Groups of occurrence and potential impact on responds to individual ad hoc requests for system of internal control and for reviewing performance, and mitigating actions, discussions from institutional shareholders.
Such a system is designed control effectiveness and management Following meetings held with shareholders to manage rather than eliminate the risk responsibility are identified to address after the half-yearly and full year results of failure to achieve business objectives these risks.
announcements, the Board is provided with and can only provide reasonable, and feedback from the Executive Directors, not absolute, assurance against material the Head of Investor Relations, the Groups misstatement or loss.
The concept of brokers and its public relations advisers reasonable assurance recognises that the on investor perceptions.
The Companys cost of control procedures should not brokers reports on the Group are also exceed the expected benefits.
circulated to all Directors, as are monthly The Board has an ongoing process for reports of significant changes in the identifying, evaluating and managing the holdings of larger investors.
significant risks faced by the Group.
This The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders process was in place throughout 2013 and to ask questions and to meet with the up to the date of approval of the Annual Directors, all of whom attended the 2013 Report and Accounts, and is in accordance meeting.
The number of proxy votes for, with the Turnbull Guidance Internal against or withheld in respect of each Control: Revised Guidance for Directors resolution is disclosed at the AGM and a on the Combined Code.
separate resolution is proposed for each item.
The Company aims to give as much notice of the AGM as possible and at least 21 clear days notice, as required by the Articles.
In practice the documents are sent to shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 43 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued INTERNAL CONTROL and evaluated in detail at least once KPMG LLP are engaged to provide the AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED a year by the Risk Committee.
These Group with Internal Audit services and The Board regularly reviews the principal risk factors are discussed in act as Head of Internal Audit.
The Board effectiveness of the Groups system of more detail on pages 28 to 31. confirms that no significant failings or internal controls, including financial, weaknesses have been identified from the The Audit Committee has approved a operational and compliance controls, risk reviews performed by Internal Audit.
schedule of work to be undertaken by management and the Groups high-level the Groups nominated external auditor BOARD MEETINGS AND COMMITTEES internal control arrangements.
The Audit during the period and receives reports At each meeting the Board receives Committee has been charged by the Board on any issues identified in the course information regarding current trading, with oversight of the above-mentioned of their work, including internal control business unit performance, treasury controls for the period and they have reports on control weaknesses.
Any information, potential acquisitions and considered the following in determining identified issues are reported to the investor relations analysis.
At certain times the overall effectiveness of the Groups Board and are tracked until conclusion.
of the year the Board reviews and discusses risks and associated control environment: budgets, capital expenditure, risks, financial The Audit Committee has approved The Risk Committee reports on the statements and strategy.
The Board is also a schedule of work to be undertaken effectiveness of risk management, provided with updates, when appropriate by the Groups Internal Audit team governance and compliance activity on aspects such as changes in legislation during the period and receives reports within the Group.
This Committee and the business environment, in addition on any issues identified in respect of comprises the Group Chief Executive, to regular investor feedback.
the Groups business processes and a cross section of senior officers control activities over the Groups key Each Committee reports to, and has its and managers of the Group and is risk areas, including following up on the Terms of Reference approved by, the chaired by the Finance Director.
The implementation of management action Board, and all Board and Committee Risk Committee supports the Board plans to address any identified control minutes are circulated as soon as possible in its consideration of current and weaknesses and reporting any overdue after each meeting.
The number of forward-looking material business risk actions to the Audit Committee.
scheduled Board meetings and Committee exposures.
A programme of deep dive meetings attended as a member by each reviews of each of the principal risk Director during the year are set out below.
factors of the Group is in place, with each principal risk factor discussed Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings of 7 of 3 of 6 of 4 Derek Mapp 7 4 Peter Rigby 7 Adam Walker 7 Pamela Kirby 7 6 4 John Davis 7 3 6 4 Brendan ONeill 7 3 6 1 Stephen Carter 7 2 2 Cindy Rose 6 2 1 Stephen Carter was appointed as CEO-Designate on 1 September 2013 and as Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2014.
He stepped down from the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013.
2 Cindy Rose was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2013 and became a member of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013.
Separate reports from the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees can be found on pages 45 to 65.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Rupert Hopley Company Secretary 21 February 2014 INFORMA PLC 44 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013
