Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Corporate Governance Andrew Sukawaty The Board Executive Chairman Composition Our Board comprises Directors drawn from a wide range Governance: Chairmans Introduction of professional backgrounds.
All our Directors bring strong Your Board manages the Inmarsat business in a transparent, open judgement to the Boards deliberations.
As reported last year, and honest manner.
We achieve this by maintaining high standards with several of the originally appointed Non-Executive Directors of corporate governance.
The Board is ultimately responsible to reaching a nine year term with the Company at the 2014 Annual shareholders for all our activities: for delivering our strategy and General Meeting AGM, the Board was conscious of the need to financial performance, for efficiently using our resources and for manage a smooth transition of changes in Non-Executive Directors social, environmental and ethical matters.
so as not to lose key knowledge during any handover periods.
With this in mind, the Board was delighted to announce the The Board approves the Groups governance framework with the appointments of Simon Bax and Dr Abe Peled as independent Board committees contributing their specialist focus to key areas Non-Executive Directors on 19 June 2013.
The Board also noted such as remuneration policy, internal controls and risk that Retired Admiral James Ellis Jnr will not put himself forward for management.
re-election at the AGM and retired from the board at its meeting on 4 March.
We thank Jim for his significant contributions during Our governance framework includes the changes introduced by his nine years on the Board.
On 3 January 2014, Rick Medlock left the updated UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the the Company as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer.
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and The Board would like to thank him for his valuable contributions Report Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
Some throughout his nine years with the Company.
amendments have been required, mainly to how we present some sections of the Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report and As at 6 March 2014, the composition of the Board is two Executive more particularly the format of our Remuneration Report, now Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
With the exception incorporating a Remuneration Policy and an Annual Report on of the two new appointees, all Directors served throughout Remuneration.
We also include a statement made by the Directors, on page 71, The names of the Directors on our Board, their relevant skills and that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, experience are set out in their biographical details and can be balanced and understandable.
The processes including financial found on pages 38 and 39. controls and reporting, and risk management, which underpin and support our confidence in making this statement are longThe composition of the Board and its various Committees is established and embedded into our business.
In addition our regularly reviewed and evaluated so as to reflect the balance of Internal Audit Department reviewed the narrative sections of the skills, knowledge, diversity of which gender is one component, Annual Report.
In line with its terms of reference, a subset of the experience and the ability of Directors to provide sufficient time Disclosure Committee also reviews the Annual Report to ensure it to fulfil their Board responsibilities.
contains all necessary disclosures to fairly present the Companys In succession planning for the Board and within the Group, the and the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
Our Board takes into account the need for diversity generally, and is external auditors review the narrative sections of the Annual Report in support of the principle as outlined in Lord Daviess report to identify any material inconsistencies with the financial Women on boards.
The Board currently has two female Nonstatements.
Our Board members receive drafts of the Annual Executive Directors, representing, as a percentage, 22% of the Report in sufficient time to facilitate their review and input.
Across our business of approximately The information in this section of the Annual Report will help you to 1,600 employees, female employees represent approximately 29%, understand how your Board has run the Company, managed risks, with around 24% performing managerial roles.
monitored control, and how decisions have been taken.
Andrew Sukawaty Executive Chairman 6 March 2014 INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 43 Corporate Governance continued How the Board operates To ensure effective corporate governance, the Board has structured its governance framework as set out below.
The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising its authority.
The permanent Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Each Committee has Terms of Reference under which authority is delegated by the Board.
A copy can be found on our website at www.
Reports of the committees can be found on pages 50 to 70.
Board Committees Chairman Inmarsat plc Board AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Oversight and review of financial, Oversight and review of Oversight and review of risk management, audit and remuneration, bonus Board and senior management internal control issues.
Read more on page 50 Read more on page 54 Read more on page 53 Role of the Board establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption wherever Our Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Inmarsat and in whatever form it may be encountered, a formal Groups the Group business.
It is the primary decision-making anti-corruption policy was approved by the Board in 2011. body for all material matters affecting the Group.
It provides Appropriate procedures have been put in place, in line with leadership and guidance, and sets our strategic direction.
guidance provided by the Ministry of Justice to ensure compliance with current legislation and the Companys anti-bribery policy Our Board is ultimately accountable to the shareholders for the and related procedures.
performance and proper conduct of the business.
Responsibility for implementing strategy within the Groups operations and for Directors and Officers insurance cover has been established for day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the Chief all Directors and Officers to provide cover against their reasonable Executive Officer who, as part of the Executive Staff team, cascades actions on behalf of the Company.
Each Director has a deed this responsibility through the Group.
Details of the team are listed providing indemnification as a supplement to the insurance cover.
The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision or of interest.
The Companys Articles of Association also contain consideration by the Board as a whole has been agreed by the provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts Directors.
This schedule covers areas such as the Groups business of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his her duty under strategy and long term plans: major capital projects: investments: company law.
Should a Director become aware that they have an and acquisitions and divestments.
The Board has an annual interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or proposed transaction rolling plan of items for discussion which is reviewed and adapted with the Company, they should notify the Company Secretary in regularly to ensure all matters reserved to the Board, with other line with the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors have a items as appropriate, are discussed.
There is an established continuing duty to update any changes to their conflicts of interest.
procedure for the preparation in advance of each Board or Key roles and responsibilities Committee meeting which normally includes a detailed report on We have an Executive Chairman who will remain in an executive current trading and full papers on matters where the Board will be capacity until the end of 2014.
Having executive roles for both required to make a decision or give approval.
Where appropriate, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO has been a specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees or to purposeful decision by the Board to manage a period in the committees convened for special purposes.
business where we had an internal employee promoted to be Specific annual items for review include an update on the our new CEO in 2012 and were part way through the largest Companys policies for compliance with the Bribery Act, and the US single capital expenditure programme for the Company.
The Foreign & Corrupt Practices Act FCPA requirements and health & responsibilities of each role are in writing and agreed by the Board.
As part of our commitment to preventing bribery and INMARSAT PLC 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 The Chairman To determine their independence, all Non-Executive Directors are Andrew Sukawaty reviewed by the Board annually against any circumstances relevant As Executive Chairman, Mr Sukawaty is employed in a full-time to their current or ongoing independence as set out in the Code.
position and undertakes executive responsibilities as summarised Following such review, the Board considers all the Non-Executive here.
In addition to chairing the Board and ensuring that the Directors to be independent and free of any circumstances that Company meets its fiduciary responsibilities and is accountable could materially interfere with their ability to provide a strong and for those to shareholders, he oversees the evaluation process to valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations, or which could ensure the Boards effective operation.
Mr Sukawaty continues interfere with the individual Directors ability to also act in the best to mentor Mr Pearce as he continues his development in his role interests of the Group.
as CEO and this has been very successful as noted by the Boards John Rennocks, in his capacity as the Senior Independent Director, comments in its 2013 Board evaluation review.
Mr Sukawaty acts as is available to discuss issues or concerns from our shareholders the Companys representative with key governmental and industry where they have been unable to resolve them through existing trade bodies where his previous telecoms experience, combined channels for investor communications.
Mr Rennocks acts as with his knowledge of Inmarsat, are beneficial to our representation Deputy Chairman and we continue to value his contribution.
and influence at these meetings.
In the business, Mr Sukawaty is responsible for driving new business opportunities in key Governance geographic markets Brazil, Russia, India and China.
In addition, Our Board meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct its he drives the decision-making on the future development of our business.
During the year, the Board met eight times, with one handheld satellite phone.
Mr Sukawaty has also assumed of those meetings being held in Washington DC.
The rest of the responsibility for being the Companys nominated individual meetings were held in the UK.
Key management are invited to dealing with the proxy board of our US Government subsidiary attend all Board meetings to present on specific business issues.
The Board remains unanimously of the opinion that Unscheduled supplementary meetings also take place as and retaining Mr Sukawaty in a full-time executive capacity until when necessary.
the end of 2014 significantly benefits the business as it goes through major changes in the lead up to the launch of a new In instances where a Director is unable to attend Board or complementary revenue stream from the Inmarsat 5 Ka-band Committee meeting, any comments which he or she may Global Xpress programme.
have arising out of the papers to be considered at the meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the The Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary who would then report to the Board or Rupert Pearce Committee thereon.
As Chief Executive Officer, Mr Pearce is responsible for the day-to-day running of Inmarsats operations and its financial At the start of 2013, there was a focus on how Directors received results.
Mr Pearce is responsible for recommending the strategic and accessed board papers to optimise time and effectiveness, objectives for the Inmarsat Group, for debate, challenge and and we introduced the use of an electronic portal for the Board.
He has been instrumental in restructuring There has been unanimous support for this new service from all the operations to ensure that we are closer to the markets and Directors.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief partners we serve, efficient in how we manage our business Financial Officer provide reports to the Board and several senior activities and agile in how we make decisions.
Mr Pearce has executives, by invitation, present updates on strategy and the ultimate responsibility for ensuring we meet the milestones for Groups operations.
This way the Board is given exposure to the our key programmes, particularly the Global Xpress programme next layer of management at the Executive Staff level and often covering delivery of satellites, ground network, new distribution from their direct reports.
This is helpful to the Board as it assists channels and development of application technology with planning for management succession.
He will also look to maximise the opportunities Chairmen report verbally on the proceedings of their Committees from our existing L-band business.
These priorities will target at the following Board meeting.
Meeting proceedings and any revenue growth and deliver enhanced returns to shareholders.
unresolved concerns expressed by any Director are minuted by The Board continues to be extremely pleased with Mr Pearces the Company Secretary.
progress in the role as CEO and believes his expanding experience is contributing to the long term success of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors meet annually and on an ad-hoc basis, without the Chairman and other Executive Directors in Mr Pearce is the Board sponsor for environmental and social attendance, to assess the Chairmans performance, discuss governance, community investment, and other corporate social Board balance, monitor the powers of individual Executive responsibility matters.
Directors and raise any issues between themselves as appropriate.
Independent Non-Executive Directors As part of its regular Board meeting schedule, the Board also holds The diverse experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive a two-day strategy meeting each year at which it considers the Directors ensures that they can provide a strong independent future direction of the business.
Strategy sessions are attended by element on the Board, debate, and constructively challenge several senior executives who present on specific agenda items.
management both in relation to the development of strategy Strategy is also reviewed at each regular Board meeting.
and review of the Groups operational and financial performance.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 45 Corporate Governance continued The Company recognises the importance of electronic information, Board effectiveness systems and network security cyber security.
We are increasingly The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own performance required to be compliant with, or align to, various legal, contractual and that of its committees and individual Directors during the year.
and regulatory standards and codes of practice relative to The 2013 evaluation process was undertaken by the Company information security governance and the preservation of the Secretary at the Chairmans request.
The Code requires that the confidentiality, integrity and availability of customer or internal Company conduct an externally facilitated evaluation every three data and services.
To ensure we can meet these business and years and the 2012 Board performance evaluation was facilitated geopolitical requirements, a multi-standards compliance by Duncan Reed of Condign Board Consulting Ltd. programme is underway ensuring compliance with, among others, The evaluation process consisted of a questionnaire sent out in UK, US and international cyber security standards that include advance to each Director and a meeting between the Company CESG CAS T, NIST-800-53 and ISO27001 2 2013.
This is part of a Secretary and each Non-Executive Director to review the broader programme supported by a dedicated cyber security team questionnaire and discuss any other comments.
The outcome of whose primary role is to safeguard the company to meet its legal the review was first discussed with the Chairman and then shared and regulatory obligations, maintain business continuity and limit with the full Board as an agenda item at the Board meetings in damage to business interests by preventing and reducing the January and March 2014.
The full output from the evaluation was occurrence of security incidents and their impact upon business presented in a report to all of the Directors, with collective and operations.
Board meeting attendance The review concluded that Board meetings had good debate and The attendance of the Directors at the Board meetings held in discussion with the right level of query leading up to a decision 2013 is shown in the table below.
Attendance at Committee being made.
The directors all felt that the addition of the two new meetings is shown in the relevant Committee reports.
Non-Executive Directors had augmented the Board discussion Number of scheduled Board meetings held and meeting and provided additional insights.
There remained full support for attendance in 2013 how the Chairman facilitated a culture of openness, honesty and Percentage collegiality and that there was a good rapport between him and Meetings attendance the CEO which was considered an important aspect of how the Andrew Sukawaty Chairman 8 8 100% relationship between the two worked well for the benefit of the Rupert Pearce 8 8 100% Company.
Continuing to receive presentations from senior a management aside from the Executive Directors remained an Rick Medlock 8 8 100% b important element to assist the Board to know how the business Simon Bax 4 4 100% was operating.
Other key areas which also received strong support Sir Bryan Carsberg 8 8 100% from the Board were the Companys risk management systems, Stephen Davidson 8 8 100% investment analysis, and feedback from investors on their c Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 7 8 88% interaction with executive management.
Kathleen Flaherty 8 8 100% b Abe Peled 4 4 100% During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, evaluated the performance Janice Obuchowski 8 8 100% of the Chairman and gave feedback on his performance as John Rennocks 8 8 100% Chairman which was also reflected in the evaluation review.
The a Resigned on 3 January 2014 Chairman did the same in relation to the Directors.
The Chairman b Appointed on 19 June 2013 also meets the Non-Executive Directors on an individual basis at c Resigned on 4 March 2014 least once a year.
Induction and ongoing developments The following recommendations from the 2012 evaluation To ensure that each Director receives appropriate support on review and progress made during 2013 are summarised below: joining the Board, they are given a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction programme organised through the Company More time to discuss the forward agenda planner Secretary, including the provision of background material on the the Board review this every half year.
Company and briefings with senior management.
Each Directors The scheduling of further meetings for the Non-Executive individual experience and background is taken into account in Directors to be chaired by the Deputy Chairman developing a programme tailored to his or her own requirements.
These continue to be undertaken as and when called by The induction programme was reviewed and updated in June 2013 the Deputy Chairman or at the request of another Director to refresh its content for the new Directors who joined the Board.
Two additional Non-Executive Directors were added to the Board during the year: For professional ongoing developments, the Board receives Further ongoing discussion regarding future Board structure.
presentations relevant to the Companys business and updates Ongoing emphasis at the Nominations Committee level on any changes in legislation which may affect the Companys and then at the Board level on formal succession planning operations.
The Company Secretary supplies all Directors with concerning the replenishment of the Non-Executive information on relevant legal and best practice.
INMARSAT PLC 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Key elements arising from the 2013 Board evaluation review are We have announced that we will be appointing an additional as follows: Executive Director to the board on 2 June 2014, when Mr Bates joins as our Chief Financial Officer.
Mr Bates will be put forward Provide a more formal mechanism to follow up with any Director for election by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
The appointment who may need to be absent from a Board Committee meeting.
followed an external search undertaken by Russell Reynolds Ensure agenda timings allow sufficient time for relevant Associates, which was led by the CEO reporting to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Review Board Committee composition and whether rotation Directors remuneration of committee membership should occur.
Details of the Companys Remuneration Policy and Directors Ongoing review of Non-Executive Director replenishment to remuneration are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report provide for an orderly transfer of knowledge.
A desire for additional information on succession planning at the level below the executive management.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for developing and The Non-Executive Directors continue to be highly supportive maintaining the information systems and processes that enable of all the Executive management team and the opportunities to the Board to fulfil its role.
She is also responsible to the Board for meet senior management in informal occasions helps foster ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and advising such an environment.
the Board on all governance matters.
External directorships All Directors have access to the advice and services of the The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of Executive Company Secretary and are able to take independent advice Directors accepting Non-Executive Directorships of other in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
No requests for companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the external professional advice were received during the year.
All such appointments require the prior approval of the Board.
Details of these directorships can be found The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Board Committees in their biographies on pages 38 and 39 and details of the fees paid and the office of the Company Secretary provides support services to them can be found on page 66 of the Remuneration Report.
for each of the Committees.
Appointment and reappointment Relations with shareholders The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board The Company recognises the importance of communicating with during the year.
Directors appointed in this way will, upon the its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance are recommendation of the Board, offer themselves for election by understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
The shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place, whilst the Chairman, The reappointment of Directors is subject to their ongoing Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer ensure that commitment to Board activities and satisfactory performance.
the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a All Directors will stand for reappointment annually in accordance whole.
The Board ensures that the Companys strategic plans with the provision of the Code.
The Nominations Committee have been carefully reviewed in terms of their ability to deliver confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the long-term shareholder value.
This audited 2013 Annual Report Directors offering themselves for reappointment at the 2014 AGM will be made available to shareholders and all results are posted continues to benefit the Board and the Company should support on the Companys website, as are presentations made in respect their reappointment.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed of the full-year results.
initially for three years and all Non-Executive Directors may not, unless agreed by the Board, remain in office for a period longer The Company has undertaken regular investor roadshows in than six years, or two terms in office, whichever is the shorter.
the UK and overseas and presentations were also made after publication of the Preliminary Results in March 2013.
Investor Three of our Non-Executive Directors, John Rennocks, Stephen and analyst conference calls took place after the announcement Davidson and Sir Bryan Carsberg were appointed for the first time of each set of quarterly financial results.
There is an ongoing at the 2006 AGM and therefore reached their six-year term at the programme of dialogue and meetings between the Executive 2012 AGM.
They were reappointed by shareholders at the 2013 Directors and institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
AGM and the Nominations Committee has reaffirmed that it At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues including believes the Directors continue to be independent and, subject strategy, performance, management and governance, are to these Directors being reappointed by the shareholders at the discussed within the constraints of information which has 2014 AGM, they should remain in office thus providing continuity already been made public.
The Board is aware that institutional of experience and knowledge of the business.
Our two new shareholders may be in more regular contact with the Company Non-Executive Directors are being put forward for election at the than other shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that 2014 AGM.
Retired Admiral James Ellis Jnr retired from the Board any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, in March 2014 after almost nine years and will therefore not be institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with seeking re-election at the AGM.
the Financial Conduct Authority requirements.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 47 Corporate Governance continued The Senior Independent Director, John Rennocks, is available to The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review of shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised through the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year the normal channels or if such concerns have not been resolved.
ended 31 December 2013 and for the period up to the date of Arrangements can be made to meet with him through the approval of the consolidated financial statements contained in the Company Secretary.
The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk During 2013, there continued to be ongoing communications management systems.
The Board confirms that the actions it through a combination of face to face meetings, phone calls and considers necessary have been, or are being taken to remedy any email correspondence with many investors regarding remuneration significant failings or weaknesses identified from its review of the issues.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman shared a forward system of internal control.
This has involved considering the vision of the key elements of the remuneration policy with many of matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes that the Companys significant and influential shareholders, as well as it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
The Board also several proxy agencies.
Further information is contained in the confirms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in the covering letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman, in part of the internal control system that relates to financial reporting.
the Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 54 to 70.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and up to the The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, date of this report, include: J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Credit Suisse, on the views of institutional investors on a non-attributed and attributed basis.
Risk management: an overarching risk management policy is in Any concerns of major shareholders would be communicated to place which sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group and the Board by the Executive Directors.
As a matter of routine, the how this is measured across identified macro and business risks.
Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price and As required by the policy, management operates a risk trading activity, and details of movements in institutional investor management process to identify, evaluate and report significant shareholdings.
The Board is also provided with current analyst risks within the business and to report to the Board on how opinions and forecasts.
those risks are being managed.
Risks are highlighted through a number of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, Annual General Meeting monitored by Risk Committees across the Group, which identify Shareholders are welcome at the Companys AGM where they the risk area, the probability of the risk occurring, the impact if it will have an opportunity to meet the Board.
The notice of the does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk to AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the desired level.
All the risk registers are reviewed by senior the meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit and the Remuneration management and provided quarterly to the Board and to the Committees, together with as many Directors as possible, will Audit Committee.
attend the 2014 AGM and be available to answer shareholders Management structure: there is a clearly defined organisational questions.
Voting may be by form of proxy, by poll, by a show of structure throughout the Group with established lines of hands or a combination of all three.
Facilities are provided for reporting and delegation of authority based on job shareholders to vote electronically either through Electronic Proxy Voting or through CREST.
The voting results will be notified responsibilities and experience.
Within the businesses, senior to the UK Listing Authority through a Regulatory Information management meetings occur regularly to allow prompt Service immediately after the meeting and will be published on discussion of relevant business issues.
certification is used where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation to mitigate Internal controls risk in key process areas.
They also confirm annually, in writing, The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and that risk management processes are in place and are operating maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and it receives effectively.
regular reports from management identifying, evaluating and Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide managing the risks within the business.
The system of internal relevant, reliable and up-to-date financial and non-financial controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk information to management and the Board.
Analysis is of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only undertaken of differences between actual results and the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material annual budget on a monthly basis.
Annual plans, forecasts, misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the system performance targets and long range financial plans allow of internal controls through reports received from management, management to monitor the key business and financial along with those from both internal and external auditors.
activities, and the progress towards achieving the financial Management continues to focus on how internal control and risk objectives.
The annual budget is approved by the Board.
The management can be further embedded into the operations of the Group reports half-yearly based on a standardised reporting business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and the Boards attention.
In addition, in line with the Transparency Directive, the Company publishes interim management statements on a The Company has an established Disclosure Committee with quarterly basis.
responsibility for reviewing and approving controls and procedures Information systems: information systems are developed to over the public disclosure of financial and related information support the Groups long-term objectives and are managed and other procedures necessary to enable the Chairman, Chief by professionally staffed teams.
Appropriate policies and Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer to provide their procedures are in place covering all significant areas of certifications in relation to publicly disclosed information.
INMARSAT PLC 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Contractual commitments: there are clearly defined policies Overall summary statement on corporate governance and procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Directors consider that the Company has, These include detailed requirements that must be completed throughout the year, complied with the provisions of the Code prior to submitting proposals and or tenders for work, both in as currently in effect save as noted below.
respect of the commercial, control and risk management aspects of the obligations being entered into.
The Executive Chairman, Andrew Sukawaty, did not meet the Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular independence criteria on appointment.
He was appointed reports from the internal and external auditors and assures itself Chairman in December 2003 and assumed the additional role that the internal control environment of the Group is operating of Chief Executive Officer at the Boards request in March 2004. effectively.
There are formal policies and procedures in place On 1 January 2012, the roles were split and Mr Sukawaty continued to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records as Executive Chairman.
The Board believes that Mr Sukawatys and to safeguard the Groups assets.
Significant capital wide experience means that he remains extremely well qualified projects and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
to lead the Company as its Executive Chairman and ensure that There are formal procedures by which staff can, in confidence, the Board continues to function effectively.
raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and pensions administration and other matters often referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
Arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate follow-up action with the results being reported to the Audit Committee.
Risk management process INMARSAT PLC BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE BUSINESS OPERATIONS Defines the risk governance Reviews the risk management Review the risk management framework, risk culture and principles framework and the effectiveness of framework and the effectiveness of Sets overall risk strategy and policy internal controls, risk management internal controls, risk management Approves risk levels systems and major risk initiatives systems and major risk initiatives Is r esponsible for an effective system Reviews the internal audit pr ogramme across the Group of internal controls and reports Appr oves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities RISK COMMITTEES Review the risk pr ofile against risk appetite and make recommendations to management in relation to risk profile, strategy and key controls Review the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics andpolicies Assess major risk-related projects BUSINESS OPERATIONS Implement mitigation strategies INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 49 Corporate Governance continued Reports of the Board Committees The Audit Committee ensures that the external audit process Report of the Audit Committee and audit quality are effective.
It does this by relying on the All members of the Audit Committee are independent, Nonengagement between the Audit Committee Chairman and the Executive Directors and the majority have significant, recent and lead audit engagement partner which will generally be through relevant financial experience.
The Board is confident that the face to face meetings: on the reports which are brought to the collective experience of the Audit Committee members enables Committee by the lead audit engagement partner and other them, as a group, to act as an effective Committee.
senior members of the audit team: on the quality of the management responses to audit queries: on meetings held by the The table below shows who makes up the Audit Committee and CEO and the Chairman with the lead audit engagement partner their attendance at meetings during 2013: which are reported to the Audit Chairman and Committee: on a review of independence and objectivity of the audit firm and also Audit Percentage the quality of the formal audit report given by the Auditor to Name Committee Attendance shareholders.
Feedback is also sought from members of the John Rennocks Chairman 4 4 100% finance team, the Company Secretary, and the Head of Internal Sir Bryan Carsberg 4 4 100% Audit.
The Committee is considering the use of a formal auditor Stephen Davidson 4 4 100% assessment tool for future review of audit effectiveness.
Janice Obuchowski 4 4 100% During the year to 31 December 2013, the Audit Committee By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be reviewed and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, half-year attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial and full-year financial statements, interim management statements Officer and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Deloitte LLP Deloitte and results announcements.
It considered internal audit reports audit engagement partner is present at all Audit Committee and risk management updates, agreed external and internal audit meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the plans, received updates on management responses to audit audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets regularly with recommendations, and approved the review of accounting both the internal and external auditors.
Reviews by the Committee of audit plans and risk reports include all Group operations.
Detailed risk reporting is used for all The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring Group companies and business operations.
One of our subsidiary the financial reporting process, the adequacy and effectiveness of companies is required to produce quarterly financial statements, as the operation of internal controls and risk management, and the required by its loan agreements, which are reviewed and approved integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review of by the Committee.
The internal audit annual plan is reviewed and significant issues and judgements, policies, and disclosures.
Its approved by the Committee and all reports arising therefrom are duties include keeping under review the scope and results of the reviewed and assessed, along with managements actions to audit and its cost effectiveness, consideration of managements findings and recommendations.
response to any major external or internal audit recommendations and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external Audit Committee meetings generally take place just prior to a auditors.
Company Board meeting to maximise effectiveness and time planning efficiency of those attending.
The Committees Chairman Following publication of the revised version of the Code, which reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda item on the applies to financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the the Board requested that the Committee advise whether it believes Board in the conduct of their work.
All members of the Board have the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced access to Audit Committee papers and minutes of meetings, and and understandable and provides the information necessary for may, on request to the Chairman, attend the meetings.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committees terms of reference have The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee been amended to reflect this and can be found on our website.
the role of which is detailed on page 48, reported on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure of financial and other There is a forward agenda used for the years activities, focused material information to the Board, to the public markets and to around review of the annual financial statements and the results shareholders.
This enabled the Audit Committee to review and of the annual external audit and review of the external auditors clarify the completeness of financial reporting disclosures prior quarterly and interim review work and relevant quarterly and to their release by the Board.
interim financial reporting and the external audit plan: review of risk management reports: review of internal audit plans and findings In assessing the appropriateness of the financial statements, the and recommendations.
Committee concentrated on the following significant audit risks, which were agreed with Deloitte in advance of the audit and were the focus of their audit, and on which the Committee received written reports from management and Deloitte as part of the audit process: INMARSAT PLC 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Audit Committee significant accounting matters Revenue in respect of the LightSquared During 2013, the Audit Committee considered the significant Cooperation Agreement accounting matters described below.
In addressing these issues The Audit Committee has r eviewed the various accounting the Committee considered the appropriateness of managements methods applied for the recognition of revenue and costs in judgements and estimates, and, where appropriate, discussed respect of the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement.
Both the these judgements and estimates with the external auditor.
The percentage of completion and straight-line method have been Committee also reviews quarterly reports by the external auditor used to recognise revenue and costs relating to the different which highlight any issues with respect to the external auditors phases of the Cooperation Agreement: the Audit Committee work undertaken.
has deemed the methods used appropriate.
Goodwill and other impairment tests Provision for uncollectable trade receivables The Gr oup has significant goodwill and other intangible assets.
As a r esult of uncertainties inherent in business activities, the As explained in our accounting policy, intangible assets with Group estimates its required provision for uncollectable trade an indefinite life are reviewed annually for impairment and all receivables at the end of each period.
The Audit Committee is intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever there satisfied that the provision at the end of the year is based on is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
managements latest available information and is therefore appropriate.
The judgements in relation to impairment testing relate to the assumptions used in calculating the value in use of the cashCapitalisation of space segment assets and associated generating units CGUs or assets being tested for impairment.
borrowing costs The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, future performance expectations of the business.
The starting launch costs and other associated costs, including ground point for the determination of the value in use workings is the infrastructure.
In addition, borrowing costs attributable to last Board-approved long-range financial plan, which is qualifying space segment assets are added to the cost of those updated for changes since that date.
Given the nature of the Groups business, significant was also an area of focus for the external auditor, who reported capital expenditure is incurred on space segment assets.
The their findings to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee key judgements involved in the capitalisation of space segment believes the impairment charge recognised for the financial assets and associated borrowings costs are: year to be appropriate.
Whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying Pension arrangements and post-employment IFRSs have been met: benefits assumptions Whether an asset is r eady for use and as a result further The assumptions used in valuing our pension and postcapitalisation of costs should cease and depreciation employment benefit schemes are an area of key judgement.
should commence: and The valuation of all material pension and post-employment Whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete benefit schemes is actuarially determined at year end: the key and as a result capitalisation of borrowing costs should assumptions are reviewed by the Audit Committee and have cease.
The external auditors examined the capitalisation of Income Tax development costs in the year, particularly in relation to the The calculation of the Gr oups potential income tax assets and Alphasat satellite and first Inmarsat-5 Global Xpress satellite liabilities, necessarily involves a degree of estimation and launched in the year and reported their findings to the Audit judgement in respect of certain items, whose tax treatment Committee.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that space cannot be fully determined until resolution has been reached segment assets and associated borrowing costs have been with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a capitalised correctly in the year.
Issues can, and often do, take a number Revenue recognition of years to resolve.
A key ar ea of judgement in respect of revenue recognition, especially in the telecommunications industry is in respect of the A review and discussion of all material income tax assets timing of recognition.
The Groups internal audit team have kept and liabilities involving significant judgement was held with revenue systems, processes and recognition as a key focus area management, this included the status of any ongoing tax during the year and the external auditor performed detailed discussions with relevant tax authorities and external advisors.
audit procedures on revenue recognition, with the findings of Income tax was also an area of focus for the external auditor, both being reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit who reported their findings to the Audit Committee.
Following Committee have therefore concluded that the Groups revenue review of this information, the Audit Committee deemed the recognition policies continue to be in line with IFRS requirements.
income tax assets and liabilities balances for the year, as well as the Groups contingent liability disclosure in respect of income taxes, to be appropriate.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51 Corporate Governance continued External Auditor It is the Companys practice that it will seek quotes from several The Committee notes that FTSE 350 companies should put the firms, which may include Deloitte, before work on non-audit external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Contracts are awarded to our suppliers avoid significant disruption, the Financial Reporting Council has based on individual merits.
The Committee and the Companys provided details of transitional arrangements which would mean management are aware that the level of fees paid to Deloitte that as Deloitte became auditors after 2000, we would not need for non-audit services compared to audit services has been to undertake a tender review until 2020.
Auditor objectivity and significantly higher over the last few years.
The increase is due independence is safeguarded through a variety of mechanisms.
to work undertaken regarding specialist tax advice on certain To ensure the external auditors independence, the Committee transactions.
The Committee does not believe that asking Deloitte annually reviews the Companys relationship with Deloitte and to undertake this work is an issue for the Company as it is satisfied receives summaries at each Audit Committee meeting from them with the quality of work and advice provided and, importantly, it as to their independence.
The Committee concluded that it believes the independence of the auditor is not at risk.
Additionally, continues to have an objective and professional relationship with where non-audit work is undertaken management will have Deloitte and that there are sufficient controls and processes in negotiated competitive rates for each piece of work.
place to ensure the required level of independence.
The external We receive advice from other firms for specific projects and other auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for long term projects.
We used PwC to undertake due diligence for the Group audit every five years.
The current audit partner was us on a recent acquisition, as well as a review of operating our appointed in 2011.
For the year ending 31 December 2014, the business in South America.
EY continue to be used on specific Committee has provided to the Board its recommendation to the overseas tax work.
KPMG also continue to be our advisers on shareholders on the reappointment of Deloitte as the Groups some specific ongoing discussions with HMRC.
During the year, Deloitte charged the Group US$1.6m different firms to support us on VAT and ad hoc PAYE issues.
2012: US$1.4m for audit and audit-related services.
During the year, Deloitte charged the Group US$1.3m Non-audit services 2012: US$1.7m for non-audit related services.
The Companys external auditor may also be used to provide specialist advice where, as a result of their position as auditor, they Taxation either must, or are best placed to, perform the work in question.
Provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level of A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision of non-audit deferred tax asset recognition in relation to accumulated tax losses services by the external auditor to ensure that there is adequate are underpinned by a range of judgements.
The Committee protection of their independence and objectivity.
addresses these issues through a range of reporting from senior management and a process of challenging the appropriateness Fees charged by Deloitte in respect of non-audit services require of managements views including the degree to which these the prior approval of the Audit Committee, except where the fee are supported by professional advice from external legal and does not exceed more than 5% of the total audit fees paid to the other advisory firms.
This is also an area of higher audit risk and auditor in that financial year.
The Audit Committee has agreed that accordingly the Committee received detailed verbal and written the Company could commit to fees in relation to tax advisory and reporting from Deloitte on these matters.
tax compliance work from the external auditor, in aggregate, of up to 20% of the total audit fee each year, with up to 50,000 for any one project, without the need to seek approval for individual projects.
A breakdown of the fees paid to Deloitte during the year is set out in note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
INMARSAT PLC 52 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Report of the Nominations Committee Following the announcement in September 2013 of Mr Medlocks The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of independent, resignation from the business, Russell Reynolds Associates was Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee meets as engaged.
The process for the selection of a new Chief Financial and when necessary, generally at least once a year, and during the Officer was led by the CEO, reporting to the Chairman of the year was represented by Andrew Sukawaty, its Chairman, Admiral Committee.
A detailed brief of the desired candidate profile James Ellis Jnr Rtd, Stephen Davidson and John Rennocks.
based on merit and against objective criteria was produced Dr Abe Peled joined the Committee in June 2013.
During 2013 against which Russell Reynolds Associates conducted a search.
the Committee met five times.
A long list of potential candidates was reduced to a shortlisted number.
The final selected candidate met the CEO, Chairman, The table below shows the make up of the Nominations Chairman of the Audit Committee, Senior Vice President Committee and their attendance at meetings during 2013: Corporate Development and the Company Secretary.
All board members were given an opportunity to meet him before Nominations Percentage appointment.
In February 2014, the Company announced that Name Committee Attendance Mr Bates will join the company on 2 June 2014 as its new CFO Andrew Sukawaty Chairman 5 5 100% and as an Executive Director.
Stephen Davidson 5 5 100% Admiral James Ellis Jnr Rtd 4 5 80% In considering the skills required for new Non-Executive Directors, there was specific focus on seeking individuals who had experience Abe Peled 2 2 100% in technology and software related industries, which strong John Rennocks 4 5 80% operational experience.
As part of the recruitment process, the individuals generally met the Chairman of the Board, the CEO, The Committee has responsibility for nominating candidates for the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and the appointment as Directors to the Board, bearing in mind the need Company Secretary.
Other members of the Board were also given for diversity including gender consideration, and a broad the opportunity to meet them.
representation of skills across the Board.
All currently appointed Directors will retire at the 2014 AGM The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to and offer themselves for reappointment, or offer themselves for the Board concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive appointment as appropriate.
The Committee further agreed that Director as he or she reaches their sixth year of reappointment and it was appropriate that although some Directors had exceeded separately with a view to assessing their continuing independence their six-year term of office, they remain independent in their when they reach their ninth year of service.
The Committee also contribution, and should be invited to serve for a longer period.
considers the annual election and re-election of any Director by shareholders and changes to senior management, including The Committee, when reviewing succession planning, considers Executive Directors.
diversity in its broadest sense and takes this into account in its recommendations to the Board.
Gender is one element of the Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective considerations made in appointing senior management and Board criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the members and as part of general recruitment practices across the Board.
This process is led by the Committee which, after evaluating Group.
The Committee gives full consideration to succession the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director, planning in the course of its work and last reviewed management makes recommendations to the Board.
It takes into account the challenges In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Boards practice is and opportunities facing the Company: diversity, including gender: to use a combination of external recruitment consultants and and what skills and expertise are needed on the Board and from personal referrals.
The two new Non-Executive Directors who were senior management in the future.
appointed in June 2013 both came via a personal recommendation from a Director or a recommendation made to a Director.
For the replacement of the Chief Financial Officer position, the Company engaged Russell Reynolds Associates.
Russell Reynolds Associates has no other connection with the Company.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53
