Executive Committee biographies In addition to the Executive Directors, the Executive Committeecomprises: Eric Pearson Keith Barr Executive Vice President Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Information Officer Appointed to the Executive Committee: Appointed to the Executive Committee: April 2011 Joined the Group: 2000 February 2012 Joined the Group: 1997 Skills and experience: Keith has over 20years experience in the hospitality Skills and experience: Eric has a background in engineering and industry.
He has held senior appointments including Vice President of Sales technology and started his career at IHG over 17 years ago.
Since then and Revenue Management, Vice President of Operations, Chief Operating he has held various senior positions in the field of emerging technologies Officer, Australia, New Zealand and South Pacific, andManaging Director, and global e-commerce.
Eric most recently held the position of Greater China.
Hebecame an Executive Committee member in April 2011 Chief Marketing Officer for TheAmericas region.
and was previously Chief Executive, Greater China until May 2013.
Keithis Key responsibilities: These include global technology, including IT currently a member of Leland C. andMary M. Pillsbury Institute for systems and information management, throughout the Group.
Key responsibilities: These include global sales, marketing and brand functions, to drive consistent brand strategies across all regions and leverage IHGs scale andsystems to deliver continued industry outperformance.
Jan Smits Angela Brav Chief Executive, Asia, Chief Executive, Europe Middle East andAfrica Appointed to the Executive Committee: Appointed to the Executive Committee: August 2011 Joined the Group: 1988 August 2011 Joined the Group: 2002 Skills and experience: Angela has over 25 years experience in the Skills and experience: Jan has 32 years experience in the hospitality hospitality industry, including hotel operations, franchise relations and industry.
He held various senior positions in the Asia and Australasia technology solutions.
She has held various senior roles in IHGs North region.
He became Managing Director, Asia Australasia in June 2009.
American and European regions prior to becoming Chief Operating Officer, Following the amalgamation of our Middle East and Africa region North America.
She was appointed Chief Executive, Europe in August 2011. with our Asia Australasia region, he became Chief Executive, Asia, Middle East and Africa in August 2011.
Key responsibilities: These include business development and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in Europe.
Key responsibilities: These include business development and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in Asia, Middle East andAfrica.
George Turner Kenneth Macpherson Executive Vice President, General Chief Executive, Greater China Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed to the Executive Committee: Appointed to the Executive Committee: April 2013 Joined the Group: 2013 January 2009 Joined the Group: 2008 Skills and experience: Kenneth joined IHG asChief Executive, Greater Skills and experience: George is a solicitor and qualified to private China in April 2013.
Prior to joining the Group, he worked for Diageo plc, practice in 1995.
Prior to joining the Group, George spent 12 years one of the UKs leading branded companies, for over 19 years and has held with Imperial Chemical Industries where he held a number of senior management positions including serving as Executive Managing key positions including Deputy Company Secretary.
He was appointed Director of Diageo Greater China.
Kenneth has extensive management Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary experience, with a background in sales, marketing strategy, business in January 2009. development, and operations.
Kenneth also brings substantial knowledge Key responsibilities: These include corporate governance, and expertise in Chinese and international business operations.
risk management, insurance, regulatory, internal audit, legal, Key responsibilities: These include business development and corporate responsibility, public affairs and standards.
performance of all the hotelbrands and properties in the Greater Chinaregion.
There are no family relationships between anyof the Board or Executive Committee members set out on pages 57 to 60.
There are no arrangements or understandings with major shareholders, customers, suppliers or others, pursuant to which any ofthe Board or Executive Committee set out on pages 57 to 60 were selected as a Director or member of the Executive Committee.
60 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
