GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate Governance Leadership Chief Executive Officer Richard Solomons Leading the development of the Companys strategic direction Board and implementing the agreed strategy: Board membership communicating effectively with shareholders and stakeholders: During the year, Jill McDonald 1 June 2013 and Ian Dyson overseeing business operations and managing risks: and 1September 2013 were appointed to the Board as building and leading an effective Executive Committee and independent Non-Executive Directors.
On 1 January 2014, management of the Groups business.
Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer following Tom Singers resignation.
Richard Solomons is assisted in meeting his responsibilities by , Chief Financial Officer, and the In 2014, David Kappler will retire from the Board 31 May 2014, Ian ExecutiveCommittee who head up the Groupsprincipal Dyson will become Audit Committee Chairman 1 April 2014 and Dale operations and functions.
Morrison will become the Senior Independent Director 31 May 2014.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director David Kappler Biographical details of each member of the Board, including their Being available to liaise with shareholders who have external commitments, can be found on pages 57 to 59. concernsthat they feel have not been addressed through thenormal channels: Board and Committee structure conducting the annual performance review of the Chairman: and The Board has delegated authority to four committees: providing advice and judgement for the Chairman as necessary.
Audit Committee: Independent Non-Executive Directors Corporate Responsibility Committee: Providing a strong source of advice and judgement: Nomination Committee: and constructively challenging and helping develop proposals Remuneration Committee.
on strategy:and See pages 66 to 69 and 74 to 97 for the Committee Reports.
providing significant external commercial experience and There are also three management committees, which together a broadrange of skills for the Board to draw on.
provide a sound governance framework, see page 65.
Company Secretary George Turner Key responsibilities Ensuring a good flow of information to the Board and its Board Committees and between the Executive Committee and the Leading the strategic direction and long-term objectives and Non-Executive Directors: success of the Group, approving strategic plans, and capital facilitating all Director inductions: and and revenuebudgets: advising the Board on corporate governance and keeping reviewing significant investment proposals: theBoard up-to-date on all legal, regulatory and maintaining an overview and control of the Groups operating otherdevelopments.
and financial performance: monitoring the Groups overall system of internal controls andrisk management, governance and compliance, Board composition  changes and developments: and One Non-Executive ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources Chairman 8% are inplace for the Group to meet its objectives.
Four Executive Directors 31% The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for it, which are available on the website at www.
com investors under Eight independent Non-Executive Directors 61% corporate governance.
Service contracts and letters of appointment set out in writing the roles of each of the Directors including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer see below.
The Boards current composition meets the requirement of Chairman Patrick Cescau the Codefor at least half the Board, excluding Patrick Cescau, Leading the operation and governance of the Board and its to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman was Committees as well as building and maintaining an effective Board: independent on appointment to the Board.
overseeing corporate governance matters and ensuring they In the Boards view, all of the current Non-Executive Directors are areaddressed: independent including David Kappler who has served as a Director for leading the performance evaluations of the Chief Executive over 9 years and who will be retiring from the Board on 31 May 2014.
Officer, Non-Executive Directors and the Board: Notwithstanding Davids length of tenure, the Board is satisfied ensuring Directors receive timely, accurate and clear that David Kappler continues to demonstrate independence in information on Company business and that all Directors character and judgement and that it remains appropriate to regard arefully informed of relevant matters: and him as independent under provision B.
David communicating effectively with shareholders and stakeholders.
therefore continues to serve on the Board as Senior Independent Patrick Cescau, in conjunction with Richard Solomons and George Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman.
Turner, ensure that Directors receive a full, formal and tailored At each AGM all Directors stand for re-election.
induction to the Group and ongoing training as relevant.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly established and separate.
Governance 61 Corporate Governance continued Length of Non-Executive Director tenure Board diversity policy The current Non-Executive Directors lengths of tenure as Our Board diversity policy, introduced in 2013, aims to ensure that at 31December 2013 are illustrated below: diversity in its broadest sense remains a key priority of the Board.
Our objectives are as follows: whilst all appointments are made on merit, we seek to ensure that the Board maintains an appropriate balance through a diverse mix of experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge 7-10 years tenure 0-3 years tenure 38% 3 50% 4 and insight, to further strengthen the diversity of gender and experience already on the Board and improve it further: we commit to having diverse and inclusive leadership which supports all colleagues in reaching their full potential, including 4-6 years tenure the development of a pipeline of high-calibre candidates from 12% 1 within the business: we will maintain a level of at least 25% female directors on Board balance of skills and experience the Board over the short to medium-term: and Collectively, the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, we will report annually against these objectives and other experience, independence, knowledge and diversity to enable initiatives taking place in the Group which promote gender it todischarge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
and other forms of diversity.
Below is a chart showing the Boards balance of skills and We are currently in compliance with all of the above objectives.
experience: We firmly believe in the importance of a diverse Board membership and fully support the UK Lord Davies Report on Women on Boards.
Currently, the Board includes four women 31% and four nationalities.
International Branded industry Our current Board gender and nationality split is illustrated below: 25% 29% Marketing and sales 7% Board gender Finance Consumer Female 14% 25% 31% 4 Male Diversity and inclusion 69% 9 With a presence in nearly 100 countries and territories globally, webelieve that our leadership should reflect the diversity of our employees, our guests and the local communities in which we operate.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity throughout Board nationalities our global business.
French We continue to focus on providing an inclusive environment, 8% 1 in which employees are valued for who they are and what they Chinese bring to the Group, and in which talented individuals are retained 8% 1 through all levels of the organisation.
Further details on our commitment to diversity and inclusion throughout British American the business together with statistics are set out on page 23.
61% 8 23% 3 62 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Board meetings Key issues discussed in 2013 meetings The Board meets eight times each year with additional meetings At each meeting the Board has the following standing items on scheduled as necessary.
One of the meetings is a two-day strategy the agenda: Chairmans matters, Chief Executive Officers matters, meeting, in which the Board considers the Groups strategy and finance updates from the Chief Financial Officer, business related issues.
Thisprovides an opportunity for the business to updates from various members of the Executive Committee, have a wide-ranging dialogue with the Board and for the Board risk management, secretariat updates including corporate to meet many of our senior management and gain a deeper governance, media and investor relations updates and conflicts understanding of different markets.
In 2013, the Chairman and of interest review.
the Non-Executive Directors met without Executive Directors being Key areas of focus for the Board in 2013 included: present, and intend to continue this practise, before every Board meeting if possible.
Business Commercial, geographic, technological, strategy human resources Patrick Cescau, in conjunction with George Turner, plans the Chief Financial Officers report, agenda for each Board meeting.
This is a two tier process, Business 2013 budget, 2012 full-year results, 2013 half-year combining our annual agenda of regular items, which ensures performance results and interim management statements all critical topics and strategic updates are covered, with a detailed schedule of areas for presentation at Board meetings.
Board performance evaluation, committee updates Corporate governance and reports, legal and regulatory compliance updates Directors are briefed on the Groups financial performance and its operations, key commercial matters and progress against Responsible Operational and strategic risk, safety and business security, reputation key strategic plans and relations with investors, by means of comprehensive papers in advance of, and presentations at, Corporate IHGs three core programmes: IHG Green Engage, Board meetings.
responsibility IHG Academy and IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme The Board also receives more in-depth presentations on a wide Investor Analyst reports, investor perceptions relations range of business issues in a more informal context the evening before formal Board meetings.
Evening presentation topics during Independent advice 2013 included: All Directors have access to the advice and services of George the IHG corporate brand and the loyalty programme relaunch Turner, the Company Secretary, the Companys external legal IHG Rewards Club: advisers and the external Auditor, who is currently Ernst & Young the IHG Owners Association: LLP.
There is an agreed process by which Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the technology trends: and furtherance of their duties.
Conflicts of interest and independence Should any Director be unable to attend a meeting, he or she would The Board reviews potential conflicts of interest and independence be provided with all the papers and information relevant to that as a standing agenda item at each Board meeting with a review meeting in advance and be able to discuss matters arising with conducted annually.
As authorised by the Articles, the Board Patrick Cescau and Richard Solomons.
considers and approves all potential conflicts of interest as it deems Board annual strategy meeting appropriate.
Directors have continuing obligations to update the During 2013, the Board held its two-day strategy meeting in Board on any changes to these conflicts or their independence.
Washington D. C. US, which enabled the Board to look in depth Directors and officers liability D&O insurance at the long-term strategic direction of the Group, understand The Company maintains D&O insurance which covers Directors progress against key strategic priorities and confirm those areas andofficers of the Company against defending civil proceedings which require ongoing Board oversight.
The discussion topics brought against them in their capacity as a Director or officer of included: major trends in the industry, new business development theCompany.
There were no indemnity provisions relating to the opportunities, and an overview of the medium to long-term UK pension plan for the benefit of the Directors during 2013. financial impacts of our strategic choices.
There was also an opportunity to visit a cross-section of competitor hotels.
Governance 63 Corporate Governance continued Effectiveness The Board believes that, in order to be most effective, it must have a mix of skills and experience, background and length of service.
Further details can be found on page 62.
The structure, size and composition of the Board and succession planning is continuously monitored by Patrick Cescau and the Nomination Committee.
Further details can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 69.
A summary of each Directors attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal Committees during 2013 is shown below.
Unless otherwise indicated, all Directors held office throughout the year: Committees Committee Corporate A C N R Directors appointments Board Audit Responsibility Nomination Remuneration Chairman 4 N Patrick Cescau 8 8 n a n a 5 5 n a Chief Executive Officer C Richard Solomons 8 8 n a 3 3 n a n a Executive Directors Kirk Kinsell n a 8 8 n a n a n a n a Tracy Robbins n a 8 8 n a n a n a n a 1 Tom Singer n a 7 7 n a n a n a n a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 4 5 5 A N R David Kappler 7 8 5 5 n a 5 5 5 6 Independent Non-Executive Directors 2 A N R Ian Dyson 3 3 2 2 n a 1 1 3 3 4 A C N Jennifer Laing 8 8 5 5 3 3 5 5 n a N R Jonathan Linen 8 8 n a n a 5 5 6 6 4 C N R Luke Mayhew 8 8 n a 3 3 5 5 6 6 3 3 3 A N Jill McDonald 4 5 3 3 n a 2 3 n a A C N Dale Morrison 8 8 5 5 3 3 5 5 n a C N R Ying Yeh 8 8 n a 3 3 5 5 6 6 Total meetings held 8 5 3 5 6 1 Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson was appointed as a Director on 1 January 2014 and Tom Singer resigned.
2 Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 1 September 2013.
3 Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit and Nomination Committees on 1 June 2013.
Jill McDonald missed one Board meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting which were held on the same day due to a prior commitment known to the Board in advance.
4 Chairman of the relevant Committee.
5 David Kappler missed one Board meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting which were held on the same day due to a prior commitment known to the Board in advance.
Annual re-election of Directors visits to our global corporate offices and hotels to provide a greater insight into the business.
All Directors retire at each AGM and are subject to shareholder On appointment, Directors are advised of, and requested to, re-election in line with the Code recommendations.
Details of make the necessary time commitment required to discharge Directors service contracts and appointment terms are set out their responsibilities effectively.
Patrick Cescau reviews the on pages 85 and 86. time each Non-Executive Director has dedicated to the Company, Director induction, training and development as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
Director induction Ongoing Director training and development There is a tailored induction programme for all Director appointments The updating of all Directors skills and knowledge, ongoing which is designed to meet their individual needs and accords training and development and understanding of the Groups with best practice.
Induction programmes were developed for business and operations is a progressive exercise.
Jill McDonald and Ian Dyson, and Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson has also During 2013, the Directors received briefings on a number of received an appropriate induction to his role as Chief Financial Officer.
legal and regulatory developments, including updates on director All Directors are encouraged to request further information as they remuneration legislation, regulatory changes to annual consider necessary to fulfil their role.
reporting and various ABI and PIRC corporate governance Key aspects of the induction are as follows: guidelines.
Patrick Cescau regularly reviews and agrees training and development needs with each Director.
In addition, George familiarisation with the Group, including areas such as the Board Turner regularly makes the Board aware of training opportunities structure and its Committees, Group structure, principal activities and additional information to enable them to keep up-to-date and strategy and its approach torisk and risk management: and enhance their knowledge of the business.
meetings with both senior executives and regional and central management from various functions across the Group, including Board performance evaluation Business Reputation and Responsibility, Human Resources, IHG has always recognised the importance of evaluating the Corporate Affairs, Global Strategy and Corporate Development, performance of the Board, its main Committees and its Directors Global Internal Audit and Financial Planning and Analysis: and in line with the Code recommendations.
64 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2013 Board performance evaluation Process Boardroom Review, an independent external facilitator with no other connection to IHG, carried out the 2013 Board performance evaluation.
This included confidential interviews with each Director to gain an understanding of our Boards performance and consider its effectiveness.
Results The results of the review were presented for discussion at the Board meeting in February 2014 and confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees continue to operate effectively, the composition of the Board is strong and that each Director brings relevant knowledge, diversity of perspective, an ability and willingness to challenge and retains a strong commitment to the role.
Further strengths included the Board culture, use of time, increasingly strategic debate and the control and risk framework oversight at Board level.
2013 and 2012 external Board performance evaluation outcomes and action plan 2013 2012 Observations Action taken to be taken Observations Action taken Increase the Boards Ensure the Board is regularly updated on Deepen the Boards Retained focus on strategy with particular oversight of new developments focus on the attention on the external environment technology Groupsstrategy Enhance the Boards Provide the Board with more time to consider Ensure the smooth A tailored induction was completed with use of time and gain a industry and consumer trends, further integration of the new ongoing support deeper understanding information on the competition and regular Chairman of priorities and risks updates on major projects Consider future Board Schedule regular Nomination Committee Continue to improve Senior management reviewed the optimum level composition and meetings the meeting process, ofdetail in presentations andpapers succession including refining Prioritise the search for a Non-Executive senior management More frequent sessions held with the Chief Director with experience in consumer facing presentations and Executive Officer and Non-Executive Directors technology papers to the Board Provided the Board annual agenda of regular Continually refresh the Board skills inventory items to the Directors Conducted deep dives into regions, functions and current issues Balanced the time for presentations and discussion Consider growth Continued to review growth opportunities opportunities for for the Group theGroup Individual Director internal performance evaluations Governance: The Committee is chaired by Richard Solomons and usually meets monthly.
Members of this Committee comprise the The internal performance evaluations of members of the Board Executive Directors and the most senior executives from the Group are carried out by the following individuals: see page 60.
The Committee recommends to the Board Director being appraised Appraiser significant decisions which require its approval.
Reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors Chairman Disclosure Committee excluding the Chairman and facilitated by the The Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring that there Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are procedures in place so that information required to be Chief Executive Officer Chairman and all Non-Executive Directors meet to discuss performance disclosed in reports pursuant to UK and US accounting, statutory or listing requirements, fairly represent the Groups position in all Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer materialrespects.
Non-Executive Directors Chairman Governance: The Committee is chaired by the Groups Financial Board committees Controller.
Members of this Committee comprise of George Turner For the Boards four Committee Reports, see pages 66 to 69 and 74 to 97. andother senior officers.
The Committee reports to Richard Solomons, Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson and the Audit Committee.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which are approved by the Board and subject to review each year.
Amendments to the General Purposes Committee terms of reference were made and approved for the Nomination, The Committee attends to business of a routine nature and to Remuneration and Audit Committees.
the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate committee.
Management committees Governance: The Committee comprises any one Executive Details of our management committees are set out below and Committee member together with a senior officer from an their terms of reference can be found on the Companys website agreed and restricted list.
It is always chaired by an Executive at www.
com investors under corporate governance Committee member and Patrick Cescau and Executive Directors committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
are notified in advance of the business of the meeting.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee considers and manages a range of strategic and business issues facing the Group.
It monitors the performance of the business and is authorised to approve capital and revenue investment within levels agreed by the Board.
