Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report At each Committee meeting the internal and external Auditors meet without the presence of management.
Atthe invitation of the Committee, the Chairman Patrick Cescau, the Chief Executive Officer, ChiefFinancial Officer, Head of GIA, Group Financial Controller andexternal Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, attend meetings.
EY attended each meeting in 2013 and provided a report on key activities.
PwC, who provide co-assurance for global technology projects andprocesses, also present key findings at every meeting.
Otherattendees are invited to meetings as appropriate, to provide adeeperinsight into, and understanding of, key decisions.
Key issues discussed in 2013 meetings Committee membership The Committee discussed, amongst others, the following matters: Date Key issues discussed David Kappler Chairman 14 February Appraised EY and recommended their Members re-appointment Ian Dyson, Jennifer Laing, Jill McDonald, Dale Morrison Examined an analysis of EYs audit and non-audit fees and assessed that fees incurred to date were in accordance with IHGs Audit and Non-Audit For full biographies see pages 57 to 59.
Services Pre-Approval Policy Evaluated the 2013 Group Major Risk Review and Global Risk Management Report 2012 Dear Shareholder Assessed the annual SOX review concluding that no material weaknesses had been found in the Roles and responsibilities internal control environment.
One significant The Audit Committees responsibilities fall in to five areas: deficiency was discussed and noted i internal controls and risk management: ii financial reporting: Considered recommendations on the preliminary iii internal audit: iv external audit and compliance: announcement of the annual results, Annual and v whistleblowing and fraud.
Report and Review 2012 to the Board Considered EYs Audit Results Report and made Terms of reference ToR enquiries on key auditing and accounting items and control observations arising from the 2013 audit The Committees main role and responsibilities are set out in its ToR which have been drafted to be fully compliant with the Code 2 May Received an update on the 2013 GIA strategy provisions.
A copy of the ToR can be found on the Companys following external review Considered and made recommendations on website at www.
com investors under corporate governance the first quarter interim management statement committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
to the Board Discussed the principal areas of change for the Governance 2013 SOX compliance review The Committee was in place throughout 2013 and all Committee Considered the regulations proposing audit tender members remained independent, as determined annually by the and rotation, and agreed to conduct a full review of Board.
During the year, Ian Dyson and Jill McDonald joined the audit services in 2015 Committee.
Each member has been appointed as they have Received an update on treasury activities including the Groups funding strategy, credit rating strategy, theexperience and expertise necessary to meet the the maturity and profile of the Groups facilities .
and the cashflow positions The Board is satisfied that David Kappler continues to remain 1 August Received an update on the new accounting independent.
Having served on the Board since June 2004, standards which were effective from 1 January 2013 Considered and recommended the Half-Year he will step down as Audit Committee Chairman on 1 April 2014 Results to the Board and Ian Dyson will be appointed Chairman of the Committee.
Approved the EY 2013 Audit Planning Report Received an update on PwCs approach to The Code requires the Committee to have at least one member with technology assurance, agreed a number of recent and relevant financial experience and the US Sarbanes-Oxley technology audits on information security and Act SOX necessitates a designated financial expert.
The Board is requested an update on the same at each meeting satisfied that David Kappler and Ian Dyson meet the requirements of Considered and made enquiries of EY on key the Code and are financial experts David is a qualified accountant matters arising from their interim review on the Groups Half-Year Results and former Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc and Ian is also a qualified accountant and former Group Finance and 31 October Received an overview of the System Fund Operations Director at Marks & Spencer Group plc.
accounting and IHG Rewards Club points liability Considered and recommended the third quarter Committee meetings interim management statement to the Board Received the annual update on the Groups tax In 2013, the Committee met five times and the following regular position, strategy and focus areas papers were received: an analysis of the audit and non-audit fees: anupdate on items discussed by the Disclosure Committee: 9 December Discussed the 2014 Major Risks review Considered the GIA 2014 Audit Plan and agreed an update on material litigation: a report on significant incidents to undertake an effectiveness review of GIA of fraud and whistleblowing: a report on risk management: an Completed the Audit and Non-Audit Services update on SOX compliance: a report from the external Auditor: Pre-Approval Policy annual review and proposed and a quarterly report on Global Internal Audit GIA activities.
no changes Reviewed and made enquiries of EY on the key findings in their Audit Update Report 66 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Significant matters in the 2013 Financial Statements Non-audit services In respect of significant matters relating to the 2013 Financial EY provide non-audit services to the Group which are governed, Statements the Committee: tosafeguard their objectivity and independence by IHGs Audit and Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy.
The Policy is discussed with management the processes followed to estimate re-approved by the Audit Committee annually in December.
the liability for the Groups loyalty programme and asked for For the 2013 financial year the policy was updated and approved clarification on the actuarial review undertaken by the third-party at the Audit Committee meeting on 12 December 2012.
The policy actuary and the key elements of the calculation of the estimated requires that pre-approval is obtained from the Audit Committee cost of point redemption.
This is also an area of audit focus and for all services before any work can be commenced, in line with the Committee considered with EY their reporting on this liability: US Securities and Exchange Commission requirements.
Under reviewed with management the assumptions and calculations this policy, the Committee is prohibited from delegating non-audit supporting the major exceptional items in the year.
In particular, services approval to management.
Compliance with the policy is the key elements of the charge arising on the UK Defined actively managed and, as such, an analysis of audit and non-audit Benefit Pension Plan buy-in were discussed and the actuarial services are reviewed by the Committee at each meeting.
With regard to this item, the Committee also The Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, investor body considered EYs views on the disclosures and approach adopted: guidelines on non-audit fees.
During 2013, 12% of services reviewed the detailed report from management supporting the provided to the Group were non-audit services: these included conclusion that no impairment charges were required against areas such as advisory work and corporate tax compliance.
the carrying value of hotel assets, goodwill or other intangible assets.
In particular, the key judgements underlying hotel For fees paid to EY for non-audit work during 2013 see page 123. valuations were discussed and the short and longer-term growth assumptions underlying certain intangible valuations Internal control and risk management were challenged.
EYs views on the valuations performed by The Committee monitors internal controls and risk management, management were also considered: and on behalf of the Board, through quarterly reports from both the Head of GIA and from EY.
Additionally, the Committee receives discussed the key judgements surrounding deferred tax frequent risk management reports on relevant issues and recognition with the Head of Group Tax and the Chief Financial developments from the Head of Risk Management and other Officer.
In particular, the assumptions regarding the recognition management.
The Committee Chairman updates the Board on of future profits across the Group were discussed and clarified the quality and effectiveness of internal controls across the Group with management.
This is also an area where the Committee through regular Board presentations.
Fraud and whistleblowing received and discussed detailed reporting from EY.
reports are collated from information provided by the Group's A separate sub-committee meeting was held in February 2014 with independent external provider, who facilitates the Groups helpline management and EY to consider the Annual Report and Form 20-F phone number for employees with whistleblowing and fraud 2013.
The report was reviewed as a whole, to consider whether it concerns, and fraud data from Global Risk Management and provided a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Group are presented to the Committee biannually.
The Committee with the necessary information for shareholders to assess the would be advised immediately of a significant matter, to ensure Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Audit a proportionate and independent investigation was performed.
Committee members provided comments on the draft report Internal audit which were then incorporated into the final version.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the External Auditor activities of the GIA department and does this by way of an annual EY have been the Groups Auditor since it listed in 2003 10 years.
The results of the review are analysed and discussed at While an audit tender has not been carried out since EYs initial the Committee's meeting in May.
appointment, the Committee considers the appointment of its Auditor Effectiveness of the Committee annually, and in May 2013 made a recommendation to the Board that Committee effectiveness is dependent on its overall efficiency a full review of the audit provision should be carried out in 2015 as well as the efficacy of EY and GIA.
The effectiveness of the subject to UK and EU legislation.
To ensure EYs independence is Committee, EY and GIA is monitored and assessed annually safeguarded, lead audit partners rotate every five years.
The current through evaluation questionnaires.
lead audit partner has been in place for three years.
An evaluation of EY takes place annually where questionnaires on EYs services are Further details of the evaluation process can be found on page 65. completed by over 30 senior IHG finance employees.
Key priorities for the Committee in 2014 The Committee reviews the independence and effectiveness During 2014, I will ensure a smooth transition to Ian Dyson of EY on an ongoing basis and receives reports from them and the Committee intends to remain focused on the key areas on their independence annually.
As well as Company policies of responsibility delegated to it by the Board, ensuring that and procedures, which aim to safeguard EYs independence standards of good governance are maintained across all areas and effectiveness, EY also have their own protective policies of the business, with a particular focus on the integrity of the and systems in place, which are explained in a Transparency internal financial controls and risk management systems.
Report issued by EY on an annual basis.
David Kappler, Chairman of the Audit Committee For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Committee was 17 February 2014 satisfied with the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the relationship with EY as the external Auditor.
