GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Board of Directors biographies Patrick Cescau Richard Solomons N C Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013 Appointed to the Board: 10 February 2003 Skills and experience: From 2005 to 2008, Patrick was Group Chief Skills and experience: During his tenure as Chief Executive Officer, Executive of Unilever Group, having previously been Chairman of Richard has led the continued growth of IHG, including the launch of Unilever PLC, Vice-Chairman of Unilever NV and Foods Director, our two newest brands, HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts and EVEN Hotels.
following a progressive career with the Company, which began in He has also overseen the recent relaunch of IHGs loyalty programme France in 1973.
Prior to being appointed to theBoard of Unilever PLC as IHG Rewards Club.
Before being appointed Chief Executive Officer, and Unilever NV in 1999, as Finance Director, he was Chairman of a Richard served as Chief Financial Officer and Head of Commercial number of the Companys major operating companies and divisions, Development at IHG.
Richard was integral in shaping and implementing including in the US, Indonesia andPortugal.
IHGs asset-light strategy, which has helped the business grow significantly since it was formed in 2003 as well as supporting the Board contribution: Patrick has held Board positions for more return of over 9 billion to shareholders.
In 2008, he also served as than 13 years in leading global businesses and brings extensive Interim President of our Americas business.
international experience in brands, consumer products, as well as finance.
As Chairman, Patrick is responsible for leading the Board Board contribution: Richard is responsible for the executive and ensuring it operates in an effective manner and promoting management of the Group and ensuring the implementation of constructive relationswith shareholders.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of International Consolidated Airlines Group S. A. and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Tesco PLC.
Patrick is also a trustee of The Leverhulme Trust and Chairman of the St Jude India Kirk Kinsell Childrens Charity.
He was formerly a Senior Independent Director President, The Americas and Non-Executive Director of Pearson PLC and a Director at INSEAD.
Appointed to the Board: 1 August 2010 Skills and experience: Kirk has 30 years experience in the hospitality industry, including senior franchise positions with Holiday Inn Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson Corporation and ITT Sheraton.
Hejoined the Group in 2002 as Chief Financial Officer Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer for The Americas Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2014 region.
He became an Executive Committee member in September 2007 and was previously President, Europe, Middle East and Africa until June 2011.
Skills and experience: Paul is a chartered accountant and a fellow Board contribution: Kirk has vast experience in the hospitality industry of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
He was previously Chief and is responsible for the business development and performance of Financial Officer of IHGs Europe and Asia, Middle East & Africa all the hotel brands and properties in The Americas region.
regions, a position he held since September 2011.
He joined IHG in August 2004 and has held a number of senior level finance positions Tracy Robbins including Head of Investor Relations, Head of Global Corporate Finance Executive Vice President, and Financial Planning & Tax and Head of Hotel Development, Europe.
HumanResources and Group Paul also acted as Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Europe, Middle OperationsSupport East and Africa regions.
Appointed to the Board: 9 August 2011 Board contribution: Paul is responsible, together with the Board, for overseeing the financial operations of the Group and setting its financialstrategy.
Skills and experience: Tracy has over 28 years experience in human resources roles inservice industries.
She joined the Group in December 2005 from Compass Group PLC, a world-leading food service company, where she was Group Human Resources Leadership & Development Director.
Previously Group HR Director for Forte Group Committee membership key plc, a hotel company.
She also spent seven years at Tesco PLC as a Retail Human Resources Manager where she implemented a culture change and restructuring strategy across 150 stores.
A Audit Committee member Board contribution: Tracy has many years ofexperience in human C Corporate Responsibility Committeemember resources and is responsible for global talent management, leadership N development, employee reward strategy and implementation, Nomination Committee member organisational capability and operations support.
R Remuneration Committee member Governance 57 Board of Directors biographies David Kappler Jennifer Laing Senior Independent Independent A N R A C N  Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 21 June 2004 Appointed to the Board: 25 August 2005 Skills and experience: David is a fellow of theChartered Institute Skills and experience: Jennifer was Associate Dean, External of Management Accountants.
Formerly Chief Financial Officer of Relations at London Business School, until 2007.
A fellow of the Cadbury Schweppes plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Marketing Society and of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, Foods plc.
He also served as a Non-Executive Director of Camelot she has over 30 years experience in advertising including 16 years Group plc and HMV Group plc.
with Saatchi & Saatchi where she rose to Chairman of the London office and subsequently Chief Executive Officerand Chairman of Board contribution: David brings over 35 years knowledge and Saatchi & Saatchi North America.
experience in financial reporting, risk management and internal financial controls.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee he is Board contribution: Jennifer has over 30 years experience in marketing responsible for leading the Committee to ensure effective internal and advertising and is Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility controls and risk management systems areinplace.
Committee, responsible for the Corporate Responsibility objectives andstrategy.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Shire plc, a member of the Europe Advisory Council ofTrilantic Capital Partners Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Hudson and Chairman of ADS2 Brands Limited.
Global, Inc. aUShuman resources company and Premier Foods plc, abranded food producer.
Ian Dyson Jonathan Linen Independent Independent A N R N R Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2013 Appointed to the Board: 1 December 2005 Skills and experience: Ian has held a number of senior executive Skills and experience: Jonathan was formerly Vice Chairman of the and finance roles including Group Finance & Operations Director for American Express Company, having held a range of senior positions Marks & Spencer Group plc for 5 years from 2005 to 2010, where he throughout his career of over 35years with American Express.
oversaw significant changes in the business.
In addition, Ian was Chief Board contribution: Jonathan has over 25 years experience working Executive Officer of Punch Taverns plc, Finance Director for the Rank in the financial and branded sectors and is a member of the Group, andGroup Financial Controller and Finance Director for the Remuneration Committee.
hotels division of HiltonHotels & Resorts.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Yum!
Board contribution: Ian has gained significant experience from Brands, Inc. and Modern Bank, N. A. a US private banking company.
working in various senior finance roles predominantly in the Jonathan also serves on a number of US councils and advisory boards.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Punch Taverns plc, a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Betfair Group plc and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of ASOS plc.
58 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Luke Mayhew Dale Morrison Independent Independent C N R A C N Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 July 2011 Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2011 Skills and experience: Luke served for 12 years on the Board of John Skills and experience: Dale is a founding partner of TriPointe Capital Lewis Partnership, including as Managing Director of the Department Partners, a private equity firm.
Dale was previously President and Store division.
Luke also spent five years at British Airways Plc and Chief Executive Officer of McCain Foods Limited and President and seven years at Thomas Cook Group PLC in senior positions.
He was Chief Executive Officer of Campbell Soup Company.
also a Non-Executive Director of WHSmith PLC and Chairman of Pets Board contribution: Dale has over 10 years experience in sales at Home Group Limited.
and marketing positions, and over 25 years experience in general Board contribution: Luke has over 30 years experience in senior management, having held senior positions in the branded foods sector.
roles in the branded sector and was Remuneration Committee Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Chairman at Brambles Limited from 2006 to 2013.
As Chairman International Flavors &Fragrances Inc. a producer of flavours of the IHG Remuneration Committee he is responsible for setting the andfragrances, and Chairman of Findus Group, a frozen foodcompany.
Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of BramblesLimited, a global provider of supply chain and information management solutions, and trustee of BBC Children in Need.
Jill McDonald Ying Yeh Independent Independent A N C N R Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2013 Appointed to the Board: 1 December 2007 Skills and experience: Jill started her career at Colgate-Palmolive, Skills and experience: Ying was formerly Vice President and spent 16 years withBritish Airways Plc and held a number ofsenior Chairman, Greater China Region, Nalco Company and Chairman marketing positions in the UK andoverseas.
and President, North Asia Region, President, Business Development, Asia Pacific Region and Vice President, Eastman Kodak Company.
Board contribution: Jill has over 26 years experience working with She was, for 15 years, a diplomat with the US Foreign Service in high-profile international consumer facing brands at both marketing Hong Kong and Beijing until 1997. and operational level.
Board contribution: Ying has over 20 years experience gained from Other appointments: Currently Chief Executive Officer UK and working in senior positions in global organisations across a broad President for the North West Europe Division for McDonalds.
Prior to that Jill was Chief Executive Officer UK and President for the Northern Division 2010 to 2013 and previously Senior Vice President, Other appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo, Chief Marketing Officer UK and Northern Division 2006 to 2010. a transportation related products and services company, ABB Ltd, a global leader in power and automation technologies, and Samsonite International S. A. a travel luggage company.
Committee membership key A Audit Committee member C Corporate Responsibility Committeemember N Nomination Committee member R Remuneration Committee member Governance 59
