GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Nomination Committee Report Committee meetings In 2013, the Committee met on five occasions and considered executive succession planning and refreshment of the Board.
Key issues discussed in 2013 meetings The Committee discussed, amongst others, the following matters: Date Key issues discussed 15 February Considered the appointment of Kenneth Macpherson as Chief Executive Officer, Greater China and Keith Barr as Chief Commercial Officer Recommended the Board for re-election at the AGM Discussed succession planning for a Non-Executive Committee membership Director and a new Audit Committee Chairman Conducted the annual review of the composition, skills, diversity, knowledge and experience of the Board Patrick Cescau Chairman Reviewed the performance appraisals for members Members of the Executive Committee Ian Dyson, David Kappler, Jennifer Laing, Jonathan Linen, 3 May Recommended to the Board the appointment Jill McDonald, Luke Mayhew, Dale Morrison, Ying Yeh of Jill McDonald as Non-Executive Director Received an update on Board succession planning For full biographies see pages 57 to 59.
18 June Reviewed Executive Committee development, succession planning and the talent pool Received an update on succession planning for Dear Shareholder the Audit Committee Chairman Roles and responsibilities 2 August Recommended to the Board the appointment of Ian Dyson as Non-Executive Director The Nomination Committee considers the structure, size and Discussed the Boards future skills gap and matched composition of the Board, advising on succession planning and these with existing Directors skills making appropriate recommendations to ensure the Board Discussed the Chief Executive Officers mid-year retains the appropriate level of diversity, skills and experience.
appraisal The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Groups 5 December Considered and recommended the appointment of talent planning and leadership needs.
Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson as Chief Financial Officer Terms of reference ToR Succession planning Our role and responsibilities are set out in the ToR which can be Independent consultants are engaged for all Non-Executive found on the Companys website at www.
com investors Director appointment searches.
The Committee remains focused, under corporate governance committees or from the Company on behalf of the Board, on Board succession planning for both Secretarys office onrequest.
Governance During 2013, the Committee worked with senior management to All members, excluding the Chairman are independent review and strengthen the talent pool within the business and the Non-Executive Directors, as required under its ToR and also appointment of Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson as Chief Financial Officer the Code.
During 2013 Ian Dyson and Jill McDonald joined demonstrates the strength of our succession planning.
All members have the experience and new senior hires were made in both global and regional leadership expertise necessary to meet the Committees responsibilities.
positions, further strengthening our internal pipeline.
Patrick Cescau would not chair the Committee when it is Board diversity considering matters relating to his position.
In these circumstances, We recognise the value of diversity in its broadest sense and, David Kappler, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, whilst all appointments are made on merit, we seek to ensure would act as Chairman of the Committee.
the Board maintains an appropriate balance through a diverse 2013 Board appointments mix of skills, experience, knowledge and background.
The Committee considered a number of Board appointments We support the aspirations of the UK Lord Davies Report on Women in 2013.
External search agents, Egon Zehnder International, on Boards including the representation of women at the highest who have no connection to IHG, were engaged to assist in finding level in the organisation.
Wecurrently have four women on the Board two new Non-Executive Directors.
The search was undertaken 31% and two on the Executive Committee 18%.
against detailed job specifications setting out the particular skills, knowledge and experience required for these particular positions.
Further information on diversity across the Group can be found on page 23.
The Committee considered and nominated Jill McDonald and Key priorities for the Committee in 2014 Ian Dyson as Non-Executive Directors, who were appointed The Committee will consider enhancements to the Board and by the Board, effective from 1 June 2013 and 1 September 2013 Committees and as Chairman of the Committee, I am committed respectively.
Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson was considered and to ensuring that we continue to look for the right capabilities and nominated as Chief Financial Officer by the Committee and competencies for the future, looking in particular in areas such subsequently appointed by the Board, effective 1 January 2014. as guest-facing technology.
David Kappler will step down as Audit Committee Chairman and Patrick Cescau, Chairman of the Nomination Committee retire from the Board during 2014.
In February 2014 the Committee 17 February 2014 considered and nominated Dale Morrison as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Ian Dyson as Audit Committee Chairman.
Governance 69 Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Major Risks register In 2013, the Audit Committee was satisfied that the Group has an For information on remuneration see the Remuneration Committee effective risk management system and the Executive Committee, Report on pages 74 to 97.
Audit Committee and the Board reviewed the Major Risks affecting the Group.
Accountability Our approach to risk management, key risk mitigating activities and the Risk management principal risks and factors that could affect the Group are set out on The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that business risks pages 34 to 37. are effectively managed.
The Board has considered and approved the risk management policy and has delegated regular review of the risk Global Internal Audit GIA Plan and Effectiveness Review management procedures to the Audit Committee.
The review is carried out through a monitoring process, which accords with the In December each year, the Audit Committee discusses the GIA Code and the Internal Control: Guidance to Directors.
Plan and approves its nature and scope for the forthcoming year.
This Plan is reviewed on a quarterly basis to ensure coverage of Further details on the Audit Committees role in managing risk are set emerging risks.
The Audit Committee then instructs GIA to out on page 67. undertake an agreed schedule of audits during which the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls are assessed.
Day-to-day management of business risks are the responsibility of the Executive Committee.
These are managed through established During the year an internal GIA Effectiveness Review was carried processes which monitor: out and reported to the Audit Committee.
The Review contained input from auditees and senior management and assessed GIA strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series against the Institute of Internal Auditors Standards.
Following the of Group and regional strategic reviews: 2013 Review, the Audit Committee concluded that theGroups financial performance, within a comprehensive financial systems of internal controls and risk management, including planning and accounting framework: internal audit activities, were operating effectively.
capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal and Financial reporting controls authorisation processes: and risk management processes relying upon a Major Risks review The key financial controls across all our business units have been and assurance mapping process through reports from the Head identified and evaluated, in particular, to comply with our US of Global Risk Management, the Head of GIA, and, as appropriate, obligations, arising from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
This has from management providing assurance that the significant risks enabled appropriate representations regarding the effectiveness faced by the Group are being identified, assessed, prioritised, ofinternal financial controls to be made.
evaluated and appropriately managed and mitigated, having Relations with shareholders regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
Share capital and shareholders Board annual review of internal controls and risk management The Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2013 194 consisted of 268,929,217 ordinary shares of 14 329 pence each The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of including 9,773,912 shares held in treasury.
There are no special the Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
control rights or restrictions on share transfers or limitations on This review covers all material controls, including financial, the holding of any class of shares.
During the year, 604,146 new operational and compliance controls, the principal risks affecting shares were issued under employee share plans and the Company the Group, the risk management systems, and also takes into continued the share buyback it commenced on 12 November 2012. account any material developments since the year end.
Whilst areas for continuous improvement have been identified and For further details on shareholder profiles see page 180. actions initiated as a result of the Groups processes, no significant Board engagement with shareholders shortcomings have been identified from the 2013 risk assessments.
The Board engaged with shareholders in a number of ways during Internal controls 2013, which included: The system of internal controls aims to support the delivery of half-year and full-year formal reporting: our strategy by managing the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and the protection of assets including the Groups presentations by Richard Solomons and Tom Singer Chief brands and reputation.
As such, it must be recognised that it Financial Officer to 1 January 2014 to institutional investors, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance.
analysts and the media following results announcements: a programme of meetings throughout the year with major The Group continues to insure against risks, but certain risks institutional shareholders: remain difficult to insure, due to the breadth and cost of coverage.
In some cases, external insurance is not available at all, or not at telephone conferences after the release of the first and third an economical price.
The Group regularly reviews both the type quarter interim management statements: and amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the meeting the shareholders face-to-face and responding availability of such cover, its price and the likelihood and magnitude to questions at the AGM: and of the risks involved.
hosting an investor and analyst educational event Delivering High Quality Growth presented by Richard Solomons, Tom Singer and members of the Executive Committee.
70 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION To enable as many shareholders as possible to access Major institutional shareholders conferencesand presentations, telephone dial-in facilities The Board takes its responsibility to represent and promote are made available in advance and live audio webcasts the interests of its shareholders seriously and believes it is are made available after the presentation, together with very important to fully engage with them.
As far as is known associated data and documentation.
These can be found to management, IHG is not directly or indirectly owned or at www.
com investors under financial library.
controlled by another company or by any governments.
Currently around 30 sell-side research analysts publish research on the Group: their details are available at www.
com investors under analysts details.
As at 17 February 2014, the Company had been notified of the following significant holdings in its ordinary shares under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Shareholder As at 17 February 2014 As at 18 February 2013 As at 13 February 2012 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares ADSs % ADSs % ADSs % Cedar Rock Capital Limited 14,923,417 5.07 14,923,417 5.07 14,923,417 5.07 BlackRock, Inc. 13,061,965 5.01 14,505,612 5.02 14,505,612 5.02 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 8,557,888 3.30 N A N A 14,495,664 5.02 The Companys major shareholders have the same voting rights as other shareholders.
The Company does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which may result in a change in its control.
AGM The AGM provides a useful forum for one-to-one communication with private shareholders, many of whom are also guests in our hotels.
At the AGM, shareholders receive presentations on the Companys performance and may ask questions of the Board, including Patrick Cescau and the Chairmen of the Committees.
The AGM will be at 11:00am on Friday 2 May 2014 and the notice convening this meeting will be sent to shareholders at the same time as this Annual Report and Form 20-F. Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Auditor of the Company and their reappointment will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Meetings with major institutional shareholders A programme of meetings throughout the year is arranged with major institutional shareholders.
These meetings provide an opportunity to discuss, using publicly-available information, the progress of the business, its performance, plans and objectives.
Patrick Cescau, David Kappler and other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and to discuss governance and strategy.
Board shareholder updates Facilitated, structured meetings are encouraged with shareholders and any new Director is available for meetings with major shareholders as a matter of course.
A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented to the Board on an annual basis and both the Executive Committee and the Board receive regular updates on shareholder relations.
Engagement on remuneration matters Details of the Remuneration Committees engagement with shareholders is set out on page 85.
Re-engaging with gone away shareholders We continue to be supported by ProSearch to locate shareholders who have failed to keep their details up-to-date.
To date, the programme has been very successful and many asset reunifications have been made.
For further information see page 181.
Director and Executive Committee shareholdings Asat17 February 2014, Directors and Executive Committee members had the same number of beneficial interests in shares as at 31 December 2013, as set out in the table on page 72.
These shareholdings include all beneficial interests and those held by Directors spouses and other connected persons.
As at 17 February 2014, no Director or Executive Committee member held more than 0.1% of the total issued share capital.
None of the Directorshave a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary.
The shareholdings set out below do not include Directors or Executive Committee members entitlements to share awards under the Companys share plans.
These are set out separately in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 94 for the Directors and on page 167 for Executive Committee members.
