52 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS 1 NORMAN BLACKWELL ADRIAN RINGROSE TIM HAYWOOD 1 3 LORD BLACKWELL Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chairman Adrian has been Chief Executive of Tim joined Interserve as Group Norman was appointed Chairman of Interserve since 2003 during which Finance Director in November 2010 Interserve in January 2006 having time the Group has developed and was previously Finance Director joined the Group as a non-executive significantly, from around 15,000 to of St Modwen Properties.
Earlier director the previous September.
over 50,000 people, with operations roles include Group Finance Director He is a non-executive director in over 20 countries providing at Hagemeyer UK and senior finance of Lloyds Banking Group and was services to governments and a director and financial controller appointed Chairman of its insurance range of commercial and industrial positions in Williams Holdings.
Tim is subsidiary Scottish Widows Group clients.
Adrians background is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered in September 2012.
He will become in commercial management and Accountants in England and Wales.
Chairman of Lloyds Banking Group in business development.
Prior to Since 2011 he has also been Head of April 2014.
During 2013 he was also a leading Interserve he spent time Sustainability, launching Interserves non-executive director of Halma and in the outsourcing and utilities SustainAbilities Plan in March 2013. a non-executive board member of sectors.
Adrian is a member of the OFCOM and of the Centre for Policy CBI Presidents Committee and was Studies.
A former partner of McKinsey for four years chairman of the CBIs & Company, Norman was Head of Public Services Strategy Board until the Prime Ministers Policy Unit from late 2013.
He is also a past President 1995 to 1997 and was appointed a of the Business Services Association.
His past business He is a member of the Chartered roles have included Director of Group Institute of Marketing, the Chartered Development at NatWest Group, nonManagement Institute and is a Fellow executive directorships at Standard of the Institute of Directors.
He is an Life, SEGRO and Dixons Group, Nonadviser to the University of Liverpool Executive Board Member of the Office from where he has a degree in of Fair Trading and Commissioner of Political Theory and Institutions.
Norman also chairs the Nomination Committee.
1 Member of the Nomination Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee 4 Senior Independent Director
