72 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ANNE FAHY CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INTRODUCTION FROM THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIR Following on from my appointment as Chair of the Audit Committee in May 2013, I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, our Audit Committee Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Les Cullen for his stewardship of the committee over the past five and a half years.
Since my appointment as a non-executive director I have been gaining a broad understanding of the Groups operations and challenges and have spent time with both my executive and non-executive colleagues and other senior employees who have provided me with an appreciation and valuable insight into the strategy, operations and key risks of the Group.
During the year the key focus of the committee has been upon the trading judgements and estimates which underpin our revenue and margin recognition on long-term construction and service contracts, impairment testing of the value of goodwill and of the fleet within the Equipment Services business, and retirement benefit obligations, all of which are covered in more detail within the body of the report.
In addition, we have spent time understanding the extended scope of our responsibilities and how we discharge them as well as evaluating the independence and the effectiveness of both internal and external audit processes.
Anne Fahy Chair of the Audit Committee OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 73 MEMBERSHIP ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The committee is composed entirely of independent nonThe role and responsibilities of the committee are to: executive directors and is chaired by Anne Fahy.
The review with management and the external auditors the directors who have served on the committee during the Groups consolidated report and accounts and the halfyear are: year report and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance based on the statutory Date of appointment Name to committee Qualifications audit or half-yearly review, as the case may be, before submission to the Board: A K Fahy 1 January 2013 BA Hons FCA L G Cullen 14 November 2005 MBA BSc Hons FCCA FCT review the annual report and accounts and advise the K L Ludeman 1 January 2011 BA Hons MSc DSc Hon Board as to whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information D A Thorpe 1 January 2009 CPFA necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys D A Trapnell 11 September 2003 BSc Hons performance, business model and strategy: make recommendations to the Board on the appointment Anne Fahy was appointed to the committee on of and take responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness 1 January 2013 and succeeded Les Cullen as Chair on of and agreement of the fees for the statutory audit and 13 May 2013 following a handover process.
David Trapnell approval of fees to be paid to the external auditors for retired from the committee on 13 May 2013. non-audit work: Appointments to the committee are made by the Board, approve the annual work programme of the internal on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and auditor, the fees to be paid in connection with that work in consultation with the committee chairman.
Anne Fahy, and review the effectiveness of the internal audit process: Les Cullen and David Thorpe are all financially qualified.
Directors biographies are included on pages 52 to 55. provide an independent overview of the Groups systems of internal control, whistleblowing processes The Company Secretary is secretary to the committee.
and outcomes, financial reporting processes through TERMS OF REFERENCE the co-ordination and supervision of the scope, quality, independence and effectiveness of the internal and The committee has written terms of reference based on external audit and other enquiries: and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees and which set out clearly its authority and duties.
These are available on the review the Companys processes for detecting fraud.
The terms of reference are considered at least annually by The effectiveness of the Company and the Groups the committee and were updated in 2013 to incorporate internal control and risk management systems is reviewed recent changes.
The committee may investigate any activity within its terms MEETINGS of reference and is authorised to seek any information it The committee met five times during the year.
The requires from and require the attendance at any meeting external auditors were present at three of the meetings of any director, officer or employee of the Company or of and the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from the Group.
 LLP PwC, the provider of the The committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the internal audit function, were present at two of the meetings.
Companys expense, external legal or other professional The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance advice on any matters within its terms of reference.
Director and Group Financial Controller attended each of the meetings by invitation.
A full set of committee papers is provided to every director The committee has taken the opportunity to seek the views and the chair of the committee reports to the subsequent of the external and internal auditors in private and both Board meeting on the committees work.
The Board also the external and internal auditors have the opportunity receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
to address the committee in private at any time should they so wish.
In addition, the Chair met with both parties periodically to review audit and internal control topics on an ongoing basis.
74 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED reviewed its terms of reference and proposed changes to OVERVIEW OF ACTIVITIES the Board: In the year the committee has: conducted an evaluation exercise to review its own reviewed the 2012 annual report and financial statements effectiveness: and and the 2013 half-year report.
As part of each review the committee received a report from the external auditors made a recommendation to the Board regarding the on their audit of the annual report and review of the tender of the external audit.
half-year report, respectively: SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED reviewed, prior to their consideration by the Board, The committee has reviewed the key judgements applied the representation letters to be given to the external in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements auditors in respect of the annual and half-year reports: which have been prepared in accordance with the accounting reviewed audit effectiveness following the audit of the policies and detailed notes to the financial statements on 2012 annual report: pages 110 to 149.
The committee received a paper, prepared by management and reviewed by the external auditors, reviewed and approved the external auditors terms of setting out by division the key judgements made in relation engagement for the 2013 half-yearly review and for the to the following matters: audit of the 2013 annual report: Revenue and margin recognition received a briefing from the Group Finance Director on The recognition of revenue and profits on long-term the principal judgements made in determining the 2012 construction and service contracts requires management annual report and financial statements and the 2013 halfto exercise significant levels of judgement involving a year report, reviewed these judgements and satisfied high degree of discretion and control.
For constructionitself that they were robust and in accordance with the type contracts the key judgement concerns the Groups accounting policies: recognition of profits, the recovery of work-in-progress and debtors, especially on non-certified amounts considered and agreed the scope and fees to be paid to including variations and claims and forecast outcomes.
the external auditors for the 2013 audit: For service-type contracts the key accounting risk is that the revenue and costs are not recognised in the received a bi-annual update on the Groups monitoring of correct period and provisions are not made for losses fraud risk assessment: when foreseen.
For contracts in the Equipment Services division, where revenue is recognised on either the reviewed the risk register and ensured that the audit sale of equipment or over the period of an equipment activities aligned with it: hire, the key accounting risk relates to whether the ensured itself as to the adequacy of controls across the appropriate cut-off for sales and period of hire has worldwide businesses, particularly with regard to entities been applied.
which are not controlled by the Group: The committee reviewed the findings of audits and monitored non-audit fees in comparison to the audit fees management judgements reviews undertaken on a in accordance with the Companys policy on the provision selection of contracts perceived to carry the highest risk of non-audit services as detailed in External Auditor of misstatement against the background of its familiarity Objectivity and Independence below : with the operationally and or commercially challenged contracts which are regularly discussed at Board meetings.
reviewed the internal audit programme and findings and remediation actions as well as agreeing the internal audit Retirement benefit accounting plan for 2014 ensuring an adequate coverage of risks: Calculation of the retirement benefit obligation requires management to make a number of assumptions including received a report at each meeting on the progress and the selection of an appropriate discount rate and outcome of the investigation of whistleblowing notifications: mortality.
received a report from the Groups information The committee satisfied itself as to the reasonableness security forum on the state of information security of the assumptions set out in note 30 to the financial within the Group and reviewed a plan to strengthen statements, taking into account the independent thirdcyber resilience: party confirmations sought of the pension assets held at the balance sheet date, validation of the value reviewed the capability and bench strength of the established by management of the PFI assets and the divisional finance functions: accounting treatment of the adoption of IAS 19 Revised, including the restatement of the 2012 comparators.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 75 Carrying value and existence of equipment hire fleet Presentations are due to be made by the competing firms to The committee satisfied itself regarding the carrying a selection panel in good time for the committee to consider value of the hire fleet within Equipment Services taking the panels proposal and make a recommendation to the into account prospective utilisation, the results of a Board, well in advance of the planned posting date for the selection of asset counts both in the UK and overseas, Notice of AGM.
the testing of the existence of equipment on customer EXTERNAL AUDITOR OBJECTIVITY sites by checking that customers were paying the rentals for that equipment and the appropriateness AND INDEPENDENCE of recognition of sales income when it is on hire, The committee assessed the external auditors objectivity not returned or damaged at customer sites.
The and independence and the effectiveness of the external committee also satisfied itself as to the reasonableness audit process at the end of the 2012 audit cycle, throughout of managements impairment testing model including the course of the year and again at year end, canvassing the the cash flow projections from the latest budgets, the views of a number of those involved in the audit process and discount rate applied to those cash flows and sensitivities concluded that Deloitte LLP remained independent.
applied to those key assumptions.
The Company has an established policy aimed at Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets safeguarding the independence and objectivity of the The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets Groups external auditors.
on the balance sheet at the year end was 286.6 million which included goodwill with a value of 248.0 million.
The external auditors may carry out certain categories of non-audit work in areas that have been pre-approved The committee received a report on and satisfied by the committee up to a monetary limit of 150,000 per itself of the appropriateness of the impairment transaction.
Any other work for which management may wish testing undertaken by management including the key to instruct the external auditors up to a value of 250,000 assumptions used, such as the discount rate and future must be approved in advance by the committee or, more cash flows, in light of current business performance normally, by the committee Chair on its behalf.
above 250,000 require prior approval of the Board.
The pre-approved services may be summarised as follows: FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS assurance services, tax compliance and advisory services and where audit reports are required by statute or The directors are responsible for preparing the annual regulation: and report.
At the request of the Board the committee considered whether the report and accounts taken as a other services, encompassing general consultancy services.
whole was fair, balanced and understandable.
In making that assessment, the committee took into account whether the The above policy also prohibits the auditors auditing their report and accounts provided the necessary information for own work, making management decisions, entering into shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business any arrangement in relation to audit work whereby a model and strategy.
joint interest is created between the Company and the auditor, acting in the role of advocate for the Company or The committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the being appointed as recruitment consultants without the 2013 annual report was fair, balanced and understandable committees prior consent.
and contained the information set out above and reported accordingly to the Board.
The Boards statement in this The committee receives a report at each of its meetings regard is set out on page 98. itemising the fees expended and forecast to be expended with the external auditors for non-audit services.
Having EXTERNAL AUDIT reviewed the December 2013 report, the committee The committee considers and makes recommendations to the concluded that the nature and extent of non-audit fees Board as regards audit matters.
The committee also seeks to expended on tax compliance and advice, work on the ensure co-ordination between the activities of the external liquidation of a Malaysian subsidiary and the review of and internal auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the the half-year report amounting to 14 per cent, 3 per cent audit at the end of the audit cycle.
and 7 per cent, respectively, of the overall audit fee of 807,000, in conjunction with the safeguards implemented Deloitte LLP has been the Companys auditor since by Deloitte, including the use of specialists independent August 1990.
The committee concluded that the end of the of the audit team, were sufficient so as not to compromise 2013 statutory audit would be an appropriate juncture at auditor objectivity and independence.
which to invite four accounting firms representing a crosssection of the market to compete for the appointment.
76 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Further details of the audit and non-audit fees paid to the 2013 also saw the introduction of a system-based tracking auditors are included in note 4 to the financial statements and questionnaire tool requiring management to complete on page 120. a self-assessment of compliance with key controls across 14 different business areas within their particular business A change in audit partner is made every five years in unit or function which provided compliance statistics from accordance with latest guidance and best practice.
The results of the self-assessments were Accordingly, the transition between audit partners is aggregated by division and processed with the results of currently underway in conjunction with the audit tender other basic controls reviews conducted by the internal audit process.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict team during the year.
A comparison was then made with the the committees choice of external auditors.
results of the basic controls reviews performed during 2011 and 2012 which showed that: INTERNAL AUDIT businesses subject to previous basic controls reviews had The function of internal audit is to provide an independent maintained or improved their level of control: and objective appraisal to the Board, through the Audit Committee, of the adequacy and effectiveness of the whilst differing business units approached controls in processes established to control the business and to different ways common mitigation controls existed: and assist the Board in meeting its objectives and discharging its responsibilities.
newly acquired businesses were in a state of transition to the higher control standards required by the Group.
The committee is responsible for monitoring, reviewing and assessing the role and effectiveness of internal audit The Internal Audit partner has direct access to the Chair of in the overall context of the Groups risk management the Audit Committee and they meet on a periodic basis.
The committee also agreed an internal audit work plan The details of the internal audit programme are submitted for 2014, designed to provide core assurance against areas to the Audit Committee for approval, and may be modified identified as high risk, updated in accordance with the subject to agreement of the Audit Committee based on changing risk profile of the Group, together with further changing circumstances.
The 2013 programme was modified assurance on some of the medium-risk areas identified for to include the acquisition of Paragon, TOCO and Adyard.
The internal audit programme of work is risk based, with REVIEW key business activities and financial reporting processes After undertaking a review of its own performance considered for internal audit review on a cyclical basis.
the committee concluded that it had been effective in The work is carried out by PwC under an outsource contract, discharging the obligations entrusted to it by the Board.
AGM The principal objectives for the 2013 plan were to provide core assurance against those areas identified as high risk on The Chair of the Audit Committee will be available at the the audit universe created by considering the organisational AGM to answer questions about the work of the committee.
structure and key business processes within it, together Approved by the Board with further assurance on some of the medium-risk areas identified for rotational audit testing.
The committee received a summary of each internal audit review covering the findings, proposed corrective actions and managements responsiveness to those findings and recommendations.
Closure of the agreed corrective actions is tracked via a web-based system and is monitored by Anne Fahy management and the committee.
Chair of the Audit Committee 28 February 2014
