OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 65 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LORD BLACKWELL CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder Our role as a Board is to provide entrepreneurial leadership within an appropriate governance framework, set the standards of behaviour, values and ethics by which the business is expected to operate and to call to account those who do not abide by those principles.
Our continued success depends upon delivering outstanding service and better solutions to our customers in order for us to pursue our robust strategy and deliver continued growth and shareholder value.
The Board is confident of this strategy and is continually testing our current and proposed activities against this framework.
We aim to set stretching financial objectives while maintaining our prudent risk appetite.
We also recognise that our continued licence to operate relies as much on maintaining the trust and confidence of our wider stakeholder base as it does on managing the financial risks.
During the year we launched SustainAbilities, our vision for creating a sustainable business, re-visited and revised our values and provided considerable amounts of training to and communication with our employees in these areas.
To perform our role effectively we believe we need a strong and diverse Board, with an open culture of debate and challenge, with all directors appointed on merit, for the experience and insights they can bring to the Board and their commitment to our values.
Our succession planning has seen a number of changes to the Board composition and roles during the period under review.
We believe that our particular mix of executive and non-executive directors works well for the business, ensuring we have knowledge and accountability around the Board table as well as a range of external experiences.
I continue to be satisfied through my observations of the manner in which the Board functions that the strength and independence of our nonexecutives and our open style of debate ensures the continuance of an effective governance check within the Board.
In making new appointments to the Board we seek to embrace diversity in all its forms, taking into account the additional range of insights and perspectives that new and diverse candidates can contribute to an effective, cohesive and challenging mix of individuals around the Board table.
I was therefore delighted when in January we appointed Anne Fahy to our Board, bringing with her a wide range of international experience in a major industrial company.
We will continue to monitor our success in developing the diversity of the Board as part of the annual evaluation of Board effectiveness.
As was the case last year, all directors wishing to remain in office will seek re-election at the AGM.
