68 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board evaluation is currently in progress, the Board NOMINATION COMMITTEE having appointed Independent Audit to undertake this The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman role.
Independent Audit has no other connection with the and the majority of the members are independent nonCompany.
To date an Executive Board and a Board meeting executive directors.
External consultants are used for new have been observed and one-to-one interviews undertaken appointments.
The committee keeps the Board structure, with all members of the Board, the Company Secretary and size and composition, balance of skills and knowledge and certain other functional heads.
The outcome of this review experience both executive and non-executive under review is due to be presented to the Board in April.
and makes recommendations for any changes to the Board.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees also The committees terms of reference set out clearly its conducted a review of their terms of reference and their authority and duties, and are available on the Companys performance against them.
Information and support Business conducted during the year included Individual directors may, after consultation with the recommendations to the Board for the re-election of Group Chairman, take independent legal advice in retiring directors at the AGM, reviews of Board structure furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense and composition and senior management succession and up to a limit of 10,000 in relation to any one event.
development up to and including those at Board level, In the case of the Group Chairman he must consult and Board succession planning.
The effectiveness of the with the Senior Independent Director.
All directors committee and its terms of reference were also reviewed.
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, whose appointment or removal is a matter The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment reserved for the approval of the Board or any duly and remuneration of the executive and non-executive delegated committee thereof.
directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 97.
Election and re-election All directors will submit themselves for re-election at The terms and conditions of appointment of all directors the AGM.
and the Group Chairman are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Biographical details for each of the directors standing for The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors election or re-election are set out on pages 52 to 55. and the Group Chairman specify the anticipated level of time commitment.
EXECUTIVE BOARD Non-executive directors and the Group Chairman are The Executive Board, which, during the year, comprised the required to confirm, on appointment, that they have executive directors together with Trevor Bradbury Group sufficient time to meet what is expected of them and to Company Secretary, George Franks Managing Director seek the committee chairmans agreement, or in the case of Interserve International, Robin OKelly Director of of the Group Chairman, the Senior Independent Directors Communications, Ian Renhard Managing Director of UK agreement, before accepting additional commitments that Construction and Catherine Ward Group Director of Human might impact upon the time they are able to devote to their Resources, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
role as a non-executive director of the Company.
The Executive Board, which met 10 times during the course of the year, is responsible for the operational The Groups Diversity Policy states that diversity in all its management and delivery against budget and forecast forms is fundamental to the Groups business.
It is available of the Group, implementing resolutions of the Board, on the website at www.
formulation of strategy, annual budgets and other proposals The goal is to recruit, motivate, develop and retain for consideration by the Board, the identification and outstanding people that reflect the diversity of the evaluation for consideration by the Board of risks faced by communities in which the Group operates.
the Group and for designing, operating and monitoring a The Board monitors the extent to which the Group is suitable system of internal control embracing the policies meeting this objective and is committed to taking action adopted by the Board.
It is also responsible for devising where necessary or helpful to promote equal opportunity.
and, once approved by the Board, implementing suitable policies and monitoring procedures for health and safety, Good evidence of our achievements in this area was the environmental, social and ethical, treasury, human resources Investors in Diversity accreditation by the National Centre for and information technology.
Diversity given to our Construction business in 2012, the first construction company to be so recognised.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Details of the Audit Committee are included in the Audit We have increased the diversity of the Board and would Committee Report on pages 72 to 76 and are incorporated expect the policy to lead to greater diversity on the Board into this Corporate Governance report by reference.
and divisional boards over time.
