Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder The Board I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report which explains the Role governance framework within the Group and how this has been applied and Biographical details of all of the current Board operated during the year.
directors, including their relevant skills, experience and other principal appointments, The Board sets the tone from the top and promotes principles of good corporate are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The charts governance across the Group.
To do this we have in place effective practices which are below illustrate the length of tenure of the essential to our business integrity, performance and accountability to shareholders.
Chairman and non-executive directors and the This Report, together with reports from our committee chairmen as set out on pages 51 breadth of business experience on the Board to 7 2 will, I hope, provide a good overview of the systems of governance and control which enables it to discharge its duties and which operate within the Group and provide a summary of the work we have responsibilities effectively, and to challenge undertaken during the year.
and develop the Groups strategy.
As reported in my Chairmans Statement on page 7, Francesco Caio and Pat Zito have informed the Board that they do not intend to seek re-election at the 2013 AGM.
We Board sector experience % thank them for their contributions to the Board and we wish them well for the future.
Given the reduced size and complexity of the Group following the disposal of the Industrials 36 Financials 14 Invensys Rail division, it is not our current intention to replace these positions on Telecommunications 10 theBoard.
Materials 9 Technology 9 The Board has sought to implement the findings of the previous years external Other 22 performance evaluation, and progress against the speci c objectives weset ourselves has been measured by an internal evaluation during the year.
Further information about the evaluation process is set out on page 48.
The Board is pleased to con rm that during the year the Company has been fully compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
It has also implemented, where appropriate, certain disclosures recommended in the Length of tenure of Chairman latest revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 andnon-executive directors the2012 Code for the year under review.
numberofyears 0 3 years 2 3 6 years 4 6 9 years 2 Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman Invensys Governance Framework 1 Board Chairman, three executive directors and five independent non-executive directors 1 1 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chief Executive Four independent non-executive directors Four independent non-executive directors and the Chairman 2 1 Nominating Committee Risk Committee Group Leadership Team Head of Risk Chairman Chief Executive Three independent non-executive directors Chief Executive Chief Financial Of cer andtheChairman Chief Financial Of cer Chief Legal Of cer Chief Legal Of cer Chief Human Resources Of cer Chief Human Resources Of cer Head of M&A SVP Environmental, Health, Safety & Sustainability CEO & President, Software & Industrial Automation 1 VP Risk Management & Insurance President, Software Contracts Committee President, Systems One executive director, the Chairman or Senior President, Energy Controls Independent Director and at least one other President, Appliance independent non-executive director Notes 1 Board and committee memberships stated as at position following the 2013 AGM.
44 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance The Board is collectively responsible for Summary of the Boards duties promoting the success of the Group by directing and supervising the Groups affairs Strategy and management tocreate long-term shareholder value.
The Overall management of the Group and its long-term objectives, commercial strategy and operational planning Board provides entrepreneurial leadership Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside of delegated limits andsets the Groups strategic aims.
In doing this it ensures there are robust corporate Group structure governance and risk management processes Material changes to the Groups corporate, management and control structure in place.
The Invensys Governance Framework is Financial reporting shown in the diagram on the opposite page.
Approval of financial results and dividend policy, declaration of interim dividend and proposal of naldividend The Boards duties are set out in a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, Risk management and internal control assummarised in the adjacent table.
Certain Approval of risk management strategy responsibilities are delegated to Board or Review of effectiveness of Groups risk and internal control processes executive committees through structured procedures, as set out in the Governance Board membership and other senior appointments Framework on the opposite page.
The Appointments and removals of Board directors, the Company Secretary and other senior leaders chairman of each committee provides an Membership and chairmanship of Board committees and appointment of Senior Independent update on the activities of their committee Director atthe next Board meeting.
A report from Succession planning for Board and other senior leaders theNominating Committee, from the Audit Committee and from the Remuneration Remuneration Committee is included on pages 51 to 7 2.
Remuneration policy framework and speci c remuneration of executive directors and other senior Other operational matters are dealt with by leaders New or major changes to employee share plans senior management through formalised Any major changes to the Groups pension plans delegated authorities.
Governance Meetings attendance and processes Appointment of the Groups principal advisers and external auditor There is an agreed schedule of Board and Approval of the Code of Conduct and other Group policies committee meetings which are held Approval of press releases and shareholder circulars throughout the year.
In 2012 13 there were Approval of terms of reference of Board committees eight scheduled meetings of the Board.
Conducting annual review of Board performance, committees and individual directors Afurther seven Board meetings were called Determining the independence of directors atshort notice relating to consideration Authorisation of directors con icts or potential con icts of interest andnegotiation of the sale of the Invensys Raildivision, funding of the UK Pension Scheme and review of the return of cash and 1 Meeting attendance restructuring proposals.
Audit Nominating Remuneration The adjacent table sets out the attendance Board Committee Committee Committee byall directors at Board and committee Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended meetings.
This analysis only includes the Chairman committee members attendance at 2 Sir Nigel Rudd 87 1154 scheduled meetings.
Executive directors In addition to members, other directors Wayne Edmunds 8 8 frequently attend meetings of committees Victoria Hull 8 8 atthe invitation of the respective committee 3 David Thomas 8 7 chairman.
All directors attended the Board strategy meeting and the 2012 AGM.
Non-executive directors 4 Francesco Caio 8752 53 Bay Green 8 8 5 5 1 1 Paul Lester 8 8 5 5 Deena Mattar 8 8 5 5 5 Michael Parker 88551154 Dr Martin Read 8 8 1 1 5 5 Pat Zito 8 8 5 5 1 1 Notes 1 Details of meetings of the Contracts Committee are dealt with separately on page 50.
2 Sir Nigel Rudd was unable to attend the March 2013 Board and Remuneration Committee meetings due to a long-standing engagement.
His absence was agreed with the Board and the Board meeting was chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
SirNigel Rudd provided input on relevant matters on the agendas before the meetings.
3 Mr Thomas was absent from the March 2013 Board meeting due to an urgent operational matter which involved him attending anoverseas meeting at short notice.
His absence was approved by the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
4 Mr Caio was unable to attend some meetings due to prior work commitments.
All absences were approved in advance with the Chairman or committee chairmen as relevant and Mr Caio provided input on relevant matters on the agendas before the meetings.
5 Mr Parker was unable to attend one meeting of the Remuneration Committee as it was called at short notice and he had an existing external commitment.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 45 Corporate Governance continued The Board and its committees each have an Following the disposal of Invensys Rail, a full Whilst all directors have an equal responsibility annual agenda programme that aligns to the day was spent on the annual strategic plan for the operations of Invensys, the role of the formal schedule of matters reserved for the ofthe restructured Group: this included non-executive directors is particularly Board which is maintained by the Company discussions with the divisional CEOs who important in ensuring that the strategy Secretary.
There are established processes in attended this session and made presentations andbusiness proposals of the executive place to ensure meetings are well prepared on their plans.
management team are fully debated, to and run effectively : ensure that they meet the long-term interests Other areas of focus during the year included of shareholders and also take account of the monitoring and control of major projects: issues affecting employees, customers, Meeting processes review and adoption of new Board Delegated suppliers and the many communities with Authorities: and consideration and approval of Agendas are reviewed with the Chairman which Invensys interacts.
the acquisitions of PHW and Spiral Software committee chairmen against the overall calendar with key priorities and business and subsequent review of the post-acquisition The Senior Independent Director is Michael issues being added to the agenda as plan.
All committee chairmen provided Parker, who has held this role since December required: agendas are agreed approximately updates on the activities of their committees 2006.
Mr Parker is available for shareholders six weeks before the meeting tothe Board.
to contact through the Invensys Investor Meetings are scheduled to ensure there is Relations team and is also responsible for adequate time available for meaningful There were also informal meetings of the leading the Chairmans annual performance discussion of items Chairman and the non-executive directors evaluation.
Papers are agreed with the Chairman without the executive directors being present.
committee chairmen and distributed In addition, the non-executive directors are in The Board believes that it can be of bene t to electronically approximately one week before regular informal communication with the the Group as a whole for the executive the meeting unless the meetings have been executive directors and other senior leaders.
directors to broaden their experience through called at short notice to enable directors service as a non-executive director of other adequate time for review To increase the visibility of business leaders to businesses.
Subject to individual review and in Papers are designed to be comprehensive the Board, the divisional CEOs joined Board line with the Code requirements, the Groups and clear without clutter and contain an meetings on a rotational basis.
In light of the executive summary to present key highlights policy is that executive directors may hold new structure of the Group, the leaders of the Relevant actions and outcomes from Board onenon-executive directorship in another Software, Industrial Automation, Energy and committee meetings are tracked and business and may retain the fees.
None of Controls and Appliance business segments disseminated to members of the Group theexecutive directors hold any external will join the meetings in future.
This will enable Leadership Team which promotes non-executive directorships.
transparency and ensures decisions are the Board to become more acquainted with implemented these leaders and to receive updates on Balance of non-executive and performance and progress against their executivedirectors number agreed strategies.
How the Board spent its time Chairman 1 The chart below provides a summary of the Directors: composition Executive directors 3 work of the Board and its committees during Non-executive directors 5 andindependence the year.
Following the retirement of Francesco Caio and Pat Zito with effect from the 2013 AGM, At each scheduled meeting the Board there will be a total of nine directors on the received reports from the Chief Executive Board, comprising the Chairman, five ono perational matters, the Chief Financial non-executive directors and three executive Of cer on financial performance and the directors.
Chief Legal Of cer on legal, regulatory and compliance matters.
Board gender balance number The Board considers that all of the current non-executive directors are independent.
Following the annual strategic review last year, Male 7 Thenon-executive directors are drawn from the Board engaged in a series of meetings Female 2 diverse international businesses and, as which enabled them to provide constructive illustrated on pages 42 and 43, bring a range input and to implement the strategic of skills and experience to enable them to transformation of the Group.
This gave rise to constructively challenge and develop the the decision to dispose of the Invensys Rail Groups strategy and direction.
division which was contingent on nding a solution to our legacy UK pension issues.
The return of cash proposal and restructuring proposal to reduce costs were developed contemporaneously.
How the Board spent its time % Strategy 37 Operating & financial performance 17 Governance 8 Committees 38 46 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Chairman and Chief Executive Bay Green, non-executive director and Induction and development There is a clear division of responsibilities Chairman of the Audit Committee, has now On appointment, new directors receive a between the Chairman and the Chief completed an eight-year term.
Following a comprehensive induction programme tailored Executive, which is fide ned in writing in a rigorous review by the Nominating Committee to their speci c requirements based on their schedule which has been approved by the in 2011, it was concluded that Mr Green had a experience.
The objective is to provide Board.
The schedule was reviewed during range of skills which added value to the Board directors with a combination of selected theyear and updated to conform with the and, as a result, they recommended to the written information and the opportunity to visit provisions in the 2012 Code and the Financial Board that his appointment be extended and business sites and meet with key leaders of Reporting Councils Guidance on Board that he continue as Chairman of the Audit the Group.
Whilst the duties are separate Committee.
Mr Green received overwhelming Deena Mattar joined the Company in May inpractice they work collaboratively and support for his re-election at the 2012 AGM.
2011 and at that time a tailored induction maintain a close working relationship.
Following further review, the Board is still of the programme was developed for her.
During Asummary of the individual roles is set opinion that Mr Green adds value to the Board theyear under review, Ms Mattar completed outbelow: and recommends that he remain a nonthis programme by visiting the Invensys executive director.
However, in accordance Operations Management division to gain with succession planning he will stand down Summary of duties adeeper understanding of the Groups as the Chairman of the Audit Committee and operations and meet with key employees.
The Chairman is responsible for: be replaced by Deena Mattar with effect from leadership of the Board 17 May 2013.
It is intended that Mr Green will The continuing development of the directors, facilitating the contribution of the noncontinue as a member of the Audit Committee.
collectively and individually, is effected through executive directors and ensuring that a number of channels.
Directors receive constructive relations exist between the Paul Lester, non-executive director, will have regular brie ngs at Board meetings which are executive and non-executive directors completed a three-year term in July 2013. relevant to their role.
During the year these reviewing the effectiveness of the Board Following the outcome of his performance ensuring compliance with the Boards included developments in governance review, the Nominating Committee concluded approved procedures matters, regulatory updates and legislative that Mr Lester has skills, experience and safeguarding the interests of shareholders changes.
For example, updates on the revised knowledge of value to the Board and, as and promoting effective communication 2012 Code and review of new reporting aresult, has recommended to the Board the with shareholders requirements and obligations including appointment of Mr Lester be extended for proposals from the Department for Business, afurther three-year term.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: Innovation & Skills: The Future of Narrative management and leadership of the Group: As detailed on page 52, the Nominating Reporting and Directors Pay.
he is supported by the Group Leadership Committee will be reviewing succession Team, as detailed in the Invensys Normally as part of the annual Board planning over the coming year.
Governance Framework on pages 44 and 45 programme at least one meeting is held offsite developing the Groups strategy in close at a Group business location so that directors consultation with the Chairman and Company Secretary can increase their understanding of the executing the agreed strategy The Company Secretary is Victoria Hull, business activity.
During the year a meeting promoting high standards of integrity, probity whoisalso the Chief Legal Of cer.
She was scheduled to be held in Turkey with senior and corporate governance wasappointed as Company Secretary on leaders from the businesses to emphasise the 1January 2006 and acts as secretary to all of importance of the wider Middle East region to the committees of the Board.
Her biographical Election and re-election of directors Invensys.
Given the activities involved with the details are set out on page 42.
The The Companys Articles of Association require disposal of the Invensys Rail division, the combination of Ms Hulls roles as the that any director appointed during the year Board decided not to proceed with this trip.
Company Secretary and director is regularly should stand for election at the first AGM Inthe next year the Board intends to resume monitored to ensure there is no con ict of following their appointment.
In line with the its schedule for offsite meetings.
The Deputy Secretary attends Board Code, all directors are required to seek and committee meetings and has the first line Independent professional advisers are made re-election by shareholders annually.
of responsibility for preparation of minutes and available in order for directors to discuss Following the evaluation of performance of the issue of Board papers.
matters of signi cance to the Group, and each director, which concluded that each directors are encouraged to attend external member brings skills and experience to the To enable the Board to perform its duties, brie ngs.
The Board ensures that directors effectiveness of the Board, it is proposed that alld irectors have full and timely access to have access to independent professional all directors stand for re-election at the 2013 all relevant information and to the services advice on how to discharge their AGM, other than Francesco Caio and Pat Zito of the Company Secretary.
responsibilities as directors of the Company.
who informed the Board that they did not intend to seek re-election and accordingly willbe retiring from the Board at the close ofthat meeting.
As detailed on page 44, given the reduced size and complexity of the Group following the disposal of the Invensys Rail division, it is not the current intention of the Board to replace these positions.
com 47 Corporate Governance continued Board performance evaluation An annual review is undertaken of the performance of the Board, committees and directors.
Outcomes of 2011 12 evaluation In 2011 12, in line with the Code and best practice, the Company commissioned its first  performance evaluation.
This was an extensive exercise conducted by an independent consultancy, Egon Zehnder, which provoked good debate.
Overall it was concluded that the Board and its committees continue to operate effectively.
Areas of focus were agreed and progress against these actions is set out below: Action Status Focus on strategic discussions The strategic direction of the Group has been an area of signi cant focus during the year.
Implementation of the agreed strategy resulted in the sale of the Invensys Rail division to create a more focused supplier of industrial software, systems and control equipment.
Ensure there is appropriate consideration of This continues to be an area of focus for the Audit Committee and the Board, with input from the Risk project risk, including bidding and control of Committee.
projects Give increased focus to developing the talent of Information on the top leaders is included in the Chief Executives Board report as a standing item and the Groups senior leaders plans for these leaders are regularly reviewed by the Board.
An audit of the talent of the top leaders was conducted as part of the Organisational Capability Review process.
Review the format of Board meetings to ensure The content and format of papers were reviewed and changed with a view to enhancing discussions on there is appropriate time to discuss key issues in key matters.
In addition, papers were prepared for discussion at Board dinners to help ensure adequate depth time was devoted to Board matters.
In months where there is no scheduled meeting a report from the Chief Financial Of cer and, if required, updates from the Chief Executive and or Chief Legal Of cer are issued electronically.
Any questions on these reports can be raised directly with the executive directors.
Ensure that the Board composition continues to Monitored by the Nominating Committee and changes to the Board agreed for 2013 14. have the appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity 2012 13 evaluation Following the external evaluation last year, the Board conducted an internal evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
All directors contributed to the evaluation which was conducted using a comprehensive questionnaire in which directors were asked to rate certain statements as well as providing additional commentary as required.
Individual performance evaluations focused on the effectiveness of the contributions made by directors.
Consideration was given to the aggregate time commitments of the non-executive directors.
The Board is satis ed that each director is committed to their role.
For the evaluation of the Board, consideration was given to procedures and effectiveness.
Assessment was given to the relevant roles and responsibilities under review, the terms of reference of the committees and best practice.
Following discussion of the results, the Board is satis ed that it and its committees remain effective.
However, in recognising the need for continuous improvement, a number of areas of focushave been agreed for 2013 14 as summarised below and progress against these objectives will be reported in the Annual Report andAccounts 2014.
Summary of 2013 14 objectives Enhance the Board evaluation process to provide a more qualitative and interactive exercise.
Deepen the non-executive directors understanding of the new lines of business as well as providing an opportunity to meet key leaders.
Consider further the skills, experience and geographic diversity of the Board taking into account succession planning.
Review the remuneration strategy for appropriateness in light of the reorganised Group.
Monitor cost savings as a result of the reorganisation.
48 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors con icts of interest Shareholders are kept informed of the Group Leadership Team In line with the Companies Act 2006, directors progress of the Group during the course The Group Leadership Team provides the are required to avoid any situation in which oftheyear through half-year and full-year senior executive management with a platform they have or can have a direct or indirect resultspresentations, interim management for strategic discussion and information interest that con icts or may possibly con ict statements, capital markets days and other sharing to assist with the following: with the interests of the Company, unless announcements of material developments authorised by the Board.
The Companys thatare released through the London Stock Development of Group strategy and Articles of Association allow the Board to Exchange and other news services.
The operational plans: authorise such con icts and to impose such results presentations made to the investment Oversight and review of strategic plan limits or conditions as it deems necessary.
community are webcast and copies of execution, including: There is no breach of duty if the relevant supporting materials are made available on business development opportunities and matter has been authorised in advance.
the Groups website details of which can be their potential impact: found in Shareholder Information on page assessment and control of risk and The Company has an established procedure 15 7.
Other general shareholder information compliance by considering the Groups whereby actual and potential con icts of can be found on the Groups website.
risk appetite and risk pro le: interest are reviewed regularly and in any event resources, giving consideration to annually.
Appropriate authorisation is required The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Of cer succession planning for senior executives prior to the appointment of any new director maintain regular dialogue with the major and the needs of the Group with a view to and when any new con ict arises for a director institutional shareholders and participate in ensuring its continued ability to compete or there is a change in circumstances that may sector conferences.
Shareholders can also effectively in the marketplace: and affect an authorisation previously given.
raise questions directly with the Company at incentive plans and executive Authorisations are granted by those directors any time by contacting the Groups Investor remuneration.
who have no interest in the matter being Relations team, whose contact details are considered and are recorded in the Register listed on our website.
To ensure the aligned execution of the Boards of Directors Con icts.
Where there is a strategy, Board actions and outcomes are The annual report and accounts are made con ict, the Board will con rm whether any disseminated to members of the Group available to shareholders at least 20 working conditions should be imposed under the Leadership Team to facilitate a remit that is days prior to the AGM.
Directors are available terms of the authorisation.
broader than a purely operational committee at the AGM to answer questions, which and to encourage the consideration of the During the year the Board considers the provides a useful interface with private Group perspective by the leaders of the procedure was operated effectively.
Shareholders also have an business segments.
opportunity to meet informally with directors Board committees after the meeting.
Resolutions are proposed Communication with shareholders The Board delegates speci c authorities to separately and voting is conducted by polls itsAudit Committee, Nominating Committee, atgeneral meetings, and voting results are Communication with shareholders is at all Remuneration Committee and Contracts announced through the London Stock times given a high priority, and a number of Committee, all of which operate within fide ned Exchange.
The results and proxy levels are means are used to promote greater terms of reference.
Copies of these terms also available on the Groups website and understanding and dialogue with the ofreference, together with certain other onrequest from the Company Secretary.
The Board receives governance-related documents can be found TheCompany is permitted under its regular reports from the Chief Executive and on the Companys website.
Board committees  to send or supply the Groups Investor Relations team.
The are authorised to engage the services of communications to shareholders Chairman and the Senior Independent external advisers as circumstances require, electronically, and the Company now supplies Director are available to meet with major atthe Companys expense.
Reports of the information such as notices of meetings, forms shareholders on request.
During the year, Nominating Committee, Audit Committee of proxy and annual reports and accounts via the Chairman spoke with a number of major andRemuneration Committee are included on the Groups website.
Shareholders are noti ed shareholders regarding general business pages 51 to 72.
Directors receive copies of all by email or post when new information is topics.
In addition, the Chairman of the committee minutes and the chairman of each available on the website.
The Company sends Remuneration Committee held discussions committee provides an update on matters of hard copy communications to those with major shareholders on relevant matters.
signi cance at the Board meeting following the shareholders who have requested them.
Shareholders may at any time revoke a previous instruction and elect to receive hardcopies or electronic copies of shareholder information.
com 49 Corporate Governance continued Accountability and audit The findings of the annual assessment The Chairman of the Risk Committee presents oftheGroups system of internal controls a report at each Audit Committee meeting to Financial planning and reporting undertaken by the Audit Committee, as provide an update of the key risks and new The Group has comprehensive planning and detailed on pages 54 to 55, were presented to and emerging risks identi ed by the Groups financial reporting procedures.
Where weaknesses in the businesses.
This provides assurance that the prepares detailed operational budgets for the operation ofinternal controls were identi ed, risks faced by the businesses are appropriate year ahead and a three-year strategic plan, the Audit Committee considered and mitigation plans are in place.
which are reviewed and approved by the managements response to them.
The Audit On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee Board.
Performance is monitored through Committee has continued to pay particular reviews annually the risk management themonthly reporting of financial results and consideration to the management of customer process and periodically conducts external regular updating of forecasts for the year.
contracts and received detailed reports on reviews.
TheGroup Accounting Policies Manual is major contracts from management and the used by all businesses in the Group to ensure external auditor.
The Board is satis ed that the Further information on the Boards approach that transactions and balances are recognised information that it received throughout the year and appetite for risk is set out in the Risks and and measured in accordance with the Groups on internal controls and the information from Uncertainties section on pages 33 to 40. prescribed accounting policies.
All businesses the annual assessment on internal controls submit their results using the Groups was suf cient to enable it to review the Remuneration Committee consolidation system, which ensures that effectiveness of the Groups system of internal information is gathered and presented in a Details of the Remuneration Committee and controls.
The Board is satis ed that, where the consistent way that facilitates the production its policies, together with information on the need to improve internal controls was of the consolidated financial statements.
remuneration and share interests of directors, identi ed during the year, appropriate actions are set out in the Remuneration Report on have been and arebeing taken.
The Remuneration Report The directors are responsible for the Groups should be read in conjunction with this Risk management system of internal control and for reviewing its Corporate Governance Report, of which The Board has responsibility for determining effectiveness.
During the year ended 31 March itforms an integral part.
the nature and extent of the signi cant risks it 2013, each of the Groups divisions was is willing to take in achieving the strategic accountable to the Chief Executive and was Contracts Committee objectives and has established a structured managed by executive leadership which approach to identifying, evaluating, managing, The Contracts Committee considers certain provided day-to-day control over the divisions monitoring and reporting on key risks facing tenders and contracts that require Board operations within the strategic guidelines and the Group.
approval but which are due for submission delegated authorities determined by the ata time when there is no scheduled Board The Risk Committee has accountability for Board.
Under the new Group structure that meeting.
The terms of reference of the creating and overseeing the risk management took effect from 1 April 2013, similar Contracts Committee are available on the processes and procedures, and provides arrangements are in place.
The internal control Groups website.
written reports to the Board and the Audit system is designed to meet the Groups Committee on the key risks facing the Group.
particular needs and the risks to which it is Meetings of the Contracts Committee must The Risk Committee formulates strategy and exposed.
It should be appreciated that, comprise at least one executive director, policy based on risk appetite and risk however effective a system of internal control theChairman or in his place the Senior exposure.
It also monitors the mitigating is, it can provide only reasonable and not Independent Director and at least one actions put in place by the relevant operational absolute assurance against material othernon-executive director.
managers to address the identi ed risks.
The Contracts Committee met on five occasions during the year.
50 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Membership Nominating All of the members of the Nominating Committee are independent non-executive directors save for myself.
Committee Report Meetings Report from Sir Nigel Rudd, The Nominating Committee held one meeting during the year Chairman of the Nominating Committee and details of members attendance are set out on page 45.
Effectiveness of the Nominating Committee Current members As detailed on page 48, an internal evaluation was conducted Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman during the year which con rmed that the Nominating Bay Green Committee was operating effectively.
An area of focus for the Michael Parker Nominating Committee over the coming year will be to consider Dr Martin Read 1 succession planning and the skills, experience and geographic Pat Zito diversity of the Board.
Note Role 1 Retiring with effect from the 2013 AGM.
The Nominating Committee has a number of responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference which are available on the I have chaired the Nominating Committee since 17July2009.
In summary the key roles are to: I am pleased to present this Report of the Nominating review the Board structure, size and composition including Committee which explains our role and our principal activities the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity compared during the year.
with its current position and make recommendations to the As detailed on page 44, given the reduced size and complexity Board with regard to any changes: of the Group following the disposal of the Invensys Rail division, consider succession planning with regard to the Board and we do not currently intend to replace the non-executive director senior leaders: and positions of Francesco Caio and PatZito.
make recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment, reappointment and retirement of directors.
We have a cycle of events for annual consideration, whichincluded the consideration of the Board evaluation Activities of the Nominating Committee recommendations, which was externally conducted for the Set out below are the key matters considered by the rsttime in respect of the year 2011 12.
Those recommendations Nominating Committee during 2012 13 and subsequently.
were considered and implemented during the current year.
Further details are described more fully below, and I hope this Consideration of Board evaluation recommendations report is useful in describing the ongoing work of the Following the internal Board evaluation, the recommendations re reviewed and objectives for 2013 14 were agreed by Nominating Committee.
we the Nominating Committee in May 2013.
Governance matters We dealt with a number of annual governance matters, including consideration of the independence of the nonexecutive directors.
We also conducted a review of our terms of reference, the outcome of which concluded no changes were required.
Diversity In response to the Davies Report on Women on Boards we have previously con rmed our aim to increase the proportion of female representation on the Board by 2015.
Following the 2013 AGM over 20% of the Board will be female.
We recognise the importance and bene ts of diversity and will continue to take this into account in our recruitment processes whilst ensuring that candidates are selected on merit and ensuring that there is an appropriate range and balance of skills, experience and background on the Board.
com 51 Corporate Governance continued The chart below details the Chairman and non-executive Nominating directors and their terms of of ce.
The Nominating Committee reviews this information to help plan the membership of the Committee Report Board to ensure we have the appropriate skill sets, relevant continued experience and diversity on the Board and its committees.
As detailed on page 47, the Board agreed on the Re-election of directors recommendation of the Nominating Committee that the On the recommendation of the Nominating Committee, the appointment of Paul Lester be extended for a further three-year Board has proposed that all directors seek re-election at the term.
The Nominating Committee also con rmed that Bay 2013 AGM other than Francesco Caio and Pat Zito who Green would retire as Chairman of the Audit Committee and informed the Board that they did not wish to seek re-election.
bereplaced by Deena Mattar with effect from 17 May 2013.
MrGreen will continue as a member of the Audit Committee.
Succession planning Further, with effect from the 2013 AGM, Paul Lester and Deena Succession planning is a key area of discussion for the Mattar will join the Audit Committee and Remuneration Nominating Committee.
We reviewed the capability of our Committee respectively.
leadership team and considered the succession plans for the executive directors.
This included reviewing development plans The retirement of Francesco Caio and Pat Zito was accepted and career opportunities across the Group.
and it was decided not to replace these positions given the reduced size and complexity of the Group.
Over the next year the Nominating Committee will review the Board composition including the skills, experience and geographic diversity of the Board, particularly in light of the new strategic focus of the Group.
Board tenure Chairman and non-executive directors 1 2 Director Date of appointment 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Bay Green 01 January 2005 Michael Parker 16 May 2006 Sir Nigel Rudd 01 January 2009 Dr Martin Read 18 July 2009 3 Paul Lester 01 January 2010 Deena Mattar 19 May 2011 Third term Second term First term Notes 1 All directors are subject to annual re-election.
The chart excludes Francesco Caio and Pat Zito who informed the Board that they did not wish to seek re-election at the 2013 AGM.
2 The commencement of the first term of of ce is the date of the AGM in the relevant year of appointment.
3 Appointment to be extended for a further three-year term.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman of the Nominating Committee 52 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance I should acknowledge the helpful contributions from the Audit Committee Report external and internal auditors who have also made themselves available on request for discussion whether or not as part of the Report from Bay Green, Audit Committee.
Chairmanofthe Audit Committee Deena and I have worked closely together on the Audit Committee since Deena joined the Group with a view to the 1 Members Relevant financial change of Chairmanship being a seamless event.
The Audit quali cation Committee will bene t from her very practical financial Bay Green Fellow of the Institute of background and experience of chairing such committees.
2 Chairman Chartered Accountants Shehas my best wishes for her new role.
3 Francesco Caio Membership All of the members of the Audit Committee are independent 2 Deena Mattar Fellow of the Institute of non-executive directors.
Chartered Accountants I am a quali ed chartered accountant and Fellow of the Institute Michael Parker of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA and have worked in financial roles for over 30 years.
My full 3 Pat Zito Chartered Accountant biography is set out on page 43 together with those of the other members of the Audit Committee.
As part of my commitment to the Audit Committee, I attend technical update seminars on Notes 1 Paul Lester will join the Audit Committee with effect from the 2013 AGM.
2 Bay Green Chairman until 16 May 2013 following which he will be replaced by Deena Mattar on 17 May 2013.
Mr Green will remain a member of the Audit Committee.
She was formerly Group Finance Director 3 Retiring with effect from the 2013 AGM.
The Board is satis ed that at least one member of the Audit I have chaired the Audit Committee since 2006 and I am Committee has recent and relevant financial experience as pleased to have the opportunity to explain its work.
required for corporate governance purposes.
I invite all members of the Board to meetings of the Audit Committee.
Executives from the Groups finance team Meetings including the Chairman of the Risk Committee, as well as The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during representatives of the external auditor and the internal audit theyear and details of members attendance are set out partner as required join our meetings.
Consequently, our onpage 45. meetings are well attended.
The chart below shows how we spent our time and our A description of our activities during the year is set out on activities are described in detail on pages 54 to 56. pages 54 to 56 but I would like to preface thi s with a few introductory remarks.
How the Audit Committee spent its time % After nalising the financial statements for the year ended 31March 2013, I am retiring as Chairman of the Audit Financial reporting 31 Internal audit 18 Committee and Deena Mattar is taking on this role.
I shall External audit 14 continue as a member of the Audit Committee for the financial Internal controls 13 year 2013 14.
Iwould like to take this opportunity to thank my Risk management 13 colleagues on the Audit Committee for their contributions and Other matters 11 support over the period of my Chairmanship.
As explained earlier, I encourage all members of the Board to attend the Audit Committee meetings given that it provides a real insight into the financial operation of the Group.
As a result, the Audit Committee also bene ts from the contributions of other In addition, I meet periodically with the Chief Financial Of cer directors who are not actual members of the Audit Committee.
and Group Controller for business updates with particular During my tenure as Chairman, the Groups financial emphasis on financial performance.
In advance of each Audit management has made great progress.
I have worked with Committee, I meet with key executives and the external auditor several Chief Financial Of cers of the Group and it has been to ensure that the reporting and discussion will appropriately both interesting and helpful that each comes with slightly address the Audit Committee agenda matters.
At the time of different priorities and perspectives which taken together the half-year and full-year results, I have a private meeting with haveundoubtedly given the Audit Committee a more holistic the external auditor to ensure that any issues they have approach in meeting its objectives.
identi ed are raised and discussed appropriately at the The working relationship with the senior executives in the subsequent Audit Committee meeting.
Furthermore, the Audit Finance team has also been excellent with detailed reporting Committee has a private meeting with the external auditor at and timely and comprehensive responses to any requests for least once a year, without management being present, to additional information by the Audit Committee.
Continuous discuss their remit and any issues arising from the audit.
improvements are being made to the Groups internal control and risk framework.
com 53 Corporate Governance continued Activities of the Audit Committee Audit Committee Report Set out below are the key matters considered by the Audit Committee during 2012 13. continued Financial reporting In addition to their periodic attendance at relevant meetings The Audit Committee reviewed the form and content of the where internal audit findings are considered, the Audit nnual Report and Accounts 2012 and the half-year financial A Committee meets at least once a year without management report prior to their publication to provide assurance that the present with the managing partner from Deloitte LLP who disclosures made in the financial statements were properly set isresponsible for the provision of internal audit services in context.
As part of this process, the Audit Committee totheGroup.
received reports from management and the external auditor.
Reports that the Audit Committee received from the Group Effectiveness of the Audit Committee Controller included the following areas for review: The Board evaluation detailed on page 48 con rmed that the Comparison of results between management and financial Audit Committee was operating effectively, being diligent and accounts: providing good judgement.
The monitoring of cost savings as a A reconciliation with the most recent forecast approved by result of the reorganisation of the Group will be an area of focus the Board: for the Audit Committee over the next year.
A financial overview of the results: Signi cant items in the Group Financial Statements that Role and responsibilities require critical accounting judgements, estimates and The Audit Committee has a number of responsibilities as set assumptions with regard to construction and long-term out in its terms of reference which are available on the Groups service provision contracts, impairment of goodwill, pension website.
In accordance with corporate governance guidelines and post-retirement bene ts, development costs, provisions the terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed and contingent liabilities: annually.
An update of key areas of focus for the Audit Committee During 2012 13 the Audit Committee agreed changes to its including in particular analysis of major longterm terms of reference effective 1 April 2013 which re ected contracts, research and development, and intangible provisions of the updated 2012 Code and the Financial development costs: Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit Committees.
Dividends and distributable reserves: and Liquidity risk and the basis for preparing the Group accounts In summary the main duties of the Audit Committee are to: on a going concern basis.
review and recommend to the Board the financial statements In their reports to the Audit Committee, the external auditor and formal announcements relating to financial performance, provided their audit opinion along with their audit findings that including a review of accounting policies and financial were of signi cance in relation to the audit of the financial reporting judgements: statements included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 examine, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the and for the half-year findings a review of the financial position Groups systems of internal controls and risk management, and results of the operations.
The Audit Committee reviewed and ensure that the process accords with the Turnbull these reports with the external auditor.
Guidance: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit Internal controls function: During the year we have examined the key elements of the oversee the relationship with the external auditor and make nternal control processes and provided assurance to the i recommendations to the Board regarding their appointment Board on the effectiveness of the internal control environment.
and remuneration: Set out below are a number of the activities that have been assess the effectiveness of the external audit process: and completed in our review of financial, operational and agree the policy on auditor independence and the non-audit compliance controls.
We considered the results of internal control self-assessment Also, with effect from 1 April 2013 to: returns from the businesses and reviewed management responses to any identi ed weaknesses.
review the annual report and accounts when requested by We received a report from the external auditor which set out the Board as a whole and to advise whether it is fair, their key observations on the internal control environment balanced and understandable and provides the information that had arisen during their annual audit, along with necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups managements remediation plans to strengthen further the performance, business model and strategy: internal controls within the Group.
ensure that at least once every 10 years the audit services At most meetings we receive a summary of the financial contract is put out to tender to enable the quality and control audits performed by Internal Audit, including the key effectiveness of the existing services to be assessed: and recommendations.
The audits include reviews of processes report formally to the Board on how the Audit Committee has relating to accounting and finance, revenue, project discharged its responsibilities.
management and contracting, capital expenditure, procurement, inventory, payroll and general computer The Audit Committee is satis ed that, during the year under controls.
Last year we reported that particular attention had review, it has fully discharged its responsibilities under its terms been given to ensuring a timely remediation of any audit of reference.
recommendations: this rigour has continued this year with updates provided at each meeting.
54 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance We reviewed arrangements under which employees can, We also considered Ernst & Young LLPs own annual ona con dential basis, raise concerns about potential transparency report which provides information on the irregularities in financial reporting or other matters, and the structure and governance of the audit rm and outlines their arrangements for follow-up actions.
processes relating to audit quality and auditor objectivity.
Signi cant variances between results and internal forecasts Following the results of the assessment we remained satis ed are considered and where such variances are indicative of with the effectiveness and performance of Ernst & Young LLP control failings, management actions to address weaknesses and recommended to the Board their reappointment which will are reviewed.
We monitor key controls through a governance, risk and Consistent with market practice, Ernst & Young LLPs audit compliance application known as the Internal Control services to the Group are provided annually through terms of Framework ICF which is a software application for the engagement which we reviewed.
These terms do not include monitoring of key financial controls.
This was implemented in any contractual obligations under which the directors would be April 2012 to strengthen the overall control environment prevented from appointing a different rm.
through the early identi cation of control weaknesses.
Completion of monthly assessments is comprehensive and As part of the annual assessment of the external auditor we demonstrates good compliance.
discuss whether there would be any bene t from a change We continue to focus on system tools to tighten our internal in auditor or a competitive tendering process.
The Audit controls, for example establishing an automated ledger link Committee remains satis ed with the services provided by between general ledgers and sub-ledgers in our ERP Ernst & Young LLP, and does not propose to undertake a systems in the businesses to the Groups financial tender in the coming year.
In light of the recommendation consolidation system that ensures a full audit trail and no included in the updated 2012 Code for FTSE 350 companies allowance for manual entries.
to put their audit out to tender at least every 10 years, it is the The Audit Committee receives a regular and comprehensive Groups intention to carry out a tender during 2014 15. review of internal controls and accounting matters in advance We also discussed the proposed audit plan with the auditor and of each results announcement.
agreed key initiatives to drive cost ef ciencies without impairing The Boards review of the risk management process and its the service quality.
In reviewing the external audit fee, we statement on internal control is contained on page 50. compared the fee with market rates.
Long-term contracting continues to be a key area of focus in the audit.
Risk management As the Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing risk Non-audit services management processes and reporting systems on behalf of the One of our responsibilities is to ensure the independence of our Board, presentation of an update from the Chairman of the Risk ternal auditor is not impaired in the provision of any non-audit ex Committee has become a regular cadence.
We have a policy in place which governs the nonapproach to the completion of project risk registers has audit services that can be appropriately performed by the facilitated reporting to the Audit Committee and enabled more external auditor.
This is set out on page 56. sophisticated and meaningful reports.
In advance of each Audit During the year we receive a quarterly report on non-audit Committee meeting, I now meet privately with the Chairman of services which we review at our scheduled meetings.
the Risk Committee to review progress and key matters to be presented in the report to the Audit Committee.
In the year, Ernst & Young LLP was engaged to provide transaction assurance services in relation to the disposal of the As well as reviewing the major risks in more detail, we Invensys Rail division for a fee of 1.3 million and the proposed monitored the mitigation actions put in place by management.
return of cash to shareholders for a fee of 0.3 million.
They The role of the Risk Committee is described fully on pages 33 continued to provide services under the global tax compliance and 35 and the risk management and review process is and legal entity rationalisation programmes, both of which outlined on pages 34 and 35.
A summary of the principal commenced in prior years.
Other potential suppliers were risksand uncertainties facing the Group is presented on originally considered for these programmes, but the external pages3 5 to 38. auditors knowledge of the Group, and the ef ciencies that could be achieved as a result, were key factors for their External auditor engagement with this work.
Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys auditor since October 1999.
During the year we reviewed the quali cation of the audit team, the rotation policies, auditor independence and their rm-wide procedures and credentials, together with the effectiveness of the audit process.
This assessment included feedback from the Groups senior finance management which was co ordinated through completion of a questionnaire distributed to finance managers which sought feedback ontheaudit process.
com 55 Corporate Governance continued with the internal audit managing partner as well as his meeting Audit Committee Report the Audit Committee without the attendance of management.
continued Internal Audit has reported regularly to the Audit Committee on the results of internal control audits undertaken under a rolling plan agreed in advance.
Internal control issues are monitored Non-audit services policy by the Audit Committee to resolution.
Under this policy the external auditor is prohibited from Internal Audit operates to an annual plan for financial control undertaking any work that is considered to threaten its audits in conjunction with central continuous monitoring of independence or objectivity in its role.
Prohibited work these controls using the Groups ICF application.
The internal speci cally includes bookkeeping services, the design and audit plan is riskbased in the audit of financial controls, implementation of financial information systems, appraisal or long-term contracts and other operational audits.
The internal valuation services, actuarial or legal services and any other audit plan is integrated into an overall assurance matrix for work that would involve the external auditor in preparing theGroup.
financial information that is included or disclosed in the audited financial statements, or in making judgements or The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was assessed taking decisions on behalf of management.
during the year using a similar questionnaire approach to that adopted for the external auditor.
The feedback has been shared The external auditor is permitted to undertake work in other with Deloitte LLP.
The results concluded that the function was areas as long as it is the most suitable supplier of the service effective and performed in accordance with relevant and the terms and conditions of the engagement, including professional standards.
The Audit Committee agreed that the level of the fee, do not impair its objectivity or questionnaires will be completed by the businesses as a matter independence.
Under the policy, the Audit Committee of course after each audit to collect continuous feedback.
pre-approves the use of the external auditor for routine non-audit services, subject to a quarterly and annual During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and approved monetary cap.
Routine non-audit services include advice on an updated Internal Audit Charter.
accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters: assurance over internal accounting and risk management Other matters procedures: non-statutory audit including reviews of interim As supporters of the promotion of good payment practice, financial information : project assurance and advice on we recommended to the Board that the Company sign up to accounting process improvement: due diligence in the UK Governments Prompt Payment Code.
connection with business acquisitions and disposals: As sponsor of a programme to reduce the number of legal corporate income tax and indirect tax compliance and entities in the Group to simplify the structure and reduce advisory services: and tax services in respect of business operating costs, we continue to monitor progress through acquisitions and disposals.
Speci c approval is required from six-monthly updates.
Since commencement of the the Audit Committee for any of these services that would programme in 2011, there has been a signi cant reduction in result in the pre-approved monetary cap being exceeded, the number of entities in the Group and cost savings realised.
and for any other services that are not included in the list of There has been a focus on the employee expense process pre-approved services.
and monitoring of compliance to policy.
We reviewed and approved for recommendation to the When determining whether the external auditor is the most Board, amended delegated authorities which set limits suitable supplier of a particular service, management and the ofapproval for certain matters to Group management Audit Committee take into account the cost-effectiveness of andthe divisions.
the service and the external auditors knowledge of the Group.
We observed closely the monitoring of major projects and, Ernst & Young LLP has policies and procedures in place to through the Group Controller and external auditor, received ensure that the highest standards of objectivity, detailed reports on such projects.
independence and integrity are maintained and these To ensure that the preparation of the annual report and comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical accounts takes account of current best practice we Standards for Auditors.
The audit engagement partner must considered guidance issued by the Financial Reporting approve any non-audit services offered to the Group.
This Council and comments made by shareholder bodies on the ensures that the objectives of the proposed engagement are adequacy of our disclosures.
This review process has been not inconsistent with the objectives of the audit: allows the in place for a number of years and will continue.
identi cation and assessment of any related threats to Ernst The Audit Committee received brie ngs from the Group & Young LLPs objectivity: and assesses the effectiveness of Controller and Chief Legal Of cer about developments in available safeguards to eliminate such threats or reduce them financial reporting standards, compliance matters and best to an acceptable level.
Ernst & Young LLP do not carry out practice to ensure we continue to focus on the right areas.
non-audit services where no satisfactory safeguards exist.
Internal audit The majority of internal audit work for the Group continues to be outsourced to Deloitte LLP.
The Group maintains a small Internal Audit function t o manage the outsourcing contract, undertake certain assignments and follow up internal audit recommendations.
This function reports to the Group Controller but the internal audit managing partner has a direct Bay Green reporting line to me also.
At least once a year I meet privately Chairman of the Audit Committee 56 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
