Nominations committee continued Activities of the committee continued In anticipation of Tim Faithfulls forthcoming retirement During 2013, the committee also considered and at the conclusion the 2014 AGM, the committee made recommendations to the board on the adoption considered the positions of Senior Independent of a policyon diversity.
The board recognises the Director and Chairman ofthe remuneration importance ofdiversity both in the boardroom and committee.
After careful deliberation, it was concluded that Simon Thompson was the best across the group more generally.
In 2013 its diversity initiatives have focused on introducing a group-wide candidate for both these roles and a recommendation wasmade to the board accordingly.
commitment to diversity and inclusion, including encouraging and enabling greater diversity of thinking.
As a result of these changes, Simon Thompson will be The implementation of this commitment includes stepping down as Chairman of the ethics committee.
measurement and monitoring of progress on diversity Thecommittee considered suitable candidates for and inclusion activities.
hisreplacement and concluded that Linda Adamanys previous experience made her the best candidate As part of the c ompanys broader diversity initiative, it supports the objectives of the Davies Report on Women forthis role and a recommendation was also made tothe board.
Simon will assume the role of Senior on Boards.
Candidates for board appointments are evaluated in light of the requirements of therole, having Independent Director and Chairman of the remuneration committee, and Linda will assume appropriate regard to the objectives of the Davies Report and to the group-wide commitment to diversity therole of Chairman of the ethics committee immediately following the 2014 AGM.
Gender diversity of the board Female Male m The gender diversity of the company and its senior management is shown on page 15 In early 2014, the committee considered the reappointment ofNeil Carson and Colin Day for asecond three-year term ofoffice as their first three-year terms end at the forthcoming AGM.
Theirsignificant external experience and their fullparticipation in board discussions, providing constructive challenge, resulted in arecommendation being made to the board to reappoint both directors.
58 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Ethics committee Key responsibilities The purpose of the ethics committee The committee reviews and monitors business ethics is to assist the board in upholding within AMEC, including compliance with relevant AMECs core value of integrity.
legislation, regulation and current best practice.
It also reviews and approves AMECs Code of Business Conduct at least annually.
It considers and reviews the scope and planning of all Dear shareholder, compliance activity within AMEC and reviews the extent We have made significant progress in recent years.
and effectiveness of AMECs internal training and external Wenowhave in place a strong framework to support reporting of compliance and ethics matters.
AMEC asit grows and becomes more global, ensuring thatour employees, and those who work with and for us, In the event of an actual or suspected material breach act with integrity wherever they are based.
ofAMECs Code of Business Conduct or any relevant legislation, a member of the committee will take Complacency would be foolish when a company has 29,000 responsibility for and manage any investigation into the people working in 40 countries.
We have a well developed relevant matter with the support of the General Counsel independent third party reporting system for employees to and Company Secretary.
report their concerns or report issues in complete confidence.
The committee treats all reports, however Activities of the committee reported to us, with the respect they deserve.
Thankfully The committee reviewed AMECs Code of Business nothing of significance was reported in 2013 but there were Conduct in August 2013 and endorsed its continuing use a handful of minor infractions which were dealt with swiftly.
There was a focus on the effectiveness of procedures toprevent bribery and corruption.
As a result, additional training on anti-bribery and corruption was rolled out throughout the company towards the end of the year, asmentioned elsewhere in this report see pages 15 Simon Thompson and 38 Chairman of the ethics committee During the year, the committee received from the Chief 13 February 2014 Ethics Officer a relatively small number of investigation reports over alleged or suspected ethical breaches and or concerns, some of which were reports made to Members the independent third party reporting system.
None of The ethics committee comprises all the independent the investigations highlighted any significant control non-executive directors.
The quorum for the committee is failure or noteworthy financial impact.
The outcome of two members.
these investigations resulted in disciplinary action being taken against a small number of employees, as well as The company chairman, the executive directors and the enhancements being made tothe existing control Group Ethics Officer also attend each meeting by invitation.
environment whereappropriate Membership of the ethics committee The committee also oversaw the appointment of Meeting attendance additional Ethics Officers to align to AMECs revised Simon Thompson Chairman 3 3 geographically based structure and took steps to ensure Linda Adamany 3 3 that the ethics process within AMEC had not been Neil Carson 3 3 impaired in any way as a result of the structural Colin Day 3 3 reorganisation that commenced in 2012.
Tim Faithfull 3 3 Chairman Non-executive director Simon Thompson will step down as Chairman of the ethics committee at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM and will be replaced by Linda Adamany.
The committees terms of reference can be found at amec.
com aboutus culture corporategovernance or on request from the Company Secretary AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 59
