Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Leadership Ona day to day basis, the board has delegated responsibility Board role and responsibilities for the implementation of the global policies and ownership AMECs board is ultimately responsible for promoting the of the global mandatory procedures to the Group long-term success of the company in accordance with Management Team.
The board is responsible for regularly theexpectations of, and its obligations to, all stakeholders.
reviewing the effectiveness of the governance framework.
The directors believe that the board leads and controls the m See amec.
com aboutus culture cobc for further details on the group effectively and that all directors act in accordance Code of Business Conduct with what they consider to be the best interests of the company, consistent with their statutory duties under Board committees theCompanies Act 2006 and other legislation.
The board is supported in its work by four board committees In order to ensure it retains appropriate overall control audit, remuneration, nominations and ethics, chaired ofthe group, the board maintains a schedule of matters byeither the Chairman or another non-executive director, reserved for its approval.
These include: and a number of management committees, chaired by executive directors, to which specific responsibilities have annual strategic and short-range plans been formally delegated.
financial and treasury policies m Full written terms of reference for each board committee can risk identification, risk appetite, risk management be found at amec.
com about us culture corporategovernance andinternal control systems m Details of the membership, duties, responsibilities and work of major acquisitions and disposals the committees are set out on pages 52 to 61 Code of Business Conduct All of the boards independent non-executive directors full and half year accounts aremembers of each of the board committees.
The dividend policy boardconsiders that this structure and consistency succession planning for directors and senior executives ofmembership contributes to the effectiveness of group-wide policy framework thecommittees, as the benefit of each members independence and external viewpoint is available.
ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices.
The board ensures that the committees are provided with This schedule is reviewed on an annual basis and was whatever resources they need to undertake their duties lastreviewed in August 2013.
The board also delegates and that their membership continues to be appropriate.
othermatters to board committees and management The secretary of the committees produces timely records asappropriate.
of all meetings, which are circulated to each member.
In The Code of Business Conduct CoBC forms the addition, the chairman of each board committee reports foundation of AMECs approach to corporate governance.
fully to the board following each meeting.
Itis the responsibility of, and upheld by, the board and ensures that those who work for and under AMECs direction understand the behaviour that is expected of them.
In early 2013 the board launched a revised global policies document, supported by a set of global mandatory procedures and designed to strengthen the corporate governance framework.
These revised global policies and procedures provide a more detailed description of expected working behaviours and so will aid consistency in the direction and management of the businesses throughout the group in accordance with AMECs vision and values.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 51
