Audit committee Dear shareholder, The key objectives of the audit Robust governance remains a fundamental characteristic committee are to provide independent of the way AMEC manages its business and risks.
Your scrutiny of the companys financial committee has a vital role to play in this regard by providing detailed scrutiny over the integrity and relevance of the and non-financial performance, the groups financial reporting, the appropriateness of the adequacy of the risk management groups system of internal control across numerous framework and the internal controls geographies, the suitability of the groups system of risk management as well as overseeing the internal and and the performance of both the external audit processes.
external and internal audit functions.
Where necessary, the committee has requested and received There is a wide diversity of experience additional detailed information from management: for and knowledge on the committee, instance, material projects, so that we may discuss the keyfeatures, risks and opportunities these present.
Our which ensures the achievement aim is to provide proactive and constructive challenge over of these objectives and provides the information we receive.
As Chairman, I also spend a constructive challenge and guidance considerable amount of time outside committee meetings with the CFO, Head of Internal Audit, General Counsel and to the executive team.
our external advisers to ensure our process, reports and analyses are fully understood and acted upon.
This past year we have again been served extremely well with the timeliness and quality of information provided by management and from the internal and external auditors.
Their reports have been clear and relevant, which has enabled this committee to discharge its duties effectively.
As reported by our company chairman, Tim Faithfull retires this year after serving this committee and board since 2005.
I would like to thank him for his valued contribution tothis committee and we wish him well for the future.
Consistent with the requirements of the Code, we are providing additional information this year and we do hope you will find this helpful in better understanding the work of your committee.
Colin Day Chairman of the audit committee 13 February 2014 The committees terms of reference can be found at amec.
com aboutus culture corporategovernance or on request from the Company Secretary 52 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Members Activities of the committee The audit committee comprises all the independent In preparation for each meeting, the CFO prepares an non-executive directors.
The committee meets at least extensive report covering all material financial, tax and three times each year and the quorum for the committee treasury matters.
During the year, the committee reviewed the terms of Membership of the audit committee reference of both the committee itself and those of the internal audit department.
As a result, the committees Meeting attendance terms of reference were refreshed to reflect the additional Colin Day Chairman 3 3 reporting requirements under the Code.
Linda Adamany 3 3 Training provided to the committee in the year included a Neil Carson 3 3 presentation in December 2013 from Ernst & Young LLP Tim Faithfull 3 3 EY on corporate governance, narrative reporting and 1 Simon Thompson 2 3 Chairman Non-executive director auditcommittee developments.
1 Flight delays caused by severe weather in the US in December 2013 Financial reporting prevented Simon Thompson from attending the committee meeting In its reviews of the full and half-year results, particular that day emphasis was placed on contractual issues, where the Colin Day has relevant and recent experience in auditing reported financial position was fully analysed in the CFOs and accounting.
Biographies of all committee members report and validated by means of questioning.
The rules can be found on pages 48 to 49. relating to the reporting of exceptional and discontinued items were also considered at length, to ensure that they The company chairman, the executive directors, the were being appropriately applied.
In December 2013, the GroupFinancial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit committee considered and validated the levels of andrepresentatives of the external auditor also attend provisions and accruals.
Other areas of focus in 2013 included: During 2013, the committee chairman also met separately with the external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit and the The CFOs report highlights legacy contract risks and CFO, in each case without others being present.
No areas material contracts those above 10 million in contract of concern were raised.
value to AMEC showing a deteriorating position over time, such as TGPP as discussed on page 22.
The Key responsibilities committee reviewed and discussed managements Reviewing the annual and half yearly financial proposed enhancements to its early warning system statements and making recommendations to toaugment visibility, at an earlier stage, to the board theboardfor their approval ofpotentially underperforming material contracts Reviewing and monitoring the internal controls forfurther scrutiny.
andriskmanagement systems Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor including the approval of the engagement letter, letter ofrepresentation and statutory audit fees Promoting an effective internal audit function Overseeing AMECs compliance processes.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 53 Audit committee continued Activities of the committee continued In coming to its view that it is satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the document, the Financial reporting continued The treatment of the UK conventional power business as committee took into account: discontinued, where the committee sought assurances its own knowledge of the group, its strategy and from management that the projects were complete and performance in the year there was no further revenue generating activity.
the comprehensive guidance provided to all contributors Revenue recognition, which is by necessity based on to the annual report and accounts management estimates and assumptions, particularly a thorough internal verification of the factual content with regard to timing.
In conjunction with the external within the document auditor, the judgements of management were challenged, especially those relating to end-life forecast estimates.
the comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the group to ensure consistency and overall balance AMECs policies and processes that control the estimates made in such areas were also examined to ensure that a detailed review by senior management.
they continued to be relevant and robustly and Internal controls and risk management consistently applied.
The committee reviewed the processes by which AMECs The ongoing quality and acceptability of AMECs control environment is evaluated.
A control risk assessment accounting policies, taxation matters, the going concern is undertaken every year, with comprehensive integrity statement and more specifically, the impact on the checks, and the exercise in 2013identified no significant reporting process of the structural reorganisation areas of concern.
Each year, AMECs senior management undertaken in late 2012.
is formally required toconfirm compliance withAMECs As part of the CF Os report, the committee now receives Code of Business Conduct, policies and procedures.
Any details of all breaches of treasury policy.
Ithad previously areas of concern have tobefully explained and addressed.
only received details of material breaches, of which During the year the committee received from the Head of therewere none.
This has increased the committees Internal Audit a small number of incident reports regarding knowledge of how relatively minor issues are identified alleged or suspected wrongdoing, some of which were and addressed to ensure they do not become more concerns raised through the independent third party significant matters.
All of the incidents were investigated, Agreeing the appropriate presentation of items such as were low level in nature, and did not reveal any significant the deferred tax applied to the UK pension asset and internal control failure or have any noteworthy financial thetreatment of research and development R&D impact.
The committee also reviewed management governmentcredits.
actions, which included enhancements made to existing controls or procedures and, in a few instances, disciplinary Assisting management in resolving issues raised by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in relation to the 2011 action taken against employees.
None of these issues was material The committees primary responsibilities in relation to risk tothe group.
They included use of non-GAAP measures, management are in ensuring that robust processes are in the ability to link provision movements to the income place for managing risk throughout AMEC.
statement and disclosure of the inputs used in goodwill AMECs principal business and strategic risks are shown impairment testing.
Additional clarification was requested in June 2013 and this was provided to the satisfaction of by business model element in the Strategic report on pages 12 to 38 and the approach to managing risk is the FRC.
shown in more detail on page 85.
At the request of the board, the committee has also reviewed and provided advice on whether the annual report and accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, to enable AMECs shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
54 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Internal audit On behalf of the committee, the Head of Internal Audit undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness of In 2013, the committee continued to monitor and review the operation of the internal audit function, receiving a full the external auditor, overseen by the Company Secretary.
The views of senior members of the finance teams report at each meeting from the Head of Internal Audit.
The Head of Internal Audit formally reports to the throughout AMEC are sought, as well as qualitative feedback.
Responses can be measured and directly committee chairman.
compared with previous surveys, so that progress can The findings of each internal audit review are summarised bemonitored.
and the committee focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory In February 2013, the committee considered the findings and on the action plans in place to address them.
Particular areas of concern during 2013 included IT effectiveness report which identified a few minor issues that have subsequently been addressed.
They included security, including malicious network traffic issues and isolated instances where potential issues with security of some duplication of information requests and a requirement for better co-ordination in some areas.
Overall, however, data were identified and addressed.
the report concluded that EYs performance had been of External audit good quality and a plan was agreed to deal with the issues During 2013, the committee continued to oversee the raised.
The committee noted that improvements continued relationship with the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY.
Each year the relevant audit risks are assessed.
In 2013, EY were appointed as AMECs external auditor in 2010, the primary risks identified were revenue recognition, following a formal tender process.
Both EY and the audit valuation of work in progress and receivables, the partner responsible for the group audit have now been in adequacy of contract provisions and legacy liabilities and place for four years.
The committee takes account of and issues arising out of the organisational restructuring that endorses the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate occurred in late 2012.
Other risk areas included the Governance Code in this regard, which means that the valuation of pension assets and liabilities: the adequacy of external audit contract will be put out to tender at the tax provisions: the presentation of discontinued operations: latestby 2020, subject to further regulatory change.
the risk of fraud and management override: and the AMEC has formal procedures relating to its relationship with recognition and presentation of R&D government grants.
Throughout the year and in conjunction with EY, the the external auditor including for the provision of non-audit services, to ensure that such work does not impair the external committee challenged management and assured itself that the risks were being addressed and that reporting auditors objectivity and independence.
This procedure clearly outlines the category of work the external auditor is onthe matters was balanced.
permitted to carry out and the rules governing what is not The audit differences and quality of earnings schedule for permitted.
The procedure follows the guidelines set out by the year ended 2013 was presented by EY at the February the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales 2014 meeting.
The value of unadjusted differences and the and has an approval matrix for all non-audit services, quality of earnings high level review of the impact of items including the requirement that fees for other services that could be considered non-recurring in nature were thattotal 100,000 or more require prior approval from discussed in detail.
Neither the audit differences nor the both the CFO and the Chairman of the audit committee.
quality of earnings impact were considered to be material.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 55 Audit committee continued Activities of the committee continued 2013 2012 000 000 External audit continued The procedure was amended during the year to reflect Statutory fee 1,422 1,332 regulatory changes defining the type of work that needs to Non-audit fee 448 686 be disclosed and the committees reporting requirements Sub total 1,870 2,018 in this regard.
This process is also continually monitored Proposed Foster Wheeler acquisition 1,600 bythe Head of Internal Audit and details of all other services performed are formally presented to the audit Total 3,470 2,018 committee twice a year.
It is the responsibility of the audit All EYs fees for non-audit work were approved committee to monitor the overall level of non-audit fees inaccordance with AMECs policy covering non-audit inrelation to audit fees from an independence point of services.
As a result of the application of this policy and viewand to confirm that auditor independence has been additional discussions with them, the directors do not safeguarded.
If there are any concerns about this, for the believe that EYs independence has been compromised avoidance of doubt, the undertaking of such work would because of this additional work on behalf of the company.
The level of non-audit fee awarded to EY is considerably higher in 2013 than would normally be the case, as shownin the table opposite.
In conjunction with the CFO, the audit committee chairman approved the services of EYto undertake and support managements due diligence work for the proposed acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Thesubstantial due diligence performed by EY primarily covered the balance sheet, profit & loss, accounting policies, revenues, provisions, liabilities, general accounting, tax, corporate finance and differences between US GAAP andIFRS.
The decision to appoint EY to undertake this work was considered by the audit committee to be in thebest interest of shareholders.
The firm has a deep understanding of AMEC, placing them at a distinct advantage to support the board in this regard.
In addition, should the proposed acquisition be successful, asizeable portion of the work performed by EY will not have to be repeated, thereby making the most efficient andeconomic use of shareholders funds.
56 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013
