Strategic report Governance Financial statements NoMiNatioN coMMittee rePort The Nomination Committee comprises Neil England, Michael Hartley, Linda Jensen and Stephen Puckett and is chaired byMarco Sodi.
It meets as required and is responsible for considering and recommending to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as Executive and Nonexecutive Directors.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board which involves the Nomination Committee interviewing candidates proposed by either existing Board members or external search consultants.
Careful consideration is given to ensure appointees have sufficient time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When dealing with theappointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director will chair the Committee instead of the Chairman.
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make a proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the responsibility of the whole Board following recommendation from the Committee.
diversity ITE has adopted a Board Diversity Policy which recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse Board, and sees increasing diversity at Board level as an important element in maintaining a competitive advantage.
A truly diverse Board in its broadest sense will include and make good use of differences in the skills, regional and industry experience, background, race, gender and other qualities of Directors.
These differences will be considered in determining the optimum composition of the Board and when possible should be balanced appropriately.
All Board appointments are made on merit, in the context of the skills and experience the Board as a whole requires to be effective.
The Committee met three times during the year and was active in the appointment of ITEs new Nonexecutive Director, Stephen Puckett.
The selection process began with the agreement of a specification for the role by the Committee and thesubsequent appointment of external search consultants, Heidrick & Struggles, who have no other connection with the Company, to carry out a search and review of prospective candidates.
After completion of a rigorous interview process, theCommittees recommendation that Stephen Puckett be appointed was passed unanimously by the Board, with Stephenjoining the Company as a Nonexecutive Director on 1 July 2013.
Other activities during the year included: reviewing the succession planning and talent mapping processes for senior management: and reviewing the balance of skills and experience on the Board and considering if any changes were necessary.
Marco sodi chairman of the nomination committee 2 december 2013 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55
