Strategic report Governance Financial statements corPorate GoverNaNce rePort UK corporate Governance code compliance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code.
This statement describes how the principles of the Code are applied and reports on the Companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
The Board considers that the Company has been in compliance with all the principles and provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2013 and to the date of this report.
the Board The Board of Directors the Board currently has eight members, comprising the Nonexecutive Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, an additional Executive Director, and four independent Nonexecutive Directors.
All the Directors bring strong judgement to the Boards deliberations.
The Board is of sufficient size and diversity that the balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The Nonexecutive Directors are all independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision B.
1.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
The Company considers that the Chairman was independent on appointment.
The Nonexecutive Directors were all appointed for an initial threeyear term and in common with the Executive Directors are subject to reelection each year by shareholders at the AGM, and, as set out in the Code, the Board continuing to be satisfied that they remain independent,.
the chairman and chief executive The different roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged.
A responsibility statement for each of those roles has been agreed and adopted by the Board.
senior independent director Michael Hartley was the Senior Independent Director throughout 2013.
His responsibilities included being available to liaise with shareholders who have concerns which are not able to be resolved through the normal channels, being a sounding board for the Chairman and leading the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Having served on the Board for more than ten years since his appointment, Michael will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM on 31 January 2014. the directors The biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The Directors have all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in UK and or nonUK listed companies and have substantial experience in business.
The Nonexecutive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups pension schemes or in any of the Groups bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
At all times at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, has comprised independent Nonexecutive Directors.
At the AGM on 30 January 2014 all the Directors will once again offer themselves for reelection in compliance with Code provision B.
7.1. with the exception of Michael Hartley as noted above.
role of the Board The Board has overall responsibility to shareholders for the proper management of the Company.
It met seven times during the financial year and held its July Board meeting at its office in Moscow.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making, including responsibility for the overall management and performance of the Group and the approval of its longterm objectives and commercial strategy, approval of annual and interim results, annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, material agreements and major capital commitments, approval of treasury policies, and assessment of its going concern position.
Board members receive appropriate documentation in advance of each Board or Committee meeting which normally includes a detailed report on current trading and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make adecision or give approval.
These are delivered through an electronic platform, improving the efficiency of its communications and reducing paper usage.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and review, at least annually, by the Board of mediumterm plans and the annual budget.
Management accounts are circulated to the Board on a monthly basis and business performance and any significant variances to budget are formally reviewed at scheduled Board meetings.
All major investment decisions aresubject to postcompletion reviews.
Board discussions are held in an open and collaborative atmosphere with sufficient time allowed for debate and challenge.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Governance corPorate GoverNaNce rePort continued During the year the Chairman met with the Nonexecutive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Nonexecutive Directors also met without the Chairman or Executive Directors present.
Directors and officers insurance cover, is provided by the Company, in line with normal market practice, for the benefit ofDirectors in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
Board effectiveness review During 2013 the Board commissioned a Board effectiveness review the Review which was conducted by an external, independent facilitator, Sharon Constancon of Genius Methods Limited.
Genius Methods has no other connection with theCompany or any member of the Board.
The Review took place between April and September 2013 and included the completion of a detailed questionnaire, a series of structured interviews with each of the Directors and the Company Secretary, and the observation of one Board and one Committee meeting.
Feedback from the Review was provided in the form of a report which was presented by Genius Methods to the September Board meeting, which then discussed the findings and the recommendations proposed by Genius Methods.
The Review concluded that the Board was effective with a strong and professional Chairman, a strong cadre of Nonexecutive Directors with a broad range of experience and expertise, and a Chief Executive who takes a positive andproactive approach to supporting the Board.
A number of suggestions for improvement were made by Genius Methods which were discussed, and it was agreed thatthe following areas should be focused on over the next twelve months to improve the Boards effectiveness further: The recruitment of an additional Nonexecutive Director to the Board.
Increasing the amount of time spent by the Board each year on developing the Groups strategy.
Reviewing the composition and remit of the Board and its Committees to ensure greater efficiency and optimal performance.
Progressing the Groups succession planning agenda and talent management process.
Ensuring that management information submitted to the Board and its Committees continue to be fit for purpose.
independent professional advice The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, ifrequired.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
In addition, the Directors have direct access totheadvice and services of the Company Secretary.
training and development An induction programme is arranged for newlyappointed Directors which include presentations on the business, current strategy and shareholder expectations.
Guidance is also given on the duties, responsibilities and liabilities of a Director of alisted company and key Board policies and procedures.
Business familiarisation involves Directors visiting exhibitions in markets in which the Group operates to gain a greater understanding of the Groups activities and to meet senior managers throughout the business.
Every Director has access to training as required and is encouraged to continue his or her own professional development through attendance at seminars and briefings.
conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association, in line with the Companies Act 2006, allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and impose limits or conditions, as appropriate.
The Company has established a procedure whereby any decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of interest is only effective if it is agreed without the conflicted Directors voting or without their votes being counted.
In making such a decision, as always, the Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
No request to authorise an actual or potential conflict of interest was made during the year.
Board committees There are a number of standing Committees of the Board to which various matters are delegated.
They all have formal terms of reference approved by the Board which are available on the Groups website www.
Theirreports are set out on pages 51 to 71.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 48 Strategic report Governance Financial statements attendance at Board and committee meetings in 2013 Remun Audit eration Nomination Board Committee Committee committee Neil England 7 4 4 3 Michael Hartley 7 4 4 3 Linda Jensen 7 4 4 3 Neil Jones 7 Stephen Puckett appointed 1 July 2013 2 1 1 1 Marco Sodi 7 4 3 Edward Strachan 7 Russell Taylor 7 total number of meetings 7 4 4 3 shareholder relations The Company is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and has a well established cycle of communication based on the Groups financial reporting calendar.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, have dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and general presentations are given to analysts and investors covering the annual and interim results.
During the year, a presentation was made to Board members by the Companys brokers to update them on the views of major shareholders about the Company.
The Board also received institutional and analysts feedback following both the interim and annual results roadshows.
The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 41 details the financial performance of the Company as well as setting out the risks it faces and plans for the future.
All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the Companys AGM on30 January 2014.
At the AGM, the Chairman will give a statement on current trading conditions.
The Chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions at the AGM.
In addition, the Groupswebsite containing published information and press releases can be found at www.
com Whistleblowing arrangements The Company has an established policy which enables and encourages staff to report in confidence any possible improprieties in either financial reporting or other matters.
corporate social responsibility Neil Jones, Finance Director, is the Board sponsor for environmental, social governance, community investment and other corporate social responsibility matters.
asB guidance on narrative reporting The Company considers that it is in compliance with the additional guidance on narrative reporting for UK companies published by the Accounting Standards Board in January 2008. anticorruption policy As part of ITEs commitment to preventing bribery and establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption wherever and in whatever form it may be encountered, a formal anticorruption policy was approved by the Board in 2011 and appropriate procedures put in place, in line with guidance provided by the Ministry of Justice to ensure compliance withcurrent legislation and the Companys policy and related procedures.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Governance directors resPoNsiBiLities stateMeNt The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless theyare satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of theCompany for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company willcontinue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standards require that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and each of the Directors considers that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board russell taylor chief executive officer Neil Jones Group Financial director 2 december 2013 2 december 2013 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 50
