Strategic report Governance Financial statements aUdit coMMittee rePort The Audit Committee comprises Neil England, Linda Jensen, Stephen Puckett since July and is chaired by Michael Hartley.
All members of the Committee are independent Nonexecutive Directors and they are considered to provide the wide range of international, financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties.
The Board considers that Michael Hartley has the appropriate financial expertise, as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
During the year the individual members of the Committee have visited a range of the Groups offices and shows, including Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Moscow and the Groups main UK show Moda, holding meetings with local staff and, where appropriate, following up on matters previously identified by external and internal audits.
The Committees role is to provide effective corporate governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting.
Specific responsibilities include: reviewing the financial results announcements and financial statements and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and listing requirements: reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the accounting policies and practices including critical accounting policies and practices: advising the Board on whether the Committee believes the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, advising the Board on the appointment of the external auditor, agreeing their fees and assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process: considering and making recommendations to the Board on the nature and extent of the significant risks to which the Group is exposed and monitor managements mitigation plans: reviewing the scope and results of the Groups internal audit activity and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit process: monitoring the Groups whistleblowing process: and monitoring compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
The Committee met four times during the year.
By invitation, all meetings were attended by the Group Finance Director, theGroup Chairman and our external auditor Deloitte LLP and for certain meetings or parts of meetings, the Group Financial Controller, and the Groups Head of Internal Control.
Other relevant people from the business were also invited to attend certain meetings or parts of meetings to provide a deeper level of insight into certain key issues and developments.
To maximise effectiveness, meetings of the Committee generally take place just prior to a Company Board meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board, as part of a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their work.
Separately, the Chairman of the Committee has also held meetings with: the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the external auditor to review the progress with matters raised in the management letter and separately the potential impact of technical accounting updates: the external auditor, and: the Groups Head of Internal Control.
Following publication of the revised version of the Code, which applies to financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the Board requested that the Committee advise whether it believes the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committees terms of reference have been amended to reflect this and can be found on our website at www.
Each of the four Committee meetings held during the year has a particular specific focus, in order as follows: the management letter from the external auditor following the prior years audit: the review of the external auditors interim review work and the interim financial statements: the external audit plan: the results of the external audit and review of the annual financial statements and associated investor presentations.
In addition, every meeting reviews summaries of the latest internal audit reports, the update of the risk assessment, and any correspondence received by the Board which fallswithin the Committees remit.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Governance aUdit coMMittee rePort continued In assessing the appropriateness of the financial statements the Committee concentrated on the following significant audit risks, which were agreed with Deloitte in advance of the audit and were the focus of their audit and on which the Committee received written reports from management and Deloitte as part of the audit process: acquisition accounting As there is exercise of judgement involved in identifying and valuing the consideration and the assets acquired in a business combination.
The Committee assesses the processes used in the identification and valuation of acquired assets and liabilities including the reasonableness of any assumptions used.
This year, for example, amongst other things, the Committee considered whether there was appropriate consistency between the assumptions made about terminal values and amortisation lives.
Whilst remaining satisfied with the previous assumptions used, the Committee identified refinements to the methodology to be adopted in future.
The Committee also assesses the final split of consideration between goodwill and identified intangible assets.
impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Which involves measuring the carrying value of goodwill against the discounted cashflows of each of the cash generating units CGU.
Each regional office is considered to be a CGU.
There are a number of judgements to consider including thediscount rates used, the growth rates applied and the expected life of the shows.
Discount rates are selected to reflect the risk adjusted cost of capital for the respective territory.
Growth rates and the respective life of the shows reflect managements view of the longterm forecast rates of growth and longevity for the shows in the respective territory.
recoverability of venue advances and loans One of the key factors of success in the exhibition business is maintaining strong relationships with suitable venues.
Aspart of these relationships, the Group often makes loans or advances to venues.
Assessing the future recoverability of the venue loans and advances involves judgement.
This is exercised by considering the track record of recoveries, together with assessment of economic conditions and show performance in the relevant territory.
the appropriate recognition of revenue Is critical to the financial statements.
The Committee believes that the risk is focused on the validity and cutoff of revenue.
All revenue is recognised when the service has been delivered.
With respect to exhibitions and conferences theGroup usually invoices its customers in advance of the show and so defers the revenue until the date the event has 1 completed.
Floor plan audits are seen as central to the controls process for the accurate recognition of revenue and confirming that floor plan audits are being performed on a timely and robust basis forms a critical part of internal audittesting of procedures during the year on a rolling basis to each operating unit.
internal control In 2008 a formal process of internal audit was implemented which involved appointing a Head of Internal Control, identifying a limited scope audit of minimum acceptable control practices and appointed KPMG LLP to carry out the audits on a rolling basis amongst certain operating units.
The reports are made available in summary form to the Committee and in detail form to the Group Finance Director, relevant operating management and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Groups Head of Internal Control assists with training and monitors correction to any identified issues.
Each year, the Committee reviews theproposed internal audit programmes, which have a greater focus on higher risk units.
There has been a considerable improvement over the past periods.
In 2012 the audit scope was extended to include elements of the Groups programme toensure its compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
This year the audit scope was reviewed by the Committee, and following liaison with Deloitte, was extended to include tests of some additional internal control processes.
The effectiveness of the internal control process is assessed annually on an informal basis involving discussions with local management teams and others involved in the process.
The Committee plans to improve the documentation of its review and formalise this effectiveness assessment process in the coming year.
risk Management The Groups risk assessment process and the way in which significant risks are managed is a key area of focus for the Committee.
Its work is primarily driven by the Groups assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties as set out on page 38.
These risks and uncertainties are the output of a full review, performed annually, involving a top down review by the Executive Directors and a bottom up risk assessment performed by each operating unit management team considering the risks facing their business unit.
As part of this annual process, the plans to mitigate the identified risks are reviewed.
The Committee reviews these assessments and makes adjustments to the overall risk plan as appropriate.
The Committee receives reports from the Group Finance Director at each meeting on perceived changes to the risks identified and approves any changes to the risk plan.
Based on the suggestions of the external review of Board effectiveness outlined on page 48, at the Board meeting in September 2013, it was decided to create a new Risk Management Committee of the Board, to be chaired by the Group Finance Director.
1 Floor plan audits are a process by which the floor plan map of the exhibition is matched and reconciled to the invoices issued to the exhibitors fortheir attendance at the exhibition to ensure completeness of revenue recognition.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 52 Strategic report Governance Financial statements external audit The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
A detailed audit plan is received from Deloitte, which sets out the key risks identified.
For the 2013 financial year, the primary risks were in relation to acquisition accounting, impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, revenue recognition and recoverability of venue advances.
Deloitte provided the Committee with their views on these issues at the Committee meeting held to consider the financial statements.
In addition they undertook to provide the Committee with details of any identified matters greater than 40,000 and any other adjustments that were qualitatively significant which management had not corrected on the basisthat the matters were not, individually or in aggregate, material.
The effectiveness of the external audit process is currently assessed by the Committee based on discussions with those involved in the process.
Private meetings were held with Deloitte at both of the Audit Committee meetings which considered the financial statements in May and November to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditor without management being present.
Matters discussed were the preparedness and efficiency ofmanagement with respect to the audit, the strengths and any perceived weaknesses of the financial management team, confirmation that no restriction on scope had been placed on them by management and how they had exercised professional judgement.
The Chairman of the Committee also meets with the external audit partner outside the formal committee process through the year.
The Committee plans to complete a formal review of the effectiveness of the external audit process in January 2014. appointment and independence The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor, including the rotation of the audit partner each yearand also assesses their independence on an ongoing basis.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current audit partner was appointed this year.
He was selected from ashortlist of three suitable and available partner candidates provided by Deloitte LLP and based on interviews conducted separately by the Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee reviewed and endorsed their recommendation.
Deloitte LLP were first appointed by the Company in 2002.
Whilst the Group has not formally tendered the audit since then, the Committee has undertaken a review of the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process each year.
When considering the suitability of the external auditor, the Committee takes account of the ability of the auditor to deliver an audit across the geographies in which the Group operates.
In addition, considerable importance is placed on the findings set out in the Public Report on the most recent inspections of Deloitte carried out by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team and their reports on all other auditors in its sample.
The Committee notes the consistently good assessment of Deloitte against its peers.
When considering suitable external auditors the Committee also takes account of the ability of the auditor to add value through observations from the audit process and their interactions with management.
The Committee is cognisant of its responsibility under the revised Code to tender the audit every ten years and notes thatthis period can be extended to coincide with the period ending the current engagement partners rotation if longer.
The Committee plans to tender the audit in 2017 to take effect for year ending 30 September 2018, after the fiveyear rotation period of the current external audit partner, although this decision shall be reviewed annually.
For year ending 30September 2014, the Committee has provided to the Board its recommendation to the shareholders on the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as theGroups auditors.
During the year, Deloitte LLP and member firms of Deloitte LLP charged the Group 339,000 2012: 349,000 for audit and audit related services.
Nonaudit services To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor from becoming compromised, the Committee hasaformal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide nonaudit services.
No material changes have been made to this policy during the year.
In addition, nonaudit fees on any specific project cannot exceed 50,000 without the express approval of the Chair of the Committee, who must report to the Committee on the use of this delegated authority at the next committee meeting.
Our policy ensures that the Committee challenges the decision to use Deloitte LLP where suitable, practical and reasonablypriced alternatives exist.
In addition, the Committee considers the overall level of nonaudit fees and would notexpect these fees to be in aggregate greater than the audit fee.
Full details of the split between audit and nonaudit fees can be found in note 6 on page 93.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Governance aUdit coMMittee rePort continued committee evaluation The Committees activities formed part of the external review of Board effectiveness performed during the year.
Details of this process can be found under Board Effectiveness review on page 48. impact of competition commission report The Committee notes the latest guidance from the Financial Reporting Council following the report from the Competition Commission issued on 15 October 2013.
Amongst other things this requires the Audit Committee to: assume sole responsibility for audit matters such as agreeing audit scope and audit fees, advising the Board on the reappointment of external auditors and initiating tenders: initiate a new advisory vote on the Audit Committee report: tender the external audit at least once every ten years: note the increased frequency of reviews by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team and the public disclosure of the grade awarded following the review: and ensure compliance with the prohibition of Big Four only clauses in loan documentation.
The Committee has reviewed the guidance and will implement these recommendations as required for the 2014 financial year.
Michael Hartley chairman of the Audit committee 2 december 2013 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 54
