com Stock code: ITV Audit Committee Report In this report...
The purpose of this report is to highlight areas that the Committee has reviewed during the year, reporting back to shareholders the significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the Companys financial statements.
The report also notes any areas or specific topics, such as risk, that the Committee has reviewed.
Also highlighted is how the Committee has assisted the Board in reviewing the Companys internal control environment, and what the Committee has done to review the effectiveness of both internal and external auditors.
This year the report addresses the changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code by describing in more detail what the Committee does, and what processes and controls are in place to help ensure that the annual report presents a fair, balanced and understandable view of the business.
of a strong control environment across ITV and to ensure the integrity of the financial information provided to our shareholders.
We do this in the context of a business with ambitious plans and a growing international footprint.
We seek not just to respond to changes but to support and challenge management to develop controls as they anticipate future opportunities and risks.
As requested by the Board, the Committee has considered the processes and controls in place to help ensure that the annual report presents a fair, balanced and understandable view of the business.
As a result of this work the Committee concluded that the processes and controls were appropriate and was able to provide positive assurance to the Board.
In reporting to you, we have sought to respond to We seek not just to respond shareholders changing requirements and expectations of audit committees.
This is no doubt the start of to changes but to support improved communication between audit committees and and challenge management shareholders and we welcome feedback.
to develop controls as John Ormerod Chairman, Audit Committee they anticipate future 26 February 2014 opportunities and risk.
Dear Shareholder, On the following pages we set out the Audit Committees Who is on the Committee Report for 2013.
The report comprises four sections: The Committee is composed entirely of Non-executive Directors.
The current members are: How the Committee works John Ormerod Chairman What we focused on in 2013 Andy Haste Internal controls Lucy Neville-Rolfe appointed 1 May 2013 Our auditors Mike Clasper stepped down from the Board and as a member of the Committee on 31 December 2013.
Strong and effective risk management and control procedures underpin our ability to execute and implement Full details of attendance at committee meetings can be found in the table on page 70 our strategy.
The principal aims of the Committee are to support the maintenance and continuing development 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 75-81 Audit Committee Report.
indd 75 28 02 2014 12:26:38 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 76 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Audit Committee Report continued How the Committee works What is our role?
The Committee members have between them a wide range The role of the Committee includes to: of business and financial experience which enables the Committee to fulfil its terms of reference in a robust and monitor the integrity of the published financial independent manner.
The Committee considers that John information of the Company: Ormerod has recent and relevant financial experience for review and report to the Board on the significant the purposes of the Code.
financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the published Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including qualification and experience, are set out on pages 58 and 59 financial information of the Company having regard to matters communicated by the auditor : The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and internal and review the consistency of, ongoing appropriateness external auditors attended meetings during the course of of, and changes to, accounting policies, consider the the year at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
methods used to account for significant or unusual Members of the Management Board and other senior transactions: management have attended certain meetings by invitation.
review the effectiveness of the internal control and The Committee as a whole has regular private sessions risk management processes: with both internal and external auditors and also, when review the Groups whistleblowing process for appropriate, with the Group Finance Director.
employees: In addition, throughout the year the Chairman of the review and approve the internal audit plan: Committee has individual sessions with other Committee monitor and review the effectiveness and members and meets informally, and has open lines of independence of the internal audit function: communication, with the Group Finance Director, Head of internal audit and the senior engagement team from the monitor and review the effectiveness of external auditors.
This group generally meets ahead of each management in addressing internal and external full Committee meeting to prepare and identify key areas audit actions: for consideration by the Committee.
review the quality and effectiveness of the external audit and the procedures and controls designed to The Committee works to a structured programme of ensure auditor independence: activities with agenda items focused to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, themes or consider and make recommendations to the Board areas of risk that the Committee has identified, together in relation to the appointment, reappointment, with standing items that the Committee is required to replacement, and remuneration of the Companys consider regularly under its terms of reference.
Reports external auditor: and are provided by management, internal audit, and external where requested by the Board, provide advice on audit, addressing the key risks and reporting matters faced whether the annual report and accounts, taken as by the Group.
Following each meeting the Committee a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and communicates its main discussion points and findings to the provides the information necessary for shareholders Board.
to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In addition to formal meetings, from time to time, Committee members have informal briefings on topics The Committees terms of reference can be accessed relevant to the Committees work from members of the on our website.
operational and financial management teams and external auditor.
com about governance In reviewing the various topics on its agenda the Committee members receive input from management, internal audit and external audit as appropriate.
Committee members draw upon this and their own experience to provide a constructive challenge to the judgements made by management and consider alternative scenarios or accounting treatments in reaching their conclusions.
com Stock code: ITV The Group has a technology governance and assurance team What we focused on in 2013 who ensure a coordinated approach is in place to mitigate In planning its own agenda, and reviewing the audit plan the risks faced in technology.
In 2013 two key high risk areas of the internal and external auditor, the Committee takes were reviewed by the Committee: account of significant issues and risks, both operational and financial, likely to impact on the Companys financial As part of a wider end-to-end review of the broadcast statements.
The Committee also addresses specific queries transmission infrastructure including interaction referred to it by the Board or Remuneration Committee.
In with third party outsource providers, the incident 2013, the Remuneration Committee asked the Committee management and governance processes were to report by exception on significant unusual or nonrevisited, and a number of changes were agreed for recurring transactions which came to its attention and the implementation.
effect of which the Remuneration Committee may wish to There has been significant media coverage of the recent consider in connection with its assessment of remuneration.
increase in attacks on corporate infrastructure.
Examples An annual review of the performance of the Committee of such issues include the loss of customer data due to was conducted for the year.
In addition to feedback from hacking and the disruption of corporate social media members of the Committee, input was sought from the feeds.
In response to these cyber security threats, Group Finance Director, KPMG, internal audit and the the Committee discussed managements assurance Chairman of the Board.
Overall, the review concluded that plans around information security and technology the Committee is responding appropriately to its terms of infrastructure.
reference and will continue to develop its role.
Financial Reporting Below is a summary of some of the more significant risks As part of the Committees review of the interim and yearand issues discussed in the year by the Committee.
end financial statements, the following were discussed: During 2013 there were no topics where there was Complex discrete transactions in the year significant disagreement between management, our The Group completed certain transactions during the period external auditor and the Committee or unresolved issues which were outside the normal course of business.
The which needed to be referred to the Board.
Committee carefully reviewed these one-off transactions to ensure that the judgements applied by management Technology Risk were reasonable and any complex accounting guidance As the Group has progressed through the strategy, the followed correctly.
The topics discussed in the year technology infrastructure supporting the business has covered acquisitions, debt settlements and large property evolved to support the rebalancing of the business acquisitions.
opportunities from new revenue streams and the production business.
Legacy systems supporting the existing business Acquisition accounting see note 3.4 for details of remain in place, while emerging technology has been acquisitions : following the acquisition of four businesses adopted to support new opportunities.
It is therefore during the year, the Committee debated the accounting important to have in place an effective technology for the key areas of judgement: the determination of governance framework that seeks to address the risks posed whether ITV has control of the entity and should therefore by the Groups technology environment.
The governance consolidate its accounts in the Groups accounts, the framework, which is reviewed by the Committee, seeks presentation of performance-related contingent payments to identify and manage key risks and provide oversight or earn-out costs in the income statement, and determining and methodologies around governing change and major the fair values of the net assets acquired: projects.
Control: this was particularly relevant for acquisitions that were structured so that the Group acquired a majority In 2012 reviews by internal and external audit highlighted equity interest in a company, but less than 100%.
The a number of opportunities to improve the governance of Committee debated ITVs majority representation, our core systems.
The Committee and management agreed control of budgets and decision-making power on the a set of actions and a workplan to address these, most new boards and concluded that the Group does control of which were completed by the end of 2013.
Work will each of the businesses acquired.
continue to finalise remaining actions which will be kept Performance-related consideration and earnouts: the under review by the Committee and internal and external Groups acquisitions include an amount which is payable audit.
indd 77 28 02 2014 12:26:38 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 78 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Audit Committee Report continued based on future performance of the business.
Structuring Revenue: every year the Committee considers the acquisition this way helps manage risks in terms managements assessment of the Groups internal controls of initial capital outlay and creates a joint incentive framework, which includes control over revenue.
The Groups between ITV and the previous owners to grow the processes and controls around existing revenue streams, business.
This is a feature that is common for acquisitions such as NAR and Studios revenues, have remained consistent in the creative industry.
Where the payment is also and effective during the year.
linked to employment, IFRS requires it to be accrued As new revenue streams emerge which has been seen in as a remuneration operating cost over the period to areas such as the Online, Pay & Interactive business the payment.
The Committee debated the presentation of Committee reviews policies adopted by management the transaction and concluded that these costs are linked to recognise revenue and considers the related controls.
to a capital transaction and their size and nature warrants The policies and controls adopted in 2013 are consistent them being excluded from underlying earnings adjusted with prior years and are considered appropriate by the profit.
Once acquired and the earnout period has been Committee.
No changes have occurred during the year.
completed, operational salary and bonuses payable to the Deal debt: deal debt is where management provides for sellers are treated as part of operating costs.
over under delivery of advertising value to agencies.
The Intangibles: the Committee reviewed the results of Committee reviews managements approach and method of the exercise to allocate the purchase price between determining the provision required and ensures consistency intangible assets and goodwill and agreed with is applied in estimating inputs.
The Committee is satisfied managements allocation.
that the provision has been calculated on a consistent basis Debt settlements: as part of managements continued with prior years.
efforts to improve the balance sheet and remove remaining Royalty accruals: the Group is required to make royalty expensive debt, the Group repurchased significant debt payments for content broadcast and distributed.
Accounting for these repurchases, though payments are in accordance with individual contracts, complex, required little judgement.
However, due to the and the large variety of terms results in a complex and significant loss of 61 million the Committee sought manual process.
As part of the agreed 2013 plan, internal to ensure the accounting standards had been applied audit reviewed the controls around the royalty accrual correctly.
The Committee considered the source of the process without significant finding.
As with previous years, inputs management used in calculating the amount of loss the Committee considered the estimated accrual to be to be recognised and concluded that the accounting was reasonable.
Acquisition of the London Television Centre: the Group Pension accounting: the Groups defined benefit pension acquired its headquarters in January.
The Committee scheme is a significant liability on the Groups balance sheet discussed the analysis undertaken by management to see note 3.7 and the value of the scheme will fluctuate allocate the purchase price between the value of the land due to changes in underlying assumptions.
The main and building, which is required by the new accounting assumptions which drive these fluctuations include the standard on fair value measurements.
Real estate forecast bond yield rates and the forecast inflation rate.
A consultants were engaged to provide an estimate of the particular feature affecting 2013 has been the valuation of land value.
The Committee considered the results of the a longevity swap.
A recent change to IFRS has required the exercise and agreed with managements allocation swap to be recorded at fair value on a different basis from see note 3.2. the best estimate of value on which the swap was previously recorded.
The Committee considered both the process Recurring transactions in the year management undertook to finalise the assumptions, and There are a number of areas where the Group transacts how these assumptions benchmark against the market.
In as part of its business as usual.
However, these areas may particular, because of the size of the valuation adjustment to require the application of judgement by management or the longevity swap of 95 million, the Committee confirmed have underlying complexity that should be considered on an the changes in IFRS had been appropriately applied with ongoing basis by the Committee.
Consequently, the topics our auditors and the sources of information on which the noted below are regularly reviewed by the Committee: recorded valuation was based.
The Committee concluded that that the process was robust and the resulting calculation appropriately balanced.
com Stock code: ITV Tax: the Group recognises certain provisions and accruals Strategy and financial reporting: the strategy is in respect of tax.
The Committee debates the nature and reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group performs key risks which give rise to corporate tax, payroll and VAT a comprehensive annual strategy review and five year issues, and discusses the activities management undertake financial planning exercise.
The five-year plan feeds into to resolve the matters that give rise to such provisions.
The Executive Directors review Where support from our tax advisers is received, the results formal forecasts, detailed budgets, strategies and action and views of their work are also reviewed.
The Committee plans and the Board approves the overall Group budget as concluded that the provisions at the year-end were part of its normal responsibilities.
The results of operating appropriate see note 2.3. units are reported monthly, along with an update of the Groups performance against strategic KPIs and cash.
Risk Management Actual results are compared to budget and forecasts, and The Committee continued to consider the process for key trends and variances are explained and analysed.
managing risk within the business.
Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: Every year the Board and senior management review and the Group has an established organisational structure challenge the Groups High Impact Low Likelihood HILL with clearly stated lines of responsibility, approval levels risks, and the strategic risks.
Each risk is assigned an owner and delegated authorities.
and has a series of mitigating actions identified.
An updated Risk assessment and management: management is list of risks is included within the Strategic Report on pages responsible for identifying the risks facing the business 53 to 55. and for establishing controls and procedures to monitor For each HILL risk the Committee reviewed the Groups and mitigate those risks.
current level of exposure and considered the appropriateness The Board is responsible for establishing a robust risk of the mitigating actions being taken by management.
management process and for regularly reviewing the identified risks.
The Committee keeps the effectiveness The Committee also considered managements response to of the process under regular review.
each strategic risk, including the level of assurance provided around the risk and how the risk is tracked using key risk Control environment: financial controls, policies, and indicators.
With regard to process risks the Committee procedures are considered as part of the Groups ongoing reviewed how effective management was in addressing the risk assessment process.
These controls are reviewed findings of internal and external audit, as well as the method to ensure risks are identified and the processes and by which management accepted process risks.
procedures are in accordance with and aligned to the strategy.
The internal audit team provides objective The Committee was comfortable with the processes in place assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems for risk management, that the internal audit plan for 2014 of internal control and risk management, reporting to was aligned to the highlighted risks and with those process both the Management Board and the Committee.
risks that have been accepted.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Read more on risk management in the Risks and Uncertainties internal controls: controls are monitored by senior section on page 52 management, internal audit and the Committee.
Remedial plans are put in place where controls are weak Internal controls or there are opportunities for improvement.
Serious The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups control weaknesses if any are reported to the Board and systems of internal control and for regularly reviewing the actions taken as appropriate.
The Committee assists the Data analytics: during the year the Group implemented a Board in reviewing the Groups systems of internal control.
suite of automated analytics tests that enables the Group The primary responsibility for the operation of these to continuously highlight exceptions from the norm systems is delegated to management.
Such systems can over its transactional financial data.
Going forward, this only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against will make the control environment stronger and more material misstatement or loss.
Key control procedures are efficient.
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can be summarised as follows: 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 75-81 Audit Committee Report.
indd 79 28 02 2014 12:26:39 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 80 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Audit Committee Report continued The principal planned changes agreed were that: Our auditors Internal auditor the scope of the external audit will consider The Groups internal audit activity is outsourced to Deloitte developments in certain areas of the business earlier than who report directly to the Committee.
The Committee keeps otherwise might have been considered necessary on a under review the internal audit relationship with Deloitte traditional assessment of financial materiality, such as and the procedures to ensure appropriate independence of certain online revenues and controls over and at smaller the internal audit function is maintained.
In particular, the overseas acquisitions : and Committee has approved guidelines in relation to other the data analytics implemented by management as part advisory and consultancy work that Deloitte may undertake of the internal control initiatives will allow for all year for the Company, which adheres to the underlying principle round routine audit tests through exception reporting, that they cannot implement controls that they audit.
making the control environment both stronger and more During the year Deloitte provided the Group with advice efficient.
Further, the embedded technology will support on remuneration policy and the external remuneration internal and external audits systems evaluation and environment.
Other services included tax and corporate testing.
The Committee continues to monitor the implementation of The effectiveness of internal audit is assessed over the year these changes.
using a number of measures which include but are not limited to : Auditor effectiveness Audit quality is reviewed throughout the year with the focus an evaluation of each audit assignment completed using on: strong audit governance: the firms methodology and feedback from the part of the business that has been its effective application to ITV: robustness of challenges and audited: and findings on areas which require management judgement: a high level annual review that is completed by obtaining and the quality of the senior members of the audit team.
feedback from senior management in each division.
In particular, the effectiveness of the audit is assessed over At the start of the year the Committee considered and the year using a number of measures including but not approved the internal audit plan, which included audits limited to : across the Group as well as assurance over live projects.
reviewing the quality and scope of planning of the audit During the year the Committee reviewed findings from and its responsiveness to changes in our business: these internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement the recommendations made in the reports and the status of implementation of planned improvements identified in progress against previously agreed actions.
All internal audit the audit tender process: reports are available to the Committee as required.
monitoring the independence and transparency of the audit: External auditor Auditor engagement reviewing the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Throughout the year the Committee receives reports from Review AQR reports for KPMG and other audit firms: and the auditors on their plans and the progress and results of seeking feedback from KPMG on any external or internal their work.
quality review of our audit.
The Committee considers carefully the scope of planned At the conclusion of each years audit the Committee work and the assessment of risk and materiality on which it performs a specific evaluation of the performance of is based.
In particular the Committee reviews the audit fee the external auditor.
This is supported by the results of arrangements to ensure that there is an appropriate balance questionnaires completed by the Executive Directors and between the scope of work and the cost of assurance.
The relevant senior management, both finance and non-finance, Committees aim is to support a robust and effective audit covering areas such as quality of audit team, business and strong reporting lines to the Committee.
understanding, audit approach and management.
Where appropriate, actions are agreed against the points raised In 2012 the Committee conducted a tender process for and subsequently monitored for progress.
There were no external audit services, the main outcome of which was the significant findings from the evaluation this year and the reappointment of KPMG, and a plan for the development of Committee considers the external audit to have been robust the external audit approach over a two to three year period.
com Stock code: ITV Independence, objectivity and fees The significant non-audit engagements related to VAT and The Committee seeks to ensure the objectivity and corporate tax services, including tax advice.
Significant independence of our auditors through: engagements require the prior approval of the Chairman of the Committee.
focus on the assignment and rotation of key personnel: Reappointment the adequacy of audit resource: and During the year the Committee considered the performance policies in relation to non-audit work.
and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of nonThe senior audit partner serves no more than five years audit work undertaken, and recommended to the Board continuously and the independent review partner serves that a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc no more than seven years continuously.
Other key partners for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to serve for no longer than seven consecutive years.
The shareholders at the AGM in May 2013.
The resolution was Committee monitors the tenure of partners and senior staff passed and KPMG Audit Plc was reappointed for a further as well as former employees working for the Company.
appointment by the Company of former senior employees KPMG has instigated an orderly wind-down of KPMG Audit of the external auditor would require approval of the Plc as a result of an internal reorganisation and requested Committee.
that going forward the audit is instead undertaken by KPMG The Committee regularly monitors the other services LLP an intermediate parent of KPMG Audit Plc.
KPMG Audit being provided to the Group by its external auditor, and has Plc will not therefore be seeking re-appointment as auditor developed a formal policy to ensure this does not impair of the Company and in accordance with the Companies Act their independence or objectivity.
The policy is based on 2006, a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP the five key principles which underpin the provision of other as our auditor will be put to the 2014 AGM.
services by the external auditor.
These are that the auditor may not provide a service which: places them in a position to audit their own work: creates a mutuality of interest: results in the auditor developing close personal relationships with ITV employees: results in the auditor functioning as a manager or employee of ITV: or puts the auditor in the role of advocate for ITV.
The policy is reviewed annually and is available in full on our website.
com about governance Other than in exceptional circumstances management and the Committee do not expect non-audit fees to be in excess of fees for audit and audit related services.
The non-audit fees for 2013 were half that of the audit fees.
A report on the level of non-audit work provided by the auditor is given to the Committee half yearly.
No changes have been made to the policy during the year.
Details of the related audit and other services are set out in note 2.1 on page 123 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 75-81 Audit Committee Report.
indd 81 28 02 2014 12:26:39 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview
