68 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Corporate Governance How the Board works What have we focused Our role The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for delivering on during 2013?
the long-term success of the Company by: providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: UK and international content strategy supporting the executive team to formulate and execute Broadcast strategy the Companys long-term objectives and strategy, ensuring that the necessary financial and other resources Risk appetite, prole and mitigation are in place for the Company to meet its objectives, and Five year strategy review reviewing management performance: and Succession planning setting the Companys values and standards and ensuring Governance and board performance that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
There is a schedule of specific matters reserved to the Board for decision which is available on our website.
com about governance Our meetings The number of meetings held during the year and attendance of Directors is set out in the table on page 70.
The Board agrees an annual schedule of matters it Next iteration of the five year strategy wishes to consider at each of its meetings and those of Pension investment strategy its committees.
The schedule ensures that all relevant Property strategy matters are considered and receive appropriate attention.
Risk appetite, prole and mitigation Meetings are normally held at one of the London sites and Succession planning at least once a year they are held at one of the regional or international offices.
Board meetings are structured around Governance and Board performance the following areas: Operational and functional updates Financial updates Strategy and risk Progress against strategy Other reporting and items for approval Feedback from committees Senior executives and other colleagues are regularly invited to attend meetings for specific items.
In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, meetings take place between: Board members and Management Board members Chairman and Non-executive Directors Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 68-74 Corporate Governance.
com Stock code: ITV Our Governance structure Board Chairman, two Executive Directors, and five non-executive Directors Remuneration Committee Chairman and two Management Board General Purpose Non-executive Directors Senior executives of Group Committee functions and divisional Executive Directors businesses Audit Committee Three Non-executive Directors Divisional Boards Disclosure Committee Executive Directors and Executive Directors and other senior executives of divisional Nomination Committee Senior Managers businesses Chairman and Non-executive Directors Details of Board membership during 2013 is set out on page 70.
The diagram above shows ITVs governance structure.
As recommended by the Code, there will be resolutions to elect or re-elect each of the Directors at the AGM in The Board has approved a formal framework for the May 2014. approval of expenditure within the Company around this governance structure.
Non-executive Directors are expected to commit at least 18 to 20 days per annum to the Company and the Board is Who is on our Board and how we work as a team satisfied that each of the Non-executive Directors commits Composition and appointments sufficient time to the business of the Company.
An outline of In June 2013 the Board appointed Sir Peter Bazalgette as a the terms of engagement for the Non-executive Directors Non-executive Director.
Peter was selected from a number can be found on our website.
The Board felt that Peters wealth of experience in media consultancy, digital media and as www.
com about governance a former television producer would be an asset to the Board assisting with the execution of the business strategy.
Skills and experience Executive search firm, JCA Group, were engaged to assist There are job descriptions in place for each of the Chairman, with the rigorous selection process.
JCA Group have no other the Chief Executive, and the Senior Independent Director connection with ITV.
which have been agreed by the Board.
Mike Clasper completed seven years as a Non-executive Director in January 2013 and was asked by the Board to Biographical details for the Directors are set out on pages 58 and 59. continue in this position for a further twelve month period.
He stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2013.
Andy Haste was appointed as Senior Independent Director in his place.
indd 69 28 02 2014 12:26:02 Financials Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 70 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Corporate Governance continued The Board is still of the view that the Non-executive Directors are independent in both character and judgement.
They constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
The Board works well together bringing strong, independent, balanced judgement, knowledge, and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Each non-executive Director has appropriate skills and experience that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
Board and Committee membership and attendance at meetings in 2013 Scheduled meetings shown in black and ad hoc meetings shown in orange.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Date of appointment Status Notes to the Board 11 1 2 1 5 1 5 2 Peter Bazalgette Independent 1 1 June 2013 7 1 1 Mike Clasper Independent SID 3 January 2006 11 1 2 1 5 1 5 1 Adam Crozier Executive 26 April 2010 11 1 Roger Faxon Independent 3 31 October 2012 11 1 1 1 Ian Griffiths Executive 9 September 2008 11 1 Andy Haste Independent 11 August 2008 11 1 2 1 5 1 5 1 Lucy Neville-Rolfe Independent 2, 3 3 September 2010 11 1 1 1 4 2 Archie Norman Independent Chairman 1 January 2010 11 1 2 1 5 1 John Ormerod Independent 18 January 2008 11 1 2 1 5 1 5 2 1.
Peter Bazalgette joined the Board on 1 June 2013.
Four of the 11 scheduled Board meetings were held prior to his appointment.
Lucy Neville-Rolfe was appointed to the Audit Committee on 1 May 2013 and so did not attend the meeting held prior to this.
Non-attendance at Nomination Committee was due to Board meeting overrun and unavoidable other commitments.
Board Committees consider succession planning for Directors and other The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its senior executives: and committees.
The terms of reference for each committee are consider and review any conflicts of interest that may be reviewed annually and the current versions are available on reported by the Directors.
In addition to considering matters under its terms of reference, the Committee considered candidates for a www.
com about governance Non-executive Director appointment.
The Committee also reviewed a detailed succession planning framework and Audit Committee undertook an annual review of conflicts of interest.
See the Audit Committee Report on page 75 Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found in the table above.
Remuneration Committee The Company also has the following Committees: See the Remuneration Report on page 82 General Purpose Committee: the Committee is composed of the Executive Directors.
The Committee meets as required to conduct the Companys business within the Nomination Committee clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to The Committee is composed of the Non-executive Directors.
those matters reserved to the Board.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to: Disclosure Committee: the Committee is composed of review the structure, size, and composition of the Board, the Executive Directors and other members of the senior including skills, knowledge and experience: management team.
The function of the Committee, in identify and nominate for Board approval candidates to accordance with the Companys Inside Information Policy, is fill Board vacancies: to ensure compliance with continuing obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
com Stock code: ITV Succession planning Effectiveness The Board has agreed a succession planning framework to Evaluation ensure that: The Board has established an ongoing evaluation and development process.
The process focuses on roles and board tenure is appropriate and encourages fresh thinking responsibilities, culture, balance of skills and experience, and new ideas: diversity and how the Board works together.
In particular, it the Board is sufficiently diverse but most importantly has focuses on how effective the Directors are in assisting the the appropriate mix of generalist and specialist skills: and executive team in achievement of the strategy.
Non-executive Directors have the appropriate level of At the end of 2012 the Board embarked on a comprehensive independence, from the executive and each other.
Board Development Programme facilitated by Gurnek When planning succession within the Company Bain of YSC, a global firm of business psychologists.
This consideration is given to emergency cover together with included a rigorous assessment of performance, agreement medium and long-term succession.
There is particular on the Boards aspirations for itself and identification of emphasis on growing the internal leadership pipeline steps required to achieve its objectives.
Over the past 12 through the launch of the following key programmes: months each board member has had access to feedback and advice from YSC to help develop their own performance Executive Development Programme for next generation and the Board has held a number of collective discussions potential board successors giving them an opportunity to to review and agree on progress.
At the end of the process develop their management potential and gain a greater further feedback was given and a programme for future understanding of the business.
It is ITV policy to ensure that Developing Future Leaders Programme for delegates all board members have continued access to coaching, selected from across the business identified as a result feedback and support, and a further healthcheck review will of the performance review process.
Content includes be undertaken on the anniversary of the completion of the understanding what it means to be a leader at ITV, how programme in 2014. to manage performance effectively, coaching skills and YSC have also been involved in supporting the review of change management.
the board make up and composition.
They have no other Graduate Programme.
Succession planning and diversity A comprehensive portfolio of development courses and Board tenure workshops for all colleagues which address common All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of development needs is in place.
Association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board.
Subsequently, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders as recommended by the Code.
indd 71 28 02 2014 12:26:03 Financials Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 72 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Corporate Governance continued Diversity Induction It is the Boards policy to retain a strong but relatively The Company has a policy and programme for induction small board bringing a balance of in depth commercial and continuing professional development of Directors.
Although given the size of the appointment, each Director takes part in a comprehensive Board specific formulaic targets are not appropriate it is induction programme where they: our intention to increase the gender and ethnic diversity of receive information about the Group in the form of board membership as opportunities arise.
presentations by executives from all parts of the business Diversity within the organisation is integral to achieving and on the regulatory environment: our business aims.
Reflecting the demographics of our meet representatives of the Companys key advisers: customers and understanding their needs ensures that our receive information about the role of the Board and the brand, services and products are accessible, inclusive and matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference have wide appeal.
and membership of Board committees and the powers The Companys aim is to represent our society both within delegated to those committees: the organisation and on-screen.
Year-on-year progress has receive information about the Companys corporate been achieved in working towards this target.
Key activity in governance practices and procedures and the latest 2013 included: financial information about the Group: and Diversity awareness training for line managers, are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations supervisors and programme makers.
as a director of a listed company.
Sustaining programme portrayal monitoring across 75% This is supplemented by visits to key locations, including of our programmes.
studios and regional sites, and meetings with key senior executives and with major shareholders where appropriate.
Workshops across the country to support future generations of diverse talent from Black, Asian, Minority Ethnics and individuals with disabilities.
The key stages of the induction programme are: Developing and maintaining partnerships with external Stage one Matters covered organisations to support and recognise diverse talent.
For Provision of documents Duties of a Director, board procedures, board and example, partnering with the inaugural Asia Media Awards strategy papers and corporate and working with government to deliver the first ever governance Disability Confident conference to FTSE 100 companies.
Stage two Matters covered Meeting with Chief Executive Business overview, current and Group Finance Director trading and key commercial issues Meetings with Non-executive Open discussion forums Directors Meetings with Management Commercial issues and Board members and other projects senior executives Stage three Matters covered Site visits Understanding of the business and operations Additional specific induction programmes are in place when Non-executive Directors join committees.
com Stock code: ITV Continuing professional development Relations with shareholders During their period in office, the Directors are continually The Board attaches a high priority to effective updated on the Groups businesses and the competitive and communication with shareholders and has regular and regulatory environments in which they operate.
This is done open dialogue with our institutional investors.
The Board through: believes that continued engagement with our shareholders is beneficial to both ITV and its stakeholders as it helps updates and papers which cover changes affecting the to build a greater understanding of investors views, Group and the market in which it operates: opinions and concerns.
Adam Crozier, Ian Griffiths and meetings with senior executives across the Group and key our investor relations team meet with many institutional advisers: investors throughout the year to keep them updated on regular updates on changes to the legal and governance the Companys performance and the Transformation requirements of the Group and in relation to their own Plan.
These range from one-to-one meetings to group position as Directors: and presentations including the Full year and Interim results and presentations given at board and committee meetings the AGM.
Specifically, following the Full year and Interim on business matters and technical update sessions from results one-to-one meetings are held with our largest external advisers where appropriate.
The Chairman responds to shareholder queries and holds As part of their professional development Executive meetings where appropriate.
Directors may accept external appointments as nonexecutive directors of other companies and retain any The Company maintains a programme of engagement related fees paid to them.
For further information on board with the investment community, including the results development see the Evaluation section on page 71. presentations, briefings to brokers and other sales forces and attendance at a number of investor conferences.
Conflicts of interest Presentations given to the investment community are The Board has delegated the authorisation of conflicts to available to download from our website.
the Nomination Committee and has adopted a Conflicts of Interest Policy.
com investors The Board has considered in detail the current external appointments of the Directors which may give rise to a We regularly seek feedback on the perception of the situational conflict and has authorised potential conflicts Company amongst shareholders and the investor where appropriate.
community more broadly via our corporate brokers.
Investor This authorisation can be reviewed at any time but will comments are fed back to the Board and its committees always be subject to annual review.
The Board is confident regularly.
that these procedures operate effectively.
The Company considers annually whether it is appropriate to Insurance and indemnities commission an investor audit.
No audit was undertaken The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors in 2013. and officers which is renewed on an annual basis.
The Private shareholders represent more than 95% of our Company has also entered into deeds of indemnity with shareholders holding 3.36% of our shares.
A copy of the indemnity can be found on our shareholders to register their email addresses to receive website.
information from us in a timely manner.
com about governance 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 68-74 Corporate Governance.
indd 73 28 02 2014 12:26:03 Financials Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 74 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Corporate Governance continued Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held on 14 May 2014 further details can be found on page 65.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions being proposed.
The Notice, together with any related documents, is made available to shareholders on or website or is mailed to them, if they have elected to receive hard copies, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Last year all resolutions were passed with votes ranging from 93% to 100%.
com investors  In 2013 the meeting was attended by 131 shareholders.
Shareholders are invited to meet the Directors prior to and after the formal proceedings.
At the meeting the Chairman and Chief Executive will review the Groups current trading which is followed by a question and answer session.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and all resolutions are taken on a poll.
The level of votes lodged on each resolution is made available on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website as soon as possible after the meeting.
com investors  Shareholders who are not able to attend the meeting can vote online in advance via our website or by completing and returning a form of proxy.
Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board will attend the AGM.
