Governance Corporate governance statement David Tyler, Chairman Dear Shareholder, This has been another good year for Sainsburys.
We have made progress on many different fronts.
I firmly believe that our strong and established governance described in the following pages has played an important part in our progress.
Sainsburys has again this year complied with all provisions of the UK We have made further change by appointing one of our established Corporate Governance Code.
Non-Executive Directors, Mary Harris, as Chairman of our Remuneration Committee.
Marys first letter to you in her new role is set out on We take succession at Board and senior management level very page 54.
There has never been more external focus on executive seriously and we believe that we have a good record of identifying the remuneration in the UKs largest companies.
Under Marys leadership resourcing needs of the business, developing our own people, attracting the Remuneration Committee has ensured that our consistent efforts external talent and planning and implementing change over a number to ensure a direct link between pay and performance in the areas most of years.
valued by our shareholders have contributed to building a focused leadership team.
I have referred to our Board and management team changes in my introductory statement.
Our new appointees during the year, Jean The Board received a broad range of presentations from the senior Tomlin at plc level, and Angie Risley on the Operating Board, are already management team during the year see below, one of which was on bringing new skills and experience to our established teams.
We know that setting the right culture and following the announcement that we plan to acquire the 50 per cent values throughout the business really helps to drive customer service of Sainsburys Bank that we currently do not own, we are pleased that and sales.
As a Board, we take our own culture very seriously and Lady Susan Rice will join the Board on 1 June 2013 as a Non-Executive always review it as part of our annual evaluation.
Susan has wide experience as a Non-Executive Director external review of our performance in 2011 when Manchester Square and her career in retail banking is particularly relevant in light of our Partners confirmed that the Board was seen as effective, with a number announcement about our plans to take full ownership of Sainsburys of specific strengths as regards ethics, organisation, information and Bank.
I am sure she will make a very strong contribution to the Board.
We have looked to build on these strengths to ensure that we have a consistent culture throughout the business.
This years Jean, Angie and Susan will also add to our broad diversity which has evaluation, carried out internally, concluded that we have shared values always been one of Sainsburys strengths.
As set out below, we have and a common purpose and are able to debate matters openly and a high proportion of women in Board and senior positions who have honestly, with a high degree of trust and integrity.
been appointed on merit throughout the organisation.
From 1 June, we will have three women on our Board 30 per cent, exceeding the We believe that our strong culture and values will continue to hold aspirational target of the Davies report that 25 per cent of board us in good stead for the future.
positions at FTSE 100 companies should be filled by women by 2015.
I am delighted that Jean Tomlin has taken on the role of Chairman of our Corporate Responsibility CR Committee.
The Board takes CR very seriously as it is an integral part of Sainsburys business.
I am sure that Jeans unique experience and breadth of skills will be a great addition to the Board and provide inspirational leadership of the Committee.
Sainsburys was one of the first companies to establish a CR Committee David Tyler at plc level, reflecting the key role that our five values play in achieving Chairman our vision to be the most trusted retailer where people love to work and shop.
Jeans first letter to shareholders is on page 43.
38 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Board was fully involved in the decision to acquire full ownership Compliance of Sainsburys Bank, announced in May 2013.
In-depth reviews The following sections explain how the Company applies the main were presented at a number of meetings setting out the strategic principles of Section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the opportunity, the risks and the funding options, together with the Code.
The Board is committed to strong governance and, during related regulatory requirements.
In June 2012 the Board held one of its the year, the Company has complied with all the provisions of scheduled meetings at Sainsburys Banks offices in Edinburgh which the Code.
provided the opportunity to meet the Banks leadership team and senior management, and to review the Banks operations and product range.
The role of the Board Performance management and operational matters The Board is chaired by David Tyler and, at the year-end, there were Performance against delivery of the agreed key targets is reviewed three Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
John at every meeting with particular reference to the detailed Group McAdam is the Senior Independent Director.
The Directors biographical management accounts.
The Chief Executive, Group Commercial Director details are set out on page 35.
Susan Rice will join the Board as a Nonand Chief Financial Officer comment on the market and current trading Executive Director with effect from 1 June 2013. at each meeting and present comparative data and customer insight.
The Boards key focus in helping to create long-term sustainable value One of the Boards key roles is to ensure that Sainsburys unique values for shareholders is on strategic leadership, performance management, and strong culture are safeguarded so that they remain at the heart investor relations, risk management, governance and succession of the Companys success, as they have been throughout the last 144 planning, each of which is described below.
The Board has a scheduled years.
The Board reviewed our colleague engagement in September, forward programme of meetings to ensure that we can allocate as our colleagues are key to our success.
The Board was pleased that sufficient time to each of these key areas.
This enables us to plan Sainsburys was a sponsor of the Paralympics and was delighted to host Board and Committee meetings appropriately and use the time most a reception for over 130 of our key suppliers and other stakeholders to effectively.
There is sufficient flexibility in the programme for specific mark the successful partnership.
items to be added to any particular agenda and this ensures that the Board can focus on the key matters relating to the business at the Risk management appropriate time.
The Board reviews the Companys principal risks on an annual basis, in addition to receiving regular updates on risk management and The Boards scheduled forward programme includes the following items, internal controls from the Chairman of the Audit Committee after each some of which are considered at each meeting and others are reviewed Committee meeting.
The Board also receives an annual update on all periodically throughout the year: matters relating to safety, supported by quarterly updates, together with updates on relevant controls and governance.
Any specific Annual budget Dividend policy and Customer insights issues on these and other matters which might affect the Companys reputation are reported to the Board as they occur.
See page 48 for recommendations Corporate plan Pensions further details.
Committee reports CEO Report and Project updates trading update Investor relations Investor relations Treasury Turning to investor relations IR, the Board receives an annual Financial items Strategic items Governance independent survey at the Strategy Conference from Makinson Cowell which reports on the views of major shareholders and analysts, Preliminary and Safety reports Risk management Interim results Health & Safety together with updates at each Board meeting on the IR programme and feedback from major shareholders, particularly following each major and Food Board evaluation Annual Report announcement of the Companys results.
See page 42 for further details.
There are also a number of informal meetings of the Board, which Succession planning Nomination Committee enable all the Directors to spend more time together and to discuss The Board takes succession planning for both Board members and specific areas of the business with individual Operating Board members.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are members of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by David Our annual Board evaluation exercise enables us to review whether Tyler.
Justin King is not a member of the Committee although he is Board meetings are structured with a clear focus on the key issues invited to attend meetings.
facing the Company, with a full and open debate before major decisions are taken.
We ensure that all Directors are aware of the key discussions As stated below, our Board evaluations consider the balance, skills and decisions of each of the four principal Committees the Chairman and diversity of the Board.
They also consider succession planning, of each Committee provides a detailed summary to all Directors at the reviewing whether it is working effectively.
The evaluation reviews any Board meeting following the relevant Committee meeting.
Minutes senior appointment processes during the year and identifies priorities of Board and Committee meetings are circulated to Directors shortly for the year ahead.
after those meetings take place.
The Board has a schedule of formally reserved powers, which it reviews each year, and receives a number of The changes to the Board which have been announced during the year in-depth presentations during the year.
are part of the succession planning process.
In May 2012, we announced that Bob Stack had decided to stand down from the Board with Strategic leadership effect from our Annual General Meeting AGM in July.
Mary Harris, The Board continued to focus on strategic matters during the year.
who joined the Remuneration Committee in July 2011, then became We hold a two-day Strategy Conference in the autumn, which the Chairman of the Committee.
The Nomination Committee instructed Operating Board Directors attend.
This enables the Board to conduct an consultancy Egon Zehnder in connection with the recruitment of a in-depth review of relevant economic factors and their likely impact on new Non-Executive Director.
The Committee considered the balance of customers and the market, to evaluate key opportunities and threats, skills, experience and diversity on the Board in determining the types consider the corporate plan and agree the strategic goals for the of candidate who might best fit the specification of this role.
The Board short-term and longer term perspectives, and the five areas of focus were delighted to be able to appoint Jean Tomlin as a Non-Executive described on pages 10 to 21.
The Board receives a detailed half-year Director on 1 January 2013. update on progress against the agreed priorities and then, to complete the cycle in July, agrees the objectives and principal areas of focus for the next conference.
Specific projects are considered at other meetings during the year as necessary.
Our 2013 Board evaluation exercise concluded that the Board continued to make good progress in driving the strategic debate during the year.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 39 Governance Corporate governance statement continued We believe we have a good balance and diversity amongst our NonMale Female Executive Directors with several having deep experience of consumer Board 70% 30% facing businesses and other highly relevant skills partly derived from Operating Board 73% 27% serving in a range of major executive and non-executive positions throughout their careers.
Following the appointment of Jean Tomlin, Senior executive positions 68% 32% our Non-Executive Directors tenure on our Board as at the year-end Company 46% 54% is as follows: Division of responsibilities Board tenure Number Percentage There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been approved by the 01 years 1 17 Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring 23 years 2 33 its effectiveness and setting its agenda to enable the Board to fulfil all aspects of its role.
As set out above, we ensure that the Board has 45 years 1 17 sufficient time to allocate to its key areas of focus throughout the annual 68 years 2 33 cycle of Board meetings.
The Chairman ensures effective communication The above table includes the Chairman.
with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates the contribution of the Non-Executive Following the announcement that we plan to acquire the 50 per cent Directors through a culture of openness and debate, and ensures of Sainsburys Bank that we currently do not own, Susan Rice will join constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
the Board on 1 June 2013 as a Non-Executive Director.
Egon Zehnder facilitated the recruitment process that led to Susans appointment.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company, and executing the strategy, once agreed by the Board.
At the time of the annual Strategy Conference the Committee reviews He creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives succession plans for the Operating Board, as well as Divisional Director to ensure the successful delivery of results, and allocates decision development, talent management and the graduate programme.
He takes a leading role, with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external agencies and in The Committees terms of reference are available on the website and promoting Sainsburys.
set out the Committees responsibilities.
The Committee meets on such occasions as are necessary and in 2012 13 held five meetings in total, Independence particularly relating to the process which led to Jean Tomlins appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the website experience to Board and Committee deliberations.
they confirm that they will have sufficient time available to be able to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
They are appointed for an Diversity initial three-year term, subject to election by shareholders at the first Fairness, diversity and inclusion are a core part of our values and AGM after their appointment, after which their appointment may be heritage at Sainsburys.
For more information on our progress, see extended for further terms, subject to mutual agreement.
All members A great place to work on page 25.
We continue to work to ensure of the Board will retire by rotation and seek re-election by shareholders that colleagues from all backgrounds can progress in their careers.
at this years AGM in accordance with the Code.
As part of A great place to work the Company has well-developed The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his policies for fair and equal treatment of all colleagues.
We encourage appointment to the Board in October 2009 and all the Non-Executive applications from all backgrounds to ensure a diverse and inclusive Directors are considered to be independent according to the provisions workforce.
It is our policy that people with disabilities are given full and of the Code.
The Board has specifically considered the executive or just consideration for vacancies and over the year we have conducted non-executive roles that some of the Non-Executive Directors have with a number of training sessions to raise awareness and understanding of companies who may be in competition with, or suppliers to, Sainsburys.
our customers and colleagues with disabilities and how we can better The Board is satisfied that the independence of the Directors who support them.
If a colleague were to become disabled while working have executive or non-executive roles with other companies is not for Sainsburys we are committed to making reasonable adjustments compromised and that they all have sufficient time available to devote to support them.
Under the banner of You Can, the Company also to the Company.
actively works with a number of organisations which seek to promote employment for disadvantaged persons and inclusion within the Directors conflicts of interest workplace.
One of our 20x20 Sustainability Plan commitments is that by The Companies Act 2006 provides that directors must avoid a situation 2020 we will provide 30,000 people from disadvantaged groups with where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, work opportunities.
These include Job Centre Plus, A Fairer Chance, or possibly may conflict, with a companys interests.
Directors of public Shaw Trust, Remploy and Mencap.
Sainsburys is a Gold partner of the companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where Business Disability Forum.
The Company also has a flexible working appropriate, if a companys articles of association permit.
Shareholders and carers policy making it possible for colleagues to achieve a balance approved the appropriate amendments to the Companys Articles at the between work and home.
Further details of Sainsburys diversity policy 2008 AGM.
The Board has established procedures for the disclosure can be found at www.
Our focus for the year by Directors of any such conflicts, and also for the consideration and ahead is on gender and race equality in employment, and a legacy of authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
In accordance with the inclusion following our sponsorship of the 2012 Paralympics.
Act, the Board considered and authorised each Directors reported potential conflicts of interest during the year.
Whenever a Director takes One of our strengths is the diversity that results from having a high on additional external responsibilities, the Board considers any potential proportion of women in senior management positions and throughout conflicts that may arise and whether the Director continues to have the organisation who have been appointed on merit.
Following the sufficient time to fulfil his or her role as a Director of the Company.
appointments of Jean Tomlin and Susan Rice to the Board, and of The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of Angie Risley to the Operating Board, 30 per cent of our Board and interest on a regular basis.
27 per cent of our Operating Board are women.
Thirty two per cent of our most senior executive positions are filled by women, providing a strong pipeline of female leaders for the future.
Overall 54 per cent of our 157,000 colleagues are female.
40 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Corporate governance statement continued In last years report, the Board disclosed that it had considered a All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company potential conflict for Justin King, whose son, Jordan King, is one Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are of the countrys top young racing drivers.
His success is attracting followed and for governance matters.
The appointment and removal of interest from potential sponsors.
Current sponsors include high netthe Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
worth individuals and companies with established interests in motor There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may sport.
Some of the sponsors are also suppliers to Sainsburys.
Jordan take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the King arranges his sponsorships through his company, 42 Racing Ltd. furtherance of their duties.
The Board has again satisfied itself that Justin King has no direct involvement in the trading relationship between Sainsburys and any Board evaluation supplier who may have an interest in 42 Racing Ltd.
It remains satisfied The annual evaluation exercise was last conducted on an external basis that the governance of all supplier relationships is robust and that there in 2011 when Manchester Square Partners who had no other relationship is therefore no conflict of interest regarding these arrangements.
with Sainsburys led the review.
Their report to the Board concluded that the Board was working effectively across many dimensions.
The Information Board identified actions to develop some aspects of Board succession The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly and management transition and to strengthen further the focus on briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full strategic initiatives and progress was reported in last years report.
and timely access to relevant information.
The quality and supply of information provided to the Board is reviewed as part of the Board The Board agreed that this years review should be carried out by the evaluation exercise.
The conclusion from this years evaluation was that Company Secretary, as it had been in 2012.
The Board is satisfied that Board meetings and processes were very effective.
these internal reviews follow an established process which enables a thorough review with full and open participation from all Directors.
The key objectives were to determine whether year-on-year progress Directors induction and development had continued on the key points identified by Manchester Square We have a programme for meeting Directors training and development Partners, to review progress against last years action points, to identify requirements.
Newly appointed Directors who do not have previous any emerging themes, and to consider whether the Board and its public company experience at Board level are provided with detailed Committees were working effectively.
training on their role and responsibilities.
All new Directors participate in a comprehensive and tailored induction programme including store A questionnaire was circulated to all Directors seeking their evaluation and depot visits and meetings with other members of the Board, of a number of matters, including strategy, Board and management members of the Operating Board, senior management and external succession, Board culture, balance and diversity, meetings and advisors.
The induction programme includes a full review of corporate processes, investor relations, risk management and Board Committees.
Subsequent training is available on an ongoing basis to This was followed up in separate discussions with each of the Directors meet any particular needs.
to take their detailed feedback on any emerging themes.
The Company Secretary then presented the principal conclusions to the Board at a Since her appointment to the Board in January 2013 Jean Tomlins meeting convened for that purpose, and the Board discussed the key induction programme has included a session with PwC on her role and points and agreed certain actions.
responsibilities as a non-executive director, and meetings with all of the plc and Operating Board Directors.
She has also had meetings with the The Board reviewed the action points from the 2012 evaluation and Remuneration Committee advisors, the Director of Corporate Affairs concluded, in particular that: and senior members of the Finance Division.
Jean has also presented to the Companys senior management on her experience at LOCOG.
the strategic debate had made good progress and there were Her induction will continue into 2013 14.
Following her appointment common views on the strategic priorities: on 1 June 2013, Susan Rice will have a detailed induction programme it would continue to develop strong links with the broader during 2013 14. management team.
The Boards visit to Sainsburys Bank had been very successful and the regular informal sessions with the members During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Fallowfield, has provided of the Operating Board were an effective means of understanding updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, Directors duties their priorities.
The Board noted that it will be visiting the new Store and obligations, and new legislation and its impact on the Company.
Support Centre offices in Coventry in June 2013 which will provide The Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting developments another excellent opportunity for engaging with the non-food and through presentations from management and the external auditors.
property teams located there: and This year this included updates on the future of narrative reporting, changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and revision of the Directors were working well together with an open and honest culture IFRS conceptual framework.
The consultants to the Remuneration and a high degree of trust and integrity.
Committee advise the Committee on relevant governance and trends in remuneration.
They received updates on the new BIS requirements and As part of the Board evaluation exercise, the Senior Independent the remuneration guidelines issued by investor representative bodies.
Director reviewed the Chairmans performance with the other Directors and subsequently met him to provide feedback.
The Chairman provided The Board programme includes regular presentations from feedback to each Director on their individual contribution to the Board management and informal meetings which increase the Non-Executive and, with each of them, considered development priorities for them.
Directors understanding of the business and the sector.
During the year the Board held a Board meeting at our Sainsburys Bank offices in In line with the Code, the Board anticipates that the 2014 Board Edinburgh and received presentations from members of the Sainsburys evaluation will be facilitated by an external provider.
Bank team on all of the keys aspects of the Banks business.
In addition, they met a number of the broader management team during their visit and held a question and answer session with all Bank colleagues.
Directors have also visited stores and other sites as part of their continuing engagement with the business.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 41 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Attendance Board Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Operating The table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings.
The Board scheduled eight meetings during the Board and to the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference for each year, including the two-day Strategy Conference, and additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls were also convened to deal with specific Committee are available on the website www.
matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
Board Audit CR Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Corporate Audit Responsibility Matt Brittin 8 8 4 4 5 5 Committee Committee Gary Hughes Mike Coupe 8 8 Jean Tomlin Anna Ford 6 6 2 2 5 5 2 2 Mary Harris 8 8 2 2 5 5 5 5 Gary Hughes 8 8 4 4 5 5 J Sainsbury plc Nomination Remuneration Justin King 8 8 2 2 Committee Board Committee David Tyler David Tyler Mary Harris John McAdam 7 8 3 4 4 5 4 4 John Rogers 8 8 Bob Stack 3 3 3 3 1 1 Jean Tomlin 2 2 3 3 David Tyler 8 8 5 5 The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets.
As referred to above, there were a number of informal meetings during the year when Directors met individual members of the Operating Board to receive updates on their specific areas of responsibility.
In addition, Group the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Trading Safety OpeOperating rating Board Directors being present, and the Non-Executive Directors also met Board Committee Justin King Board without the Executive Directors or the Chairman being present.
Mike Coupe Tim Fallowfield Justing King Investor relations The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of Corporate Justin King, John Rogers and Adam Wilson Katsibas, Head of Investor Investment Responsibility Relations.
The Chairman is generally available to shareholders Board and Sustainability and meets with institutional and other large investors: the Senior John Rogers Steering Group Independent Director is also available as required.
Justin King The Company regularly meets with its large investors and institutional shareholders who, along with sell-side research analysts, are invited to presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement of the Companys interim and full year results.
They are also invited to participate in conference calls following the announcement of the Companys trading statements.
The content of these presentations and Operating Board conference calls are webcast and are posted on the Companys website Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Operating www.
co. uk investor-centre so as to be available to all Board, which is chaired by Justin King.
The Operating Board held ten investors.
scheduled meetings during the year and each Directors responsibilities are set out on page 37.
It has formal terms of reference setting out its The Board at each Board meeting receives feedback on the views of key responsibilities.
major investors and the IR programme.
In addition, Makinson Cowell provide investor relations consultancy services to the Company and The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading give an external analysis to the Board at the Strategy Conference on Board, the Investment Board, the Group Safety Committee and the the views of institutional investors and sell-side analysts.
Non-Executive Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Steering Group, each Directors also receive regular market reports and broker updates from of which has approved terms of reference setting out its areas of the Companys IR department.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the AGM, which this year will be held on 10 July 2013.
There will be a display of various aspects of the Companys activities and Justin King will make a business presentation.
A detailed explanation of each item of special business to be considered at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice guidelines and enables the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
Information on matters of particular interest to investors is set out on pages 125 to 127 and on the Companys website www.
42 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
