Governance Corporate governance statement continued Audit Committee Gary Hughes, Chairman, Dear Shareholder, Audit Committee The Committee remains satisfied that the business has maintained robust risk management and internal controls, supported by strong overall governance processes.
We have a good balance of skills and experience amongst Committee Committee membership members, and we believe that our discussions with management The Audit Committee is chaired by Gary Hughes, with John McAdam are open, thorough and appropriately challenging.
We are well and Matt Brittin as its other members, all of whom are independent supported by the internal audit function, and our external auditors Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has determined that Gary Hughes also give us confidence in the Companys approach to controls and has recent and relevant financial experience.
Recent annual evaluations support our belief that governance of King, John Rogers, Susannah Hall Director of Internal Audit, other risk at Sainsburys remains strong and that the Committee is working senior members of the Finance Division and the external auditors are effectively.
invited to attend Committee meetings.
Tim Fallowfield is secretary to the Committee.
As a Committee, we are keen to ensure that the identification and management of risks is embedded across all areas of the business, The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys with effective oversight by the Operating Board.
We regularly review the website at www.
risk profiles for each business division and the actions they are taking or processes they have in place to manage or mitigate their risks.
In addition, we frequently receive updates on specific areas of risk from the relevant members of the management team.
We are satisfied that management has instilled a strong culture throughout the business.
Over recent years, the Committee has received updates on the matters discussed at the Sainsburys Bank Audit Committee and on other key Bank matters including its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management processes.
One of our priorities in 2013 14 will be to ensure our governance continues to be strong from an Audit Committee perspective as we move towards completion of our full ownership of the Bank.
Gary Hughes Chairman, Audit Committee 46 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Activities during the year implications, how the purchase would affect the Group balance sheet During the year, the Committee met on four occasions and the external and how the Committee would continue to receive assurance around auditors and the Director of Internal Audit were given the opportunity risk management and internal controls.
after each meeting to meet with the Committee, without management being present.
At each meeting the Committee receives a report on the internal controls framework and the Internal Audit departments activities.
This The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit which year it received information on major IT projects, business continuity reflects the Companys reporting cycle: planning and details of any invocation of the business continuity management team.
The Committee reviews the quarterly results of the store safe and legal audits to ensure that appropriate standards are Standard items being maintained.
September Accounting update The Committee also reviews: PwC performance review the effectiveness of the Companys financial controls and the systems Litigation report of internal control by approving the Internal Audit plans twice yearly, Internal controls framework and fraud update reviewing the findings quarterly and by reviewing the scope of Risk management update work and reports of the external auditors.
The detailed actions for Sainsburys Bank report resolution of any identified weaknesses are closely monitored by the PwC audit plan, audit strategy and fees Committee through to completion: and Terms of reference update the management of risk by reviewing the risk assessment process and Annual review and benchmarking of the Finance corporate and divisional risk maps and registers twice yearly.
These Division form the basis of the Internal Audit planning process.
Non-audit fees Full descriptions of the risk management and internal controls processes are set out below.
November Half-year accounting update, including going concern review The Companys whistleblowing procedures ensure that arrangements PwC Interim review report are in place to enable colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns about Draft Interim Statement possible improprieties on a confidential basis.
All issues raised have Litigation report been investigated and appropriate actions taken.
Any significant issues Internal controls framework and fraud update are highlighted to the Audit Committee.
Sainsburys Bank report The Company has a fraud policy and a Serious Fraud Committee, which Update on PwC management letter convenes in the event of serious incidents to oversee case management Non-audit fees and ensure appropriate actions are taken.
The Audit Committee receives a fraud update at each meeting.
March Accounting update Litigation report The Committee also receives an update at each meeting about matters Internal controls framework and fraud update discussed at the Sainsburys Bank Audit Committee and on any other Risk management update key matters.
Given the economic climate it has continued to focus on the Banks liquidity and cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management Internal audit charter processes.
Principal risks and uncertainties PwC internal controls report Throughout the year, the Committee also reviewed a number of specific PwC report on auditor independence presentations and updates.
For instance, it received an update on the Non-audit fees Companys IT change framework, data security controls and significant new opportunities being explored beyond the core business.
Sainsburys Bank report May Year-end accounting update, including going concern Financial statements and significant issues review An accounting paper is prepared by management and presented to the Litigation report Audit Committee four times a year, which provides detail on the main Annual Report and Financial Statements financial reporting judgements.
Specific accounting papers will also be prepared where considered necessary.
The significant issues considered Non-audit fees in the year were as follows: PwC year-end report and required communications Review of new contracts to ensure all accounting issues are identified External auditors appointment and revenue is recognised correctly in line with IAS 18: Revenue.
Internal controls framework and fraud update One example was our new joint venture, Insight 2 Communication, Sainsburys Bank report as disclosed within the Business review.
Consideration of provisions held and whether they remain adequate During the year, the Committee has considered a number of matters and complete.
As a result of the review, the majority of the disposal under the general headings above.
It monitored the integrity of the provision has been released.
See note 22. financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewed any significant Impairment of both financial and non-financial assets.
As disclosed financial judgements contained in them.
Within the accounting update in note 2, a review for impairment triggers is performed at each it considered provisions made by the Company, dilapidations of reporting date by considering if any current or future events suggest properties and land, impairments, promotional monies and the related their recoverable value may be less than their carrying value.
In addition, the Committee regularly reviewed This covers stores, depots and land.
An impairment review is also the Companys funding and liquidity position and has considered its performed for goodwill.
As a result, a provision of 2 million has been impact on the Companys financial and operational capabilities.
The made against investments in subsidiaries where the carrying value Committees detailed review of the year-end position assisted the Board exceeded the recoverable amount, as disclosed in note 13. in making the going concern statement set out on page 70.
Pensions and, in particular, the revision to IAS 19: Employee Benefits, to ensure adequate IAS 8 disclosure could be provided within the The Committee considered the key matters relating to the recently Annual Report and the implications for 2013 14 are understood.
announced acquisition of the 50 per cent stake in Sainsburys Bank that we do not currently own.
These included the accounting and direct tax J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 47 Governance Corporate governance statement continued The presentation of certain items outside of underlying profit as the cumulative total of non-audit fees.
In the event that cumulative defined within note 3.
Our definition of such items remains clear and non-audit fees exceed the audit fee then all subsequent non-audit further disclosure is included where appropriate.
expenditure must be approved by the Committee Chairman.
A review for post balance sheet events has identified two recent Grocery Supply Code of Practice announcements by the Group that require disclosure within the Annual Report.
Firstly, the purchase of the remaining 50 per cent of The Grocery Supply Code of Practice 2010 GSCOP requires each grocery retailer to which it applies to appoint a Code Compliance Sainsburys Bank and secondly, the proposed cessation of the future accrual of benefits within our defined benefit pension scheme.
Both Officer whose duties include hearing disputes between suppliers and the relevant retailer.
Sainsburys has appointed the Director of Internal post balance sheet event disclosures have been included within note 37.
Audit as its Code Compliance Officer.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied that reasonable judgements have been made by management and adequate disclosures provided A further GSCOP requirement is that each grocery retailer to which it where appropriate.
applies must deliver an annual compliance report to the Office of Fair Trading which has been approved by the chair of the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit A summary of the compliance report must be included in our Annual The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit departments Report and Financial Statements.
resources, budget, work programme, results and managements implementation of its recommendations.
In 2012, the Committee Summary Annual Compliance Report commissioned a review of the function by Deloitte.
The overall assessment Sainsburys continues to invest significant time and resource in was that it was a high performing function which is well respected by providing comprehensive training to all relevant colleagues as required its key stakeholders, compliant with the requirements of the Institute of under GSCOP.
This training is reinforced by online knowledge testing Internal Auditors standards and achieving performance levels which were and further supported by training and reference materials on our considered to be leading practice in many key areas.
Sainsburys has also dedicated internal legal resource to there has been significant improvement since the last external review, provide all relevant colleagues with day-to-day advice and guidance.
which had been conducted five years previously.
A small number of alleged breaches of GSCOP have been received in the The Director of Internal Audit reports to the Committee Chairman and reporting period, all of which either have been or are in the process of has direct access to all members of the Committee and the Chairman.
being resolved to the suppliers satisfaction within the Trading Division She is given the opportunity after each meeting to meet with the using our standard internal escalation procedure.
The resolution of Committee separately without management being present.
She has one of these alleged breaches was facilitated by the Code Compliance regular meetings with all Committee members.
and responsibility of Internal Audit are defined in the Internal Audit Charter.
The Committee reviews the Charter annually.
Risk management and internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the External Audit system of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Certain The Committee reviewed  LLPs PwC of these responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee overall work plan, and approved their remuneration and terms of as outlined on page 47.
The system is designed to manage rather engagement.
It considered in detail the results of the audit, PwC than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business performance and independence and the effectiveness of the overall objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance audit process.
PwC have been the Companys auditors since 1995. against material misstatement or loss.
They are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
Richard Hughes, the current audit partner, was The risk management process and the system of internal controls appointed in July 2010.
The Committee recommended PwCs rehave been in place for the whole year, up to the date of approval of the appointment as auditors to the Board and this resolution will be put to Annual Report and Financial Statements, and accord with the Turnbull shareholders at the AGM.
guidance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of Independence internal controls and has ensured that any required remedial action on In order to ensure their independence, the Committee has implemented any identified weaknesses has been, or is being taken.
the Companys policy which restricts the engagement of PwC in relation to non-audit services.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken Risk management by PwC during 2012 13 was audit related assurance services such as the Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the risk interim review and the provision of accounting advice, fees for which management system is designed to identify key risks and to provide totalled 0.2 million.
In addition, PwC earned fees for other non-audit assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed.
The audit fee for the year in respect of the Group, effectiveness of the process is reviewed twice a year by the Audit Company and its subsidiaries totalled 0.8 million.
The Board carries out an annual review of the significant remains satisfied with PwCs independence and their overall challenge risks facing the business.
The Operating Board maintains an overall corporate risk register which The policy was reviewed during the year and is consistent with the is reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Committee and formally discussed Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards No.
The risk register contains the significant risks faced by the The policy is designed to ensure that the provision of such services business and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both a gross does not have an impact on the external auditors independence and level before consideration of mitigating controls and net level after objectivity.
It identifies certain types of engagement that the external consideration of mitigating controls.
This gives the Board the opportunity auditors shall not undertake, including internal audit and actuarial to review the level of risk that the business is prepared to accept.
The services relating to the preparation of accounting estimates for the register also contains the assurance provided over current key mitigating financial statements.
It also requires that individual engagements controls.
Where further actions have been identified to mitigate risks to above a certain fee level may only be undertaken with appropriate a level deemed acceptable, these are agreed with specific timelines for authority from the Committee Chairman or the Committee.
The policy delivery and progress on implementation of these actions is monitored.
also recognises that there are some types of work, such as accounting and tax advice, where a detailed understanding of the Companys The risk management process is embedded at the Operating Board level business is advantageous.
The policy is designed to ensure that PwC is and through the review of the risk registers of each of the operating only appointed to provide a non-audit service where it is considered to divisions of the business: be the most suitable supplier of the service.
The Committee receives a the divisional operating management teams are responsible for report at each meeting on the non-audit services being provided and managing the risks to their business objectives and for identification and implementation of internal controls so as to provide reasonable, 48 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Corporate governance statement continued but not absolute, assurance that the risks in their areas of the Operating Board reviews and challenges the output of the responsibility are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed: divisional risk process and then updates the overall corporate risk register as appropriate: this divisional risk process is achieved through twice yearly workshops held by the divisional management and facilitated by Internal Audit.
game-changer and horizon scanning risk workshops are held annually Each divisional management team produces and maintains a divisional to focus on external and unknown risks: key risk register.
The likelihood and impact of each key risk is evaluated, the corporate and divisional risk registers form the basis of the risk managements risk appetite is discussed and actions deemed based plan of Internal Audit for the subsequent half-year period: necessary to mitigate the risk are identified.
In addition, the risks and the robustness of the mitigating controls are regularly reviewed by Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management and divisional management as part of their normal business activities: the Audit Committee as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk management process: and management certify annually in May that they are responsible for managing their business objectives and that the internal controls are the Board reviews the risk process and corporate risks in May and such that they provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that approves the Companys Principal Risks and Uncertainties as set out the risks in their areas of responsibility are appropriately identified, on page 51 to 53. evaluated and managed: The risk management process is illustrated below: Divisions Operating Board Audit Committee Plc Board Internal Audit January 1 2 Divisional Risk Operating Board February Workshops Risk Review assess key risks 3 review challenge to their business divisional risk objectives output and update corporate risk register as appropriate March Audit Committee Internal Audit review corporate risk-based and divisional risks half-year plan and sign-off Principal Risks & Uncertainties May Plc Board Management review of risk annual certification process, corporate that risks in their risks and sign-off areas of of Principal Risks responsibility are & Uncertainties identified, evaluated and managed June Horizon Scanning and Game-Changer Risk Workshops focus on external and unknown risks July 1 2 Divisional Risk Operating Workshops Board Annual assess key risks Risk to their business Workshop objectives August 2 Operating Board Risk Review review challenge divisional risk output and update corporate risk register as appropriate September Audit Internal Audit Committee risk-based review corporate half-year plan and divisional risks Output Output Output 1 2 3 Divisional risk Corporate risk Principal Risk & Uncertainties maps and registers map and register reflecting key corporate risks J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 49 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Internal controls The system of internal control encompasses all controls, including those relating to financial reporting processes including the preparation of the consolidated Group accounts, operational and compliance controls and those relating to risk management processes.
It also includes the controls over Sainsburys interests in Sainsburys Bank and property joint ventures.
The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls systems on an ongoing basis, enabling a cumulative assessment to be made.
The processes used during the year to support this assessment are as follows: discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategy, plans and objectives, and the risks to achieving them: review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, including those for both revenue and capital expenditure: regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives and mitigating controls and actions: regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the scope and results of the work of Internal Audit across the Company and of the implementation of their recommendations: regular reviews by the Audit Committee of the scope and results of the work of the external auditors and of any significant issues arising: regular reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and levels of delegated authority: and regular reviews by the Board and the Audit Committee of material fraudulent activity and any significant whistleblowing by colleagues or suppliers, and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses.
50 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
