Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate governance report Introduction by Charles Rice, Chairman of the Board I am pleased to present the Corporate governance report on behalf of the Board.
We aim to give a clear and meaningful explanation of how the Board and its committees discharge their duties and apply the principles of good governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 and September 2012 Code.
The Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards of corporate governance and that values and behaviours are consistent across the Group.
The appointment of David Moorhouse and Michael Salter as independent Non-Executive Directors during the year provides a firm foundation for continued oversight and scrutiny of the Companys activities.
I am pleased to report that at the date of this report, the Company complies fully with all of the principles and provisions enshrined in the Code.
I would encourage all shareholders to attend our AGM on 1 May 2014 as it provides an excellent opportunity to meet the Executive Directors and the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Our approach to corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
This report is intended to give shareholders a clear understanding of the Groups corporate governance procedures, how they operated during the year and how the Group complied with the principles set out in the Code.
Statement of compliance The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 through to the date of this report, the Company complied with the principles of the Code without exception.
Leadership Chairman and Chief Executive roles The Directors are collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and clearly distinct and are set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring the Board is effective in all aspects of its role.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct responsibility for the Group on a day to day basis which includes leadership of the operational management of the Groups businesses.
Strategy, acquisition and disposal of businesses and major capital investments are agreed between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director prior to review and approval by the Board.
The Board has considered and was satisfied that these roles operated effectively.
During the year, pursuant to the Code, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present on more than one occasion and the Senior Independent Director met with the other Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman present, on more than one occasion.
Role of the Board The Board is the principal decision making forum for the Company.
The Board has responsibility for the overall management of the Group and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
The Board approves Group strategy and monitors performance.
It has adopted a formal schedule of matters detailing key aspects of the Companys affairs reserved for it to approve, including: strategy and management: long term objectives: oversight of operations: performance: any changes to the Groups capital structure: financial reporting: material contracts: internal control and risk management systems: material capital commitments: corporate governance: and key policies and reporting to shareholders.
The schedule is reviewed annually.
All Directors participate in discussing strategy, performance, financial and risk management of the Company.
Meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion and as scheduled, the Board met six times in 2013.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, the Chairman ensures that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant matters in advance of the Board meetings, including comprehensive financial and business reports covering the Groups principal activities.
The Non-Executive Directors regularly visit major business centres of the Group in order to enhance their knowledge of the services and products offered, which in turn acts to strengthen their contribution to Board debate.
23 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate governance report The Board has adopted established procedures to address the management of potential and actual conflicts of interest.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters and to ensure that Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary also advises the Directors on any important changes in legislation, regulation and best practice.
In addition, all Directors have access to independent professional advice if necessary.
Effectiveness Size and composition of the Board The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, a Chief Executive Officer, a Group Finance Director and four other Non-Executive Directors.
The Board functions effectively and efficiently and is considered to be of an appropriate size in view of the scale of the Company and the diversity of its businesses.
The Board considers that each Director demonstrates a range of experience and is of the calibre necessary to support and develop the long term success of the Group, that each Director allocates sufficient time to perform his responsibilities effectively and that no individual or small group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
David Moorhouse and Michael Salter joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 1 August 2013.
Maurice Storey retired from the Board on 30 December 2013 after 10 years service and on that date Malcolm Paul succeeded him as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Role of the NonExecutive Directors The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors combine broad business and commercial experience to bring independent and objective judgement to bear and to challenge constructively the Executive on issues of strategy, performance, resource and standards of conduct.
The balance between Non-Executive and Executive Directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective leadership and maintain the highest standards of integrity across the Groups business activities.
The Code requires the Board to determine whether its Non-Executive members are independent.
The Board considers that all the NonExecutive Directors including Charles Rice, up to the date of his appointment as Chairman, are independent for the purposes of the Code.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected to commit sufficient time to allow for attendance at Board and Committee meetings and for keeping in touch with the senior management team, shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Senior Independent Director also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for Non-Executives where necessary.
Board committees The Board has Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Each Committee has formal written terms of reference.
In addition to the formal Committees, the Board has appointed an Executive Committee consisting of the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
This has written terms of reference and reports to the Board and, subject to the Companys Articles, is empowered to take such actions as are necessary relating to affairs of the Company in the normal course of business and of a routine nature, subject to such limits as the Board in its discretion determines from time to time.
The Executive Committee reports into the Board via the Chairman.
The Board also appoints from time to time sub-committees consisting of at least two Directors in order to finalise and approve those matters that have been approved in principle by the Board.
The Executive Directors meet with the managing directors of the principal businesses on at least a quarterly basis to deal with operational issues and develop and implement strategy.
Effective development Training and induction On appointment, new Directors are given a comprehensive induction to the Groups business, together with an ongoing programme of visits to the Groups major activities and meetings with senior management.
Ongoing training and development for Directors is available as appropriate and is reviewed annually.
Performance evaluation The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee and each individual Director.
The formal evaluations are undertaken internally and for the year ending 31 December 2013 were conducted in January 2014.
The formal evaluation requires each Director to complete in confidence a detailed questionnaire relating to all aspects of Board performance and performance of the Boards principal Committees.
The results of the evaluation are collated by the Company Secretary and reported to the Board via the Chairman with recommendations for further consideration and action as appropriate.
The review is unlimited in scope and includes an analysis of the Boards and Committees performance in key areas including corporate governance, structure and procedures, strategy and its effectiveness, risk control and communications with stakeholders.
The performance of each Director is also reviewed following the end of each year.
The Chairmans performance is reviewed by the other NonExecutive Directors led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The performance of the Executive Directors is also reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors with the Chairman in attendance.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors review the performance of each of the other Non-Executive Directors.
The performance evaluations are designed to assist the Board in identifying strengths and weaknesses and areas for further improving performance.
Re-election of Directors All Directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment to the Board and in accordance with the Code, all of the other Directors will also stand for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
24 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Risk management and internal controls framework The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its objectives and for ensuring that the Company maintains sound risk management and internal control procedures.
Accordingly, the Board has established an on-going process in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks facing the Group, which operated throughout the year.
The internal control systems are designed to provide the Board with reasonable assurance as to the effective and efficient operation of the Group and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
However, there are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance.
In 2013, the effectiveness and consistency of risk management at all levels of the organisation has been measured.
The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that on-going processes and systems ensure that the Group continues to be compliant with the Turnbull guidance.
Further information on the Groups risk management and internal control processes are set out in the Audit Committee report and details of the principal risks and the Groups approach to mitigating them are set out in the Strategic report.
Whistle-blowing policy As part of its internal control, the Group has a whistle-blowing policy which encourages employees to report in good faith any genuine suspicions of fraud, bribery or malpractice in order to identify any problems within the Group at an early stage.
The policy is designed to ensure that any employee who raises a genuine concern is protected.
Any concerns may be raised in the first instance with the Company Secretary in confidence.
Anti-bribery and corruption In accordance with the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards in all of the Groups business dealings and condemns corruption in all its forms.
The Group has a formal anti-bribery and corruption statement and policy and does not tolerate or condone corruption or bribery in any of the Groups business dealings.
This policy has been implemented throughout the Group and is supported by a Group wide training and awareness programme and regular Group wide compliance reviews.
Relations with shareholders The Company communicates with shareholders through the annual report, interim report, preliminary announcements, interim management statements, investor days and the Company web site.
The Board takes the opportunity at the AGM to meet and communicate with private and institutional shareholders and welcomes their involvement.
Furthermore, communication with the Companys largest institutional shareholders is undertaken as part of the Companys investor relations programme.
In order that all Directors are aware of the views of shareholders non attributable feedback on the institutional presentations which is given to the Companys advisers, is circulated to the Board.
The Chairman periodically consults with major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of any issues and concerns.
In addition if at any meetings of the Executive Directors with investors a governance or strategy matter is raised, it is relayed back to the Board.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee reports to the Board and its members are appointed by the Board.
The Committee members are Malcolm Paul, Michael Everard, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter.
The Committee is chaired by Malcolm Paul.
The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference.
In summary, the Committees terms of reference include: To determine and agree with the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other senior executives: To review the appropriateness and relevance of the Groups remuneration policy: and To ensure that the provisions of the Code are fulfilled.
The Chairman attends the Committees meetings on invitation by the chairman of the Committee and is not present when his own terms and conditions are discussed.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee reports to the Board and its members are appointed by the Board.
The Committee members are Charles Rice, Michael Everard, Malcolm Paul, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter.
The Committee is chaired by Charles Rice.
The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference which include: To regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board including skills, knowledge and experience and recommend changes: Succession planning for Directors and senior executives: and Identifying and nominating for approval to the Board, candidates to fill vacancies when they arise.
The Committees work in 2013 included making recommendation to the Board on the appointment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors, Michael Salter and David Moorhouse, and nominating Maurice Storeys successor as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee on behalf of the Company engaged Cardinal Resourcing, external search consultants, to assist with the identification, screening and appointment of Non-Executive Directors.
25 James Fisher and Sons plc Corporate governance report Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Directors attendance at the Board and Committee meetings convened in the year was as follows: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Number of Meetings 6 3 3 3 Charles Rice 6 6 - - 3 3 Nick Henry 6 6 - - - Stuart Kilpatrick 6 6 - - - Michael Everard 6 6 3 3 3 3 3 3 Malcolm Paul 6 6 3 3 3 3 3 3 Maurice Storey 6 6 3 3 3 3 3 3 David Moorhouse 2 2 1 1 - - Michael Salter 2 2 1 1 - - Maurice Storey ceased to be a member of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees on 30 December 2013.
Whilst not formally required, Charles Rice, Nick Henry and Stuart Kilpatrick attended a number of Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee meetings by invitation as and when appropriate.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Michael Hoggan Company Secretary 3 March 2014 26
