Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Audit Committee report Introduction by Malcolm Paul, Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Role and responsibilities The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference, which include all matters referred to in the Code.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in respect of the Company and the Group and its key responsibilities are: to review the reporting of financial and other information to the shareholders of the Company and monitor the integrity of the financial statements including the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices: to advise the Board whether it believes that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: to review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit process, assess the independence of the auditor and ensure appropriate policies and procedures are in place to protect such independence: to review and assess the adequacy of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management which includes monitoring the internal audit function and monitor the risk profile of the business: and to report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Composition The Audit Committee consists exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The chairman of the Committee is Malcolm Paul, a Chartered Accountant, who was formerly finance director of a FTSE 250 company and has significant recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members were Maurice Storey, Michael Everard, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter.
Committee attendance is shown on page 26.
David Moorhouse and Michael Salter were appointed to the Committee on 1 August 2013 and Maurice Storey resigned from the Committee on 30 December 2013.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, representatives from external audit and internal audit and the Company Secretary normally attend the meetings by invitation.
Main activities of the Committee during the year The Committee met three times during the year in February, August and November and conducted the following business: February 2013 reviewed papers on key accounting judgements.
These included a review of the carrying value of intangible and tangible assets for any permanent impairment, the adequacy of provisions for slow moving inventory and overdue debts, claims and contingent liabilities, and the appropriateness of assumptions underlying the assessment of defined benefit pension schemes: considered reports from the external auditor on its audit and review of the Companys accounts including accounting policies, areas of judgement, risk management and internal controls: reviewed the principal financial and non-financial risks relevant to the Group, and the Groups internal control and risk management systems: reviewed the proposed final dividend and approved the going concern statement and management representation letter: reviewed and approved the Companys preliminary announcement, and draft Annual Report and Accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2012: considered the level of non-audit services fees for services provided by the external auditor and satisfied itself that the objectivity and independence of the auditor was safeguarded: reviewed internal audit reports and approved the 2013 internal audit plan: assessed the performance of the external auditor, summarising the result of the annual performance evaluation of the external auditor during the 2012 audit: met with the external and internal auditor without executive management being present to review the audit process, identify areas of improvement and concern and provide feedback on their respective performance: and approved the auditors fees for the 2012 audit and recommended to the Board that KPMG should be re-appointed as auditor for 2013.
August 2013 reviewed the Groups 2013 half year results, the interim announcement and the external auditors review: continued to monitor the Groups risk profile and noted the Groups risk from increased operations overseas: reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: reviewed the status of the 2013 internal audit programme and evaluated the Companys internal controls: 27 James Fisher and Sons plc Audit Committee report considered the 2012 2013 Audit Quality Inspections Annual Report and the 2012 2013 Public Report on KPMG issued by the Financial Reporting Council: and met with both the external and internal auditor without executive management being present.
November 2013 reviewed and approved the external auditors proposed audit plan and fees for 2013 and approved the key areas of audit focus: reviewed the internal auditors progress report on the 2013 internal audit and approved the proposed 2014 internal audit programme: reviewed and approved the Groups internal control and risk management review process: and reviewed and approved the process for evaluating the performance of the external auditor, internal audit and the Audit Committee.
Financial reporting and significant judgements As part of their monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, the Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, whether management have made appropriate estimates and judgements and seeks guidance from the external auditors to make a full and proper assessment.
The main issues reviewed in the year ended 31 December 2013 were: impairment of goodwill and intangible assets The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill and the assumptions related to the impairment review.
The judgements in relation to the impairment review relate to the underlying assumptions in calculating the value of a cash generating unit.
The key assumptions are the achievability of long term forecasts and the discount rates applied to the forecast cash flows.
As an area of audit focus, the Group Finance Director provided detailed reporting to the Committee including an assessment of the sensitivity analysis carried out.
revenue recognition The Group increasingly works on long term contracts which often span the period end and as a result judgements have to be made at that time on the stage of completion of these projects in order to fairly represent their progress in terms of both revenue and profit recognition.
The Company uses an established accounting policy in respect of accounting for long term contracts.
The Committee received reports on a number contracts where the estimation of the stage of completion had an impact on the performance of the business and were able to challenge the methodology by which revenue and profits had been recognised.
Where appropriate, matters arising were discussed with the Group Finance Director and the Committee concluded that the financial statements recognised revenue in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
defined benefit pension obligations The Committee considered the Groups defined benefit obligations and the underlying assumptions used to value those obligations.
The key assumptions being the discount rate, the inflation rate and life expectancy were compared to those of actuarial specialists and any significant changes from previous years were explained by the Group Finance Director.
Small changes to the assumptions applied to the valuation of defined benefit pension obligations can materially affect the results and reported pension liability.
operating in overseas jurisdictions with uncertain legislation In line with its overall strategy the Group has seen an increase in overseas activities particularly in emerging markets and sometimes in association with local shareholders.
This has the potential for increasing both the financial and governance risk exposure of the Group.
The Committee receives regular updates on the operational and financial performance of these businesses together with the assessment of areas where specific judgements have been necessary.
Where appropriate the Group seeks local professional advice on matters of legislation and tax and responds accordingly.
During the year Deloitte were appointed to advise specifically on control issues and to provide an internal audit function in several overseas territories.
On review the Committee was satisfied that the reports and explanations received supported the treatment of the performance of these overseas businesses in the financial statements.
The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out above was adequately addressed by the Executive Directors, appropriately tested and reviewed by the external auditor and that disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts were appropriate.
External audit The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditor, the auditors fees and their performance.
The Committee discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditor and management.
Following the conclusion of the annual audit the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the audit and the performance of the auditor through an evaluation process: this review takes into account and assesses the views of the Committee members, the Board and senior managers involved in the audit process.
The results of the review are considered by the Committee and discussed with the auditor and management.
The review includes an assessment of the calibre of the audit firm, its quality controls, the composition of the audit team, the audit fee, the effectiveness of the auditors communication and the auditors governance and independence.
For the 2013 audit, the Committee considered that the performance of the auditor was good and the auditors interaction with the Company, management and with the Audit Committee satisfactory.
KPMG Audit Plc has been the Companys auditor since 2008.
In accordance with UK regulations, KPMG adhere to a rotation policy based on best practice and a new lead engagement partner was appointed in 2013 in place of his predecessor who had completed five years in that role.
The Committee is mindful that the audit should be put out to tender at least every ten years.
The latest date the Committee would need to consider putting the audit out to tender is 2018, however the Committee will consider the need to tender the audit annually, dependent on the auditors performance.
28 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, the Company has an established policy in respect of non-audit fee work that may be undertaken by the auditor.
Whilst the Committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the auditor, it is a requirement that where fees exceed an agreed threshold, approval to use the auditor for such work must be given in advance by the Committee.
In 2013, KPMG carried out various non-audit tasks, particularly in relation to taxation where a detailed understanding of the Groups activities is advantageous.
Due diligence work in connection with the Groups acquisition of Divex was placed with another firm.
Non-audit fees paid to KPMG represented 32% of the audit fee in 2013.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG should be re-appointed as auditor and a resolution to this effect will be put forward at the forthcoming AGM.
Internal audit Internal audit programmes and internal control and risk management questionnaires are used to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems and processes.
The internal audit is managed by an experienced professional and primarily consists of a peer group review process, whereby a senior manager from within the Group conducts an audit of a non-related area of the Group in accordance with an annual programme approved by the Committee.
The scope of each internal audit is agreed in advance to try to ensure that key areas for each business are addressed.
Internal audit identify, report and address key commercial and financial risk and control issues and their reports are presented to the Committee for review.
The internal audit reports are shared with local and Group managers for review and action as appropriate, and provided to the external auditor.
In 2013 to supplement the peer review process, the Group appointed Deloittes risk assurance practice to carry out internal audits of our nonUK businesses and to improve our internal audit planning process.
The Committee considers that this appointment has improved the Group internal audit procedures.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function is reviewed annually by the Board and the Committee.
Following the 2013 review, the Committee recommended and the Board concluded that the internal audit process was appropriate and effective.
Risk management and internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Certain of these responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee, in particular the monitoring and review of internal control procedures.
The Audit Committee received reports throughout the year and has reviewed the systems of internal control and risk management and is satisfied that the systems are effective.
During the year there was one incidence of whistle-blowing in relation to alleged wrong-doing by the manager of a small overseas subsidiary.
Immediate action was taken by senior management which resulted in Deloitte being commissioned to carry out an independent review.
This process is on-going and appropriate action will be taken once the full facts have been established.
Key features of internal control systems The Company has an organisation structure which has clear lines of communication and accountability and delegation of authority rules.
Business strategies are reviewed and approved by the business board and reported to each Board meeting by the Chief Executive Officer.
All major items of capital expenditure, significant treasury transactions and significant contracts are subject to approval.
The Group has established policies for ethics, employment, health and safety, environmental, whistle-blowing and anti-bribery and corruption which are reviewed annually.
A schedule of matters reserved for the Board is in place for approving major transactions and strategic or organisational changes.
Key features of risk management systems Key risks, both financial and non-financial, are reviewed by the Board as well as by divisional management on an ongoing basis.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors meet at least quarterly with the trading company managing directors and functional heads to review their business performance, strategy and risk management.
All companies are required to have processes to identify and measure risks and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks.
This includes maintaining and regularly updating risk registers and formally submitting an annual risk management review for review by the Executive Directors, who report any material issues to the Board and are responsible for ensuring that necessary actions are identified and undertaken.
Executive management of the various business units submit reports to the Board, including details of the significant risks facing their business and how they are being controlled.
The annual review of risk management systems undertaken by the business units managing directors, includes an updated risk register.
Completed returns are submitted to the Company Secretary for analysis and reporting to the Board.
Furthermore the Board also undertakes a risk assessment before any decision on major projects is made and commercial, legal and financial due diligence is carried out on any potential acquisition.
The Groups Risk Committee which is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and includes the Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary and Group functional heads meet quarterly.
The Risk Committees terms of reference include the identification and monitoring of risks and ensuring the risks are actively managed.
The Committees findings are reported to the Board.
Malcolm Paul Chairman of the Audit Committee 3 March 2014 29
