CORPORATE GOVERNANCE tenure of the external auditors, the nature and level of The internal audit department, in conjunction with the services provided and confirmation from the external management of the business functions, produces a risk auditors that they have complied with relevant UK register annually.
This register has been compiled by the independence standards.
business, following feedback from senior management from the key business functions.
The terms of reference of the audit committee are available on the Companys website.
The identified risks are assessed, based on the likelihood of a risk becoming a reality and the potential impact to Remuneration committee the business, should the risk become realised.
The committee is chaired by Debra van Gene and comprises Elizabeth McMeikan, Sir Richard Beckett and The head of internal audit determines and reviews the Mark Reckitt.
The directors report on remuneration is set risk-assessment process and will communicate the out on pages 46 to 50. timetable annually.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee The risk register is presented to the audit committee are available on the Companys website.
every six months, with a schedule of audit work agreed on, on a rolling basis.
The purpose of this work is to Nomination committee review, on behalf of the Company and the board, those The committee is chaired by Sir Richard Beckett and key risks and the systems of control necessary to manage comprises Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene and such risks.
The results of this work are reported to Mark Reckitt.
The committee meets regularly and relevant senior management and the audit committee.
considers, among other matters, board appointments and Where recommendations are made for changes in the re-election of directors.
No director is involved in any systems or processes to reduce risk, internal audit will decision about his or her own re-appointment.
In carrying follow up regularly to ensure that the recommendations out these activities, the non-executive directors follow the are implemented.
guidelines of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA and comply with the Code.
A summary of the financial risks and treasury policies can be found on pages 40 and 41, together with other risks The terms of reference of the nomination committee are and uncertainties.
available on the Companys website.
Internal control Relations with shareholders During the year, the Company provided an internal audit The board takes measures to ensure that all board and risk-management function.
The attempt to create a members are kept aware of both the views of major system of internal control and risk mitigation is a key part shareholders and changes in the major shareholdings of of the Companys operations and culture.
Efforts made to accomplish effective responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal communication include: control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The function can only manage, rather than entirely eliminate, the risk of Annual general meeting, considered to be an important failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only forum for shareholders to raise questions with the board reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Regular feedback from the Companys stockbrokers misstatement or loss.
Ongoing reviews, assessments and Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated management of significant risks took place throughout to shareholders the year under review and up to the date of the approval Any significant changes in shareholder movement of the annual report and accord with the Turnbull being notified to the board by the company secretary, Guidance Guidance on Internal Control.
when necessary The company secretary maintaining procedures and The Company has an internal audit function which is agreements for all announcements to the Stock Market discharged as follows: A programme of regular meetings between investors and directors of the Company Regular audits of the Company stock Unannounced visits to pub sites Risk management Monitoring systems which control the Companys cash The board is responsible for the Companys Health & safety visits, ensuring compliance with risk-management process.
Company procedures Reviewing and assessing the impact of legislative and regulatory change 54 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk-management process, identifying key risks facing the business The Company has key controls, as follows: Authority limits and controls over cash-handling, purchasing commitments and capital expenditure A budgeting process, with a detailed 12-month operating plan and a mid-term financial plan, both approved by the board Business results reported weekly, with a report compared with budget and the previous year Forecasts prepared regularly throughout the year, for review by the board Complex treasury instruments are not used.
The Company, from time to time, as revealed in our report and accounts, enters into swap arrangements which fix interest rates at certain levels for a number of years and enters into supply arrangements with fixed prices for electricity and gas, for example, which run for between one and three years An annual review of the amount of external insurance which it obtains, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its costs and the likelihood of the risks involved Regular evaluation of processes and controls, in relation to the Companys financial reporting requirements The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Kirk Davis Company Secretary 13 September 2013 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 55
