CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance Directors conflicts of interest The Company is committed to high standards of The board expects the directors to declare any conflicts corporate governance.
Although, as indicated in the of interest and does not believe that any material conflicts chairmans statement, the chairman has reservations of interest exist.
with regard to some aspects of the code.
The board of directors The board believes that the Company has been The board comprises the following members: compliant with the code throughout the 52 weeks Tim Martin, chairman ended 28 July 2013, except as described below.
John Hutson, chief executive officer Kirk Davis, finance director and company secretary B.
4.2 Development Su Cacioppo, personnel and legal director Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director The chairman does not formally sit down with Debra van Gene, non-executive director individual directors and identify specific training and Sir Richard Beckett, non-executive director development needs for them.
The chairman and executive Mark Reckitt, non-executive director directors hold a series of weekly meetings, with headoffice and pub managers, to try to identify areas of The board considers each of Elizabeth McMeikan, improvement for the business.
Minutes are taken of these Debra van Gene, Sir Richard Beckett and Mark Reckitt meetings and action points identified for a range of to be independent.
In the opinion of the board, this process is effective in identifying problems and solutions and assists Biographies of all non-executive and executive directors in the training and development of directors on an are provided on page 43 and can be viewed on the informal, yet effective, basis.
6.2 External board evaluation The chairman regularly meets the non-executive directors and evaluates the performance of the board, its No externally facilitated evaluation of the board has taken committees and its individual directors.
place over the last three years.
The non-executive directors and chairman evaluate the performance of the board on a It is not advantageous, in a company like Wetherspoon, quarterly basis and address any issues which arise.
for there to be high barriers or exaggerated distinctions between the role of chairman and that of chief E. 1.1 Dialogue with shareholders executive officer.
However, some general distinctions are outlined overleaf.
The Code indicates that the chairman should discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders.
The chairman has discussed governance and strategy with major shareholders on many occasions since the flotation in 1992.
However, the majority of discussions with major shareholders takes place among the CEO, finance director and shareholders.
The chairman is available for discussion with major shareholders, when requested.
A full version of the Code is available on the official website of the Financial Reporting Council: www.
uk ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 51
