Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 27 Non-executive directors The directors submit their report together with the audited financial Ian D Marchant Jeremy R Wilson Senior independent director Key experience: Oil & gas advisory, international statements of the Group for the year Key experience: Public company boards, power finance and financial markets ended 31 December 2013. sector, finance, government and regulation Appointed: 2011 Spent his career at J. P. Morgan, which he joined Appointed: 2006 Results and dividends in 1987, until retiring in October 2013.
He held Was Chief Executive of SSE plc, a leading UK The Group income statement for the year is set a series of senior level positions at J. P. Morgan, energy utility company, for over 10 years until out on page 59.
In respect of the year ended 31 including head of their European Mergers and stepping down in the summer of 2013.
He is December 2013 an interim dividend of 7.1 cents Acquisitions Group, Global co-head of their non-executive Chairman of Infinis Energy plc and per share was paid on 26 September 2013 and Natural Resources and Diversified Industrial a non-executive director of Aggreko plc.
He is the directors have proposed a final dividend of Group and latterly Vice Chairman of the Energy also President of the UKs Energy Institute and 14.9 cents per share to be paid on 20 May 2014.
Group, and was involved in a number of major oil Chairman of Scotlands 2020 climate delivery The full year dividend will therefore be 22.0 cents and gas mergers over the years.
He continues group and of Maggies Cancer Charity.
as a senior adviser to J. P. Morgan, is a nonCommittee membership: Chair of the Audit executive director of Tullow Oil plc and Chairman Committee and member of the Nomination Auditors of The Lakeland Climbing Centre.
Committee A resolution to reappoint Committee membership: Member of the  LLP as auditors of Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
Thomas M Botts Key experience: International oil & gas including North America, Europe, South America, Middle East David K Woodward Other information and Downstream Key experience: International oil & gas including Other information relevant to and forming part North America, Middle East and the Former Soviet of the report of the directors is to be found in Appointed: 2013 Union the following sections of the annual report: Formerly with Shell for 35 years, latterly as Global head of Shells manufacturing business.
He is a Appointed: 2007 non-executive director of EnPro Industries and is Currently Senior Management Adviser of also co-Chair of the Governors Task Force at the Mubadala Petroleum LLC, a wholly owned University of Wyoming.
subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company, Committee membership: Member of the a leading business development and investment Further reading Pages Nomination Committee and Chair of the Safety & company based in Abu Dhabi.
Previously with Assurance Committee BP for 36 years, latterly as President of BP Board of directors and biographies 26 to 27 Azerbaijan.
In 2006 he was awarded the CMG for services to the international oil industry.
Michel Contie Strategic report 05 to 14 Committee membership: Chair of the Key experience: International oil & gas including Remuneration Committee and member of the South America, Europe and the Middle East Audit and Nomination Committees Principal risks and uncertainties 21 to 23 Appointed: 2010 Formerly with Total for 35 years in a variety Acquisitions and divestments 96 to 98 of senior positions, latterly as a member of Neil H Smith the Total E&P Management Committee.
He Appointed: 2004 Principal subsidiaries and 104 has been president of UKOOA UK Offshore Retired from the Board on 31 December 2013. joint ventures Operators Association and currently sits on the Management Committee of the International Corporate governance 24 to 54 Oil and Gas Producers Association.
He is also a non-executive director of Expro International Going concern 34 Group Holdings Ltd and Oryx Petroleum Corporation Limited.
Statement of directors Committee membership: Member of the 34 responsibilities Remuneration, Nomination and Safety & Assurance Committees Our people 18 Mary L Shafer-Malicki Ethical conduct of our business 20 Key experience: Public company boards, international oil & gas including Asia and Africa Safety & Assurance and 16 to 17 Social Responsibility Appointed: 2012 Worked for Amoco and BP for 26 years, latterly Substantial shareholders 29 as Senior Vice President and CEO for BP Angola, with previous appointments in Vietnam, Aberdeen, Holland and the USA, principally in Share capital 93 upstream activities.
She is currently a nonexecutive director of McDermott International, Directors interests in options 53 Inc. and of Ausenco Limited and is a member of over ordinary shares industry councils at Oklahoma State University Directors interests in and the University of Wyoming.
51 to 52 ordinary shares Committee membership: Member of the Nomination, Audit and Safety & Assurance Committees John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
