28 Corporate governance Statement of Compliance The Board remains fully committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and believes that this is key to overall performance and integrity, consistent with our Core Values.
The following section explains how the Company has applied the main principles of Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with shareholders outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code.
A copy of the Governance Code is available at www.
The directors consider that the Company has fully complied with the provisions of the Governance Code during the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Board considers that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Board also believes that good corporate governance extends beyond regulatory compliance and consistently monitors developments in best practice, including guidance published by investor groups.
Mark S Dobler left the Board on 9 October on In October 2013, Jeremy R Wilson retired as What is the role of the Board?
announcement of the proposed formation of vice-chair of J. P. Morgans Energy Group.
He The Board has a schedule of matters specifically a joint venture with Siemens AG for rotating continues as a senior adviser to J. P. Morgan on reserved for its consideration and approval.
equipment services which he will lead.
The Company has a material These include responsibility for Group strategy, remains CEO of the GTS Division pending the business relationship with J. P. Morgan Cazenove, the annual budget, significant acquisitions, risk formation of the joint venture.
who act as joint corporate broker, adviser and management and the overall system of internal lender to the Company.
Executive management is responsible for Thomas M Botts joined the Board as a nonwhether his role at J. P. Morgan could affect the implementation of Board decisions in these executive on 8 January 2013. his judgement as a director of the Company, areas and all other aspects of managing the the Board continues to believe that Jeremy business.
A typical Board agenda is set out on Neil H Smith retired as a non-executive director is independent in character and judgement page 25. on 31 December 2013 after nine years on the and, accordingly, has determined that he is Board.
an independent non-executive director for the What is the composition of the Board?
A clear separation of the roles of the Chairman purposes of the Governance Code.
The Board comprised 13 directors for the and the CEO has been agreed by the Board, majority of the year.
At all times the non-executive in compliance with the Governance Code.
The directors comprised a majority of the Board Are Board members standing Chairman is responsible for the leadership and excluding the Chairman as recommended by the for re-election?
He chairs the Board Governance Code.
All directors, other than Allister G Langlands, will meetings, ensures the agendas are appropriate seek re-election at the 2014 AGM.
and is responsible for facilitating that all directors In January 2014, the Chairman advised that he actively contribute to the determination of the will retire from the Board effective from the date How does the Board discharge its Groups strategy.
The CEO is responsible for of the next Annual General Meeting to be held on responsibilities?
the day-to-day management of the Group and 14 May 2014.
Ian D Marchant, currently senior There were six scheduled Board meetings during implementation of the Group strategy, develops independent director, will become Chairman of 2013, plus one unscheduled meeting.
Four of the proposals for Board approval, and ensures that a the Board from that date.
An announcement on meetings were scheduled as two-day sessions regular dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
the new senior independent director and chair of and were held in Aberdeen twice, Houston Executive Board Members report directly to the the Audit Committee will be made in due course.
Safety & Assurance is always the CEO.
first item on the agenda at Board meetings.
The In September 2013, Mike Straughen advised Board received detailed presentations from senior that he intends to retire during 2014.
Mike was Are the Board members independent?
management within the Groups businesses Chief Executive of Wood Group Engineering from After careful consideration, the Board during the year, each including updates on Safety 2007 until October 2013 and now oversees the considers all of its non-executive directors to & Assurance.
In October 2013, he be independent in character and judgement joined the Safety & Assurance Committee.
and, other than set out below, that there are no The executive directors attended monthly Group relationships or circumstances which are likely to Executive Committee meetings throughout the affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
year which include reports and discussions on Brief biographies of the directors appear on Safety & Assurance, operational issues, finance, pages 26 and 27. legal and business ethics, investor relations and John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 29 human resources matters.
In addition, divisional The non-executive directors, facilitated by Stewardship how do you engage with CEOs conduct Quarterly Review Meetings Lintstock and led by the senior independent your shareholders?
with senior managers of all businesses within director, were responsible for the performance Our investor relations activities are led by the their division.
These meetings are also normally evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account Groups CEO and CFO, supported by the investor attended by the Group CEO and CFO.
the views of the executive directors.
relations team and other members of senior management as appropriate.
We provide the In addition to Board meetings, a summary of the Key areas covered by the Board evaluation were opportunity for significant shareholders to meet Groups financial performance is made available the effectiveness of the Board and committee with the CEO and CFO twice a year around to the Board on a monthly basis.
meetings, individual director performance the interim and final results announcements.
& assessment of the Chairman, and the Shareholder feedback following these meetings is The directors have access, via a secure intranet nature & extent of the Boards interaction with provided to the Board to ensure that their views site, to presentations from the Groups brokers the management of the Group.
The main are well understood.
Our investor relations team which contain investors feedback, copies observations from the evaluation were: organises ad-hoc meetings with management, of relevant regulations, analyst research and manages capital markets day presentations for appropriate administrative information.
A desire to rearticulate the Groups investors and analysts and maintains an ongoing strategic direction, which was subsequently dialogue with the financial community through addressed at Board meetings in December What training do the Board members analyst relationships.
An Investor Relations report 2013 and February 2014 and is described receive?
is covered at each Board meeting.
Further details in the Strategic report The training needs of directors are periodically can be found in the Financial Responsibility discussed at Board meetings and briefings A preference for rebalancing the Board section of the Our Core Values section of this arranged on issues relating to corporate agenda and papers from operational to report on page 19. governance.
Arrangements are in place for newly strategic considerations, which will be appointed directors to undertake an induction In 2013, we also consulted with significant reflected in the Board schedule by ensuring process designed to develop their knowledge shareholders and investor bodies in relation to the that more time is available at Board and understanding of the Groups business.
This approval of a new long-term share incentive plan meetings for strategic considerations includes briefing sessions during regular Board LTP for senior management and executives.
The meetings, visits to Group operating sites and A request to review the extent of any LTP was approved at the 2013 Annual General discussion of relevant business issues.
Upon their duplication in activities between the Meeting.
appointment, directors are advised of their legal Board and its committees, which is being The Chairman and the senior independent and other duties and their obligations as directors addressed through a review of the Audit director are also available to shareholders on of a listed company and under the Companies Committees terms of reference request.
A desire to extend the depth of the Boards All directors are encouraged to attend relevant review of senior management succession How does the Board manage risk?
There is a procedure for any planning, which was subsequently The Board is responsible for the Groups systems director to take independent professional advice considered at the Boards meeting in of internal control and risk management which is at the Groups expense and all directors have December 2013 fundamental to the achievement of the Groups access to the services of the Company Secretary, strategic objectives.
Clear risk management Lintstock have no other connection to the Group.
who is responsible for ensuring that the Boards is required in all aspects of our objectives as procedures are followed.
How are conflicts of interest dealt with?
The Board requires directors to declare any How is the Boards performance appointments or other situations which would evaluated?
amount to a possible conflict of interest.
The The Board completed a formal evaluation of The Company has been notified, in accordance Board has procedures in place to deal with and, its own performance and of its committees with DTR 5, of the following major shareholdings if necessary, approve any such conflicts.
other than the Safety & Assurance Committee in the Company as of 3 March 2014. established during the year, individual Number of What is the Boards approach to directors, and of the Chairman during the year.
Name of issued shares % of issued shareholder held shares managing the Groups tax affairs?
6.2. of the Our tax affairs are managed consistent with our Governance Code, the Board retained Lintstock Ameriprise Core Values at all times, such that all relevant Limited Lintstock as advisors to facilitate the Financial 18,943,384 5.05% laws and regulations are observed.
We conduct Board evaluation process.
The evaluation involved Aberdeen Asset our affairs with tax authorities around the world directors completing detailed questionnaires, the Management 18,696,597 4.98% in an open, professional and courteous manner.
results of which were analysed by the Chairman Diligent professional care and judgement is used and the Company Secretary and presented by FIL Limited 18,245,808 4.86% to manage tax and mitigate tax uncertainty.
way of a report for discussion both at Board Schroder meetings in August and October 2013 and Investments 16,777,852 4.47% separate meetings between each director and the Chairman.
APG Algemene Pensioen Groep 11,253,239 3.00% John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 30 Corporate Governance continued Committees of the Board The Board has delegated some of its Board and Committee meeting attendance 2013 responsibilities to committees the Safety & Safety & Assurance Committee established in May 2013, Committee Assurance Nomination Audit Remuneration 1 Board membership Committee Committee Committee Committee the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
A summary of S&A N A R Key: Chairman Retired member the work of the Safety & Assurance, Nomination Number of meetings held 7 4 2 4 4 and Audit Committees is set out below and the report of the Remuneration Committee is Chairman included in the Directors Remuneration Report A G Langlands 7 N 2 on pages 35-56.
Executive directors The Charters and terms of reference of the S&A R Keiller 7 4 Boards committees are available on the Groups A G Semple 7 website.
S&A M Straughen 7 2 Attendance by directors at the meetings of the M S Dobler appointed 1 January, 5 Board and its committees is summarised here.
stepped down 9 October The dates of future Board meetings have now R Watson appointed 1 January 7 been agreed until the end of 2016.
Non-executive directors I D Marchant 7 N A 2 4 S&A N R M Contie 7 4 2 4 N R N H Smith retired 31 December 6 1 3 2 J R Wilson 7 N A R 2 1 4 N A R D K Woodward 7 2 4 4 S&A N A M L Shafer-Malicki 7 4 2 4 S&A T M Botts appointed 8 January 7 N 4 2 Note 1 Trish Sentance, former Group Head of HSSE, was a member of the Safety & Assurance Committee until September 2013.
2 Jeremy Wilson joined the Audit Committee in December 2013.
Safety & Assurance Committee Members of the Safety & Assurance Committee S&A Thomas M Botts Bob Keiller Mike Straughen Michel Contie Mary L Shafer-Malicki safety leadership development throughout Who is on the Safety & Assurance The Safety & Assurance Committee the Group, particularly in frontline operations Committee?
was established in May 2013 and The Committee comprises the pictured Board the quality and integrity of the Groups is responsible for overseeing the members above.
Thomas M Botts is chairman internal and external reporting of Safety & of the Committee.
Until she left the Group in Groups management of Safety Assurance performance and issues September 2013, Trish Sentance, Group Head & Assurance including personal of HSSE was also a member of the Committee.
the Groups preparedness for response to a security, consistent with its status Mike Straughen joined the Committee in major safety or security incident September 2013, replacing Trish.
as the Groups top priority.
the process for, and outcomes of, investigations into major safety and security Thomas M Botts How does the Committee discharge its incidents and the effectiveness with Chairman, Safety & Assurance Committee responsibilities?
which recommendations are assimilated The Committee meets at least twice a year, throughout the Group and has written terms of reference which are available on the Groups website setting out its the expertise and appropriateness of the responsibilities.
structure of the Safety & Assurance function throughout the Group Main responsibilities are to review and make recommendations to the Board regarding: The Committee met four times in 2013, including a meeting with WGPSN management in Houston the Groups Safety & Assurance strategy to discuss safety challenges affecting their and performance business.
the effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems, and evidence of a prevalent safety culture John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 31 Nomination Committee Board and Committee meeting attendance 2013 Safety & Committee Assurance Nomination Audit Remuneration 1 Board membership Committee Committee Committee Committee Members of the Nomination Committee S&A N A R Key: Chairman Retired member N Number of meetings held 7 4 2 4 4 Chairman A G Langlands 7 N 2 Allister G Langlands Ian D Marchant Thomas M Botts Michel Contie Mary L Shafer-Malicki Jeremy R Wilson David K Woodward Executive directors S&A R Keiller 7 4 Who is on the Nomination Committee?
Given the importance of the role of Chairman of The Nomination Committee is A G Semple 7 The Nomination Committee comprises the the Board, the Committee carefully considered responsible for recommending S&A Chairman and all of the independent nonwho should succeed Allister G Langlands, who M Straughen 7 2 candidates to the Board and executive directors.
Neil H Smith retired from will retire from the Board at the AGM on 14 M S Dobler appointed 1 January, 5 the Board and the Committee on 31 December May 2014.
Given Ian Marchants knowledge of stepped down 9 October ensuring succession plans are in the Group, having served as a non-executive 2013.
The Nomination Committee director since 2006, latterly as senior independent Non-executive directors aims to promote high standards of director, the Committee considered him the How does the Committee discharge its I D Marchant 7 N A 2 4 outstanding candidate.
The Committee views corporate governance by ensuring responsibilities?
S&A N R Ians appointment as natural evolution in the M Contie 7 4 2 4 The Committee meets at least once a year, and the balance of skills, knowledge and Groups stewardship and that it provides good N R N H Smith retired 31 December 6 1 3 has written terms of reference which are available experience of the Board both now continuity.
As a result, no external consultant 2 on the Groups website setting out its roles and J R Wilson 7 N A R 2 1 4 was retained or open advertising undertaken in and in the future.
N A R D K Woodward 7 2 4 4 connection with his appointment which is to take S&A N A Allister G Langlands Main responsibilities: effect at the next AGM to be held on 14 May M L Shafer-Malicki 7 4 2 4 2014.
S&A Chairman, Nomination Committee T M Botts appointed 8 January 7 N 4 2 reviewing Board structure, size and composition Korn Ferry International Limited Korn Ferry, an external consultant, has been retained to making recommendations to the Board with advise the Committee in connection with the regard to any changes appointment of an additional non-executive director with a view to them assuming the chair identifying and nominating candidates for of the Audit Committee.
Korn Ferry has no other the approval of the Board connection with the Company.
filling Board vacancies The Committee is cognisant of the Governance ensuring succession plans are in place Codes requirement to pay due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender when The Committee considered a number of conducting a search for Board candidates.
candidates for appointment as a non-executive Wood Group is committed to remaining an equal director including discussions with external opportunities employer.
However, given Thomas M Botts wealth of experience in the oil & gas industry The Committee met twice during 2013. following an outstanding career with Shell, no external consultant was retained or open advertising undertaken in connection with his appointment in January 2013.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 32 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Members of the Audit Committee A Ian D Marchant Mary L Shafer-Malicki Jeremy R Wilson David K Woodward Who is on the Audit Committee?
How does the Committee discharge It has been my privilege to chair The Audit Committee comprises the pictured its responsibilities?
The Committee met four times in 2013 and Our activities as an Audit Committee on each occasion we invited the Group CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Head continue to be focused on the What are the Committees of Internal Audit and the external auditors, responsibilities?
effectiveness of the Groups internal  LLP PwC to attend.
The Committee has written terms of reference, financial controls and financial risk During the year other relevant people from the which are available on the Groups website and business were invited to attend certain meetings management, the integrity of the are reviewed on an annual basis, setting out its to provide deeper insight into specific issues roles and responsibilities, including: Groups financial reporting and and developments across the Group.
The Group effectiveness of the internal and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors financial controls have the right of direct access to me as Chairman external audit processes.
As a of the Committee at all times, and to meet the monitoring the integrity of the Groups Committee we aim to promote high Committee without management present.
financial statements and its interim and standards of corporate governance preliminary announcements I report to the Board on the activity of the by ensuring robust and effective as delegated by the Board, advising Committee as part of a separate agenda item.
whether the annual report and accounts, During 2013 the Committee focused on the taken as a whole, is fair, balanced following areas: Ian D Marchant and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders Chairman, Audit Committee to assess the Companys performance, Financial reporting and significant business model and strategy accounting issues The primary areas of financial reporting reviewing the Companys procedures judgement considered by the Committee in for whistle blowing in relation to possible relation to the 2013 financial statements and how improprieties in matters of financial they were addressed are outlined below.
reporting, financial control or any other financial matters Review of significant contracts monitoring and assessing the effectiveness In 2013, the Group worked on a small number of the Groups internal audit function of material lump sum and fixed price contracts.
While these contracts only accounted for less reviewing the terms of engagement, than 10% of the Groups revenue in 2013, the independence and objectivity of the Groups recognition of profit or loss on such contracts external auditors during the year is subject to management advising the Board on the policy with regard estimation.
The Committee received regular to audit tendering taking into account updates on the status of lump sum and fixed relevant regulatory requirements price contracts including presentations from assessing the external audit process and management within all three of the Groups the effectiveness of the external auditors to divisions.
Some examples of this included an supply non-audit services, in accordance update from the Wood Group GTS CEO in with Group policy August 2013 and February 2014 on the Dorad contract, presentations by the CFOs of Wood reporting to the Board any matters which Group Mustang and Wood Group Kenny in May it considers to be in need of action 2013 on the status of the lump sum contracting or other improvement, and making activity in their businesses, and an update from recommendations as to the steps to be the Wood Group PSN CFO in February 2014 taken on the PDO contract in Oman.
The Committee Audit Committee members have been selected also received written and verbal summaries of with the aim of providing the range of financial the work undertaken by Group Internal Audit on and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the such contracts included within their annual audit Committees roles and responsibilities.
In addition, external audit assessed this as considers that I have recent and relevant financial an area of particular focus and the Committee experience as required by the Governance Code.
received updates on related work undertaken by PwC.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 33 Carrying value of inventory In addition, the Committee also received PwC have been the Groups external auditors The Group holds a small number of high presentations in relation to the implementation since the Group became a publicly listed value engines for use within future gas turbine of major IT systems underway across the Group company in 2002.
Whilst the Group has not Engineering, Procurement and Construction during 2013 and also considered the Groups formally tendered the audit since then, as part EPC contracts or for resale.
The carrying value treasury and tax policies and associated risks.
of the Committees review of the objectivity and of such engines is subject to management effectiveness of the audit process, a detailed judgement and market valuation.
During the year assessment was undertaken in 2012 as part of Internal audit the Committee received updates on opportunities the audit partner rotation process where it was Monitoring the activity of Group Internal Audit to utilise these engines on EPC projects, or sell decided not to put the audit engagement out is an agenda item at each Committee meeting.
engine units to our customers, which helped to tender.
During the year we considered the Reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit inform the discussion on any provision for audit tendering provisions outlined in the revised typically include updates on progress against impairment.
This is also a specific area of focus Governance Code and announcements by the the annual internal audit plan, a summary of the for external audit.
Council of the European Union on reforms within key matters arising from internal audit reviews, the audit market.
Having considered the need to an update on the status of actions arising from Disclosure and classification of tender the external audit, to date the Committee the work of Group Internal Audit and updates on exceptional items has been satisfied with the effectiveness of relevant regulatory matters impacting on the role The Group has certain items which are the external auditors and have not considered of the Audit Committee.
In addition, we receive separately disclosed by virtue of their size or it necessary to require PwC to tender for the summaries of investigations undertaken in relation incidence to enable a full understanding of the external audit work.
to suspected fraudulent activity or ethical issues Groups underlying financial performance.
The that have a material financial or commercial Committee reviews those items considered The Committee provided the Board with impact.
by management to be exceptional in order to its recommendation to shareholders on the ensure that they meet the Groups accounting reappointment of PwC as external auditors for I hold private discussions with the Group Head policy, that the treatment of such items is the year ending 31 December 2014.
Accordingly of Internal Audit as necessary during the year consistent from period to period and that the a resolution proposing the reappointment of outside the formal Committee process.
narrative disclosures made are adequate.
The PwC as our external auditors will be put to exceptional items included in 2013 are set out shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
External audit in note 4 to the Group financial statements and As part of the external audit process, PwC We will continue to assess whether the Group in the Financial review on pages 12 to 14. prepare an audit plan identifying their assessment should put the audit engagement out to tender of key audit risks.
These risks are discussed Review of subjective provisions and at present our intention is that the latest date during the year with input from management and At each meeting the Committee receives and such a tender exercise would be undertaken is on the Group Head of Internal Audit as necessary, reviews a management report which includes conclusion of the 2017 audit process, when the providing the Committee with an opportunity to details of material subjective provisions made current lead audit partner is due to rotate.
We assess the in respect of items including doubtful debts, There are no contractual obligations that restrict effectiveness of the audit process through the warranties, contract accruals, pending legal the Groups choice of external auditors.
reporting we receive from PwC at both the half issues and tax related matters.
The adequacy year and year end.
The Committee also review and appropriateness of these provisions and Non-audit services the standing, experience and tenure of the any disclosures required are discussed and One of the key risks to external auditors external audit lead partner, the arrangements for challenged.
independence is the provision of non-audit ensuring the independence and objectivity of the services by the external auditor.
The Committee Acquisitions, divestments and fair value external auditors, the nature and level of services considers and approves fees in respect of adjustments provided, including the robustness of the external non-audit services provided by the external In 2013 the Group made several acquisitions auditors handling of key judgemental areas and auditors as appropriate for the scope of work in and a disposal which are set out in note 27 to the quality of the external auditors interaction accordance with the Groups policy in this area, the Group financial statements on pages 96 to with, and reporting to, the Committee.
In addition, which is set out in the Audit Committees terms 98.
The Committee received summaries of the we conduct an annual exercise seeking feedback of reference.
The cost of non-audit services accounting for these transactions, including from management on the effectiveness of the provided in 2013 was equivalent to 4% of subjective areas such as the valuation of audit process.
PwCs total fee and is reported in note 3 to the intangible assets acquired, any gains or losses Group financial statements.
In the opinion of We provide an opportunity for open dialogue and on disposal, and any subsequent fair value the Committee, the provision of these non-audit feedback between the external auditors and the adjustments made.
services did not impair PwCs independence.
Committee without management being present.
Internal financial control Appointment and independence Committee evaluation The Board is ultimately responsible for the The Committee has overall responsibility for The Committees activities formed part of the Groups system of internal control and for ensuring that the external auditors independence external review of Board effectiveness performed reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee and objectivity is not compromised.
Details of this process can be found has been delegated the responsibility to review on page 29.
While the overall results of the Audit The Committee considers the reappointment of the effectiveness of the internal financial control Committee effectiveness evaluation were positive, the external auditor, including, when applicable, systems implemented by management.
In we have sought to improve the Committees the rotation of the lead audit partner, each year supporting the Board we considered the process effectiveness during the year through greater and also assesses their independence on an by which the Group evaluated its internal financial involvement of business personnel during Audit ongoing basis.
During the year we received control environment.
Our work here was primarily Committee meetings.
confirmation from the external auditors regarding driven by regular updates from the Group Head their independence.
In accordance with UK of Internal Audit on the effectiveness of internal regulations and to help ensure independence, our financial controls across each division and the auditors adhere to a rotation policy based on the Ian D Marchant results of the financial risk self-assessment Financial Reporting Councils Auditing Practices process undertaken across the Group.
External On behalf of the Audit Committee Board standards that require the Group audit audit also provide feedback on their assessment 18 February 2014 partner to rotate every five years.
This is the first of specific areas of financial control as year that the current lead audit partner has been appropriate during the course of their work.
involved in the audit of the Group and I had direct involvement in the rotation process.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 34 Corporate Governance continued Internal control monthly and quarterly reports.
The Board is ultimately responsible reports include a detailed financial review against for the Groups system of internal In preparing those financial statements, the budgets and revised forecasts.
The executive directors are required to: control and for reviewing its directors also receive detailed monthly financial reports and meet on a monthly basis to discuss effectiveness.
select suitable accounting policies and then financial performance and other operational apply them consistently The Board has established an ongoing process matters.
In addition, each division holds Quarterly make judgements and estimates that are for identifying, evaluating and managing the Review Meetings QRMs involving discussions reasonable and prudent significant risks faced by the Group that has with senior managers and certain of the executive been in place for the year under review and up state that the Group financial statements directors.
The CEO and the CFO normally attend to the date of approval of this annual report.
The comply with IFRSs as adopted by the the QRMs.
process is regularly reviewed by the Board and European Union, and with regard to the is in accordance with the revised guidance on parent company financial statements that Going concern internal controls published by the Turnbull Review applicable UK Accounting Standards have The Groups business activities, together with Group.
The Group, for the purposes of applying been followed, subject to any material the factors likely to affect its future development, the Turnbull Review Group guidance referred to departures disclosed and explained in the performance and position are set out in the above, comprises John Wood Group PLC, its financial statements Strategic report on pages 5 to 20.
The financial subsidiaries and joint ventures.
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity The directors are responsible for keeping proper position and borrowing facilities are described Any system of internal control is designed to accounting records that disclose with reasonable in the Financial review on pages 12 to 14. manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to accuracy at any time the financial position of In addition, note 17 to the Group financial achieve business objectives and can only provide the Company and the Group and to enable statements includes the Groups objectives, reasonable and not absolute assurance against them to ensure that the financial statements policies and processes for managing its capital, material misstatement or loss.
and the Directors Remuneration Report comply its financial risk management objectives, details with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards The key elements of the ongoing procedures, of its financial instruments and hedging activities, the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the which the directors have established to review the and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
They are also responsible for effectiveness of the system of internal control on safeguarding the assets of the Company and the The Group has considerable financial resources an annual basis, are listed below.
Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for together with the cash inflows generated from the prevention and detection of fraud and other As a result of these ongoing procedures the its existing activities as set out in notes 13, 15 irregularities.
Boards assessment was that the internal control and 26 to the Group financial statements.
As environment was operating effectively.
a consequence, the directors believe that the The directors are responsible for the maintenance Group is well placed to manage its business and integrity of the Companys website.
Having made the appropriate Ongoing procedures Legislation in the United Kingdom governing enquiries including a review of cash flow Overall control environment: the preparation and dissemination of financial projections and key sensitivities, the directors The Group has a clear organisational structure statements may differ from legislation in other consider, in accordance with the Governance for the control and monitoring of its businesses, jurisdictions.
Code, that the business is a going concern.
including defined lines of responsibility and Each of the directors, whose names and Adequate resources exist for the Group to delegation of authority.
The Group has issued functions are listed on pages 26 and 27, confirms continue in operational existence for the policies which define the standards of business that, to the best of their knowledge: foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue conduct and include Accounting Policies: to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Contract Risk Management and Review: Health, the Group financial statements, which have the Group and the parent company financial Safety, Security and Environment: and Business been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as statements.
A Group Business Ethics helpline, adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view operated by an independent third party, is in of the assets, liabilities, financial position place to enable staff and third parties to raise Statement of directors responsibilities and profit of the Group, and concerns in confidence about possible nonThe directors are responsible for preparing the the directors report on page 27 includes compliance with the Groups Business Ethics annual report, the Directors Remuneration a fair review of the development and Policy.
Report and the Group and the parent company performance of the business and the financial statements in accordance with Monitoring of the internal control systems: position of the Group, together with a applicable law and regulations.
The Board has agreed certain reporting description of the principal risks and procedures to monitor key risk areas on an Company law requires the directors to prepare uncertainties that it faces ongoing basis, including safety, legal and financial statements for each financial year.
So far as the directors are aware, there is no financial matters.
The Audit Committee has Under that law the directors have prepared the relevant audit information of which the Companys been delegated the responsibility to review the Group financial statements in accordance with auditors are unaware.
Relevant information is effectiveness of the internal financial control International Financial Reporting Standards defined as information needed by the Companys systems implemented by management.
It is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, auditors in connection with preparing their assisted by the internal auditors and, where and the parent company financial statements report.
Each director has taken all the steps that appropriate, the external auditors.
The Chairman in accordance with applicable law and United he ought to have taken as a director in order of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom to make himself aware of any relevant audit Board on their discussions.
The information and to establish that the Companys Group and parent company financial statements Information and communication: auditors are aware of that information.
are required by law to give a true and fair view The Group has a comprehensive system for of the state of affairs of the Company and the reporting performance to the Board.
This includes Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
