Governance Report Governance Framework The Board has four principal committees to deal with specic aspects of the Groups affairs.
The chairs of the respective Governance committees provide detailed reports to the Board on the matters discussed at the committee meetings, thereby ensuring that all Framework Directors have visibility and the opportunity to discuss such matters.
Directors are required to demonstrate unquestioned honesty and This section has been prepared in accordance with the integrity, a willingness to question, challenge and critique, and desire UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which applies to understand and commit to the highest standards of governance.
to the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the Each Director must ensure that no decision or action is taken that year ended 31 December 2013. places his interests in front of the interests of the business and commit to the collective decision-making processes of the Board.
Code compliance The Chairman promotes a culture of debating issues openly and During the year, the Company complied fully with the provisions of constructively and individual Directors are encouraged to question the Code, save in respect for: i the period when Vladimir Kim was or challenge the opinions of others.
Chairman, as he was not independent at the time of his appointment due to his significant shareholding in the Company, and ii after Matters reserved for the Board Philip Aiken stepped down from the Remuneration Committee Key matters reserved for the Board include the approval of: on 31 August 2013 when the membership of that committee comprised two independent non-executive Directors and the the Groups strategy, and medium and short-term plans: committee chairman, Simon Heale.
Following the appointment of major acquisitions, mergers or disposals: Simon Heale as Chairman, who was independent at the date of his major Group nancing: appointment as Chairman, and the appointment of Lynda Armstrong major capital investments and projects: as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 21 October 2013, the Company complied fully with the provisions of the Code.
the annual production and financial budget: the Groups risk management strategy and insurance: Leadership health, safety, environmental and ethical policies: The Role of the Board the Companys dividend policy: The Board is responsible for managing the Company on behalf of the appointment and removal of any Directors or Company its shareholders and each Director acts in a way which promotes Secretary of the Company: the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
The Board ensures an appropriate the authorisation of Directors conicts or potential conicts balance between promoting long-term growth and delivering of interest: short-term objectives is achieved.
the annual performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors: The Board is primarily responsible for: determining strategic direction and demonstrating leadership: focusing on matters that the annual report and accounts and half-yearly reports: consistently add value for the shareholders of the Company, both all circulars, reports, prospectuses or other related documents present and future: the governance and stewardship of the Group for shareholders: to provide protection and security for the shareholders assets: the principal regulatory lings with stock exchanges: the management of the Groups employees: setting the Groups the rules and procedures for dealing in the Companys shares: and standards and values, and ensuring that its obligations to shareholders and others are understood and met: and determining the nature and the appointment or removal of the Companys external auditor extent of the significant risks the Group is willing to take to achieve and main financial, legal and technical advisers.
Another key responsibility of the Board is to ensure that management maintains a system of internal control that Division of Responsibilities provides assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between financial controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and other Directors are clearly dened so that The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
for its decision which is reviewed regularly.
A summary of the matters reserved for the Board is set out above.
These are matters Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, that are significant to the Group as a whole because of their Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director are set strategic, financial or reputational implications or consequences.
60 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report ensuring the Groups operations comply with all relevant health Roles and responsibilities and safety standards, and activities are undertaken with special Chairman regard for environmental and social concerns in the countries In addition to being a Board member responsible to the in which the Group operates: Company and shareholders, the key roles and responsibilities ensuring at all times the Group conducts its business in accordance of the Chairman include: with the legal requirements of the countries in which it operates promoting the interests of the Company especially with and the Companys standards, if higher: regard to Group planning and development to secure a planning human resourcing to ensure the Company has the progressive future: capabilities and resources required to achieve its plans: ensuring the effective operation of the Board and its establishing a senior management team which has the knowledge, committees in conformity with the highest standards of skills, attitude and motivation to achieve the Groups business corporate governance: objectives both now and in the future: providing leadership to the Board, setting its agenda, style developing and maintaining an effective framework of internal and tone of meeting discussions to promote open and controls over risk in relation to all business activities: constructive debate and effective decision-making: managing the Groups risk prole in line with what is deemed ensuring that shareholders and the Board receive accurate, acceptable by the Board: timely and clear information on all important matters, recommending to the Board an annual budget and medium-term including Director remuneration, corporate governance financial and production plan: and and strategic issues: ensuring the ow of information to the Board is accurate, chairing the Nomination Committee: timely and clear.
ensuring comprehensive induction programmes for new Directors and the needs of all Directors are identied and met: Senior Independent Director In addition to being a Board member responsible to the ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees and Company and shareholders, the key roles and responsibilities individual Directors is formally evaluated: of the Senior Independent Director include: promoting effective and constructive relationships and communications between non-executive Directors and acting as a point of contact for shareholders and other executive Directors and senior management, and holding stakeholders to discuss matters of concern which would not be meetings with the non-executive Directors without the appropriate through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
executive Directors being present: No such matters of concern were raised by shareholders during ensuring effective communication with shareholders and the year ended 31 December 2013: that their views are understood by the Board: and acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as an maintaining an effective working relationship with the intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: Chief Executive.
meeting with the non-executive Directors without the Chairman Chief Executive being present at least annually and leading the Board in the In addition to being a Board member responsible to the ongoing monitoring and annual performance evaluation Company and shareholders, the key roles and responsibilities of the Chairman: of the Chief Executive include: monitoring the training and development requirements of Directors: and ensuring the creation and maintenance of a safe working environment and a safety-focused culture within the attending sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders Groups operations: to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and reporting the outcome of such meetings leading the management team in the day-to-day running at subsequent Board meetings.
of the Groups business, including chairing meetings of the Executive Committee: Non-executive Directors developing the Group objectives and strategy having regard The non-executive Directors provide a strong independent element to the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, to the Board and a solid foundation for good corporate governance.
employees and other stakeholders: Although all Directors are equally accountable under the law for the stewardship of the Companys affairs, the non-executive Directors establishing and maintaining an organisational structure that full a vital role in corporate accountability.
They have a particular will enable the Groups strategy to be implemented effectively: responsibility to: constructively challenge the strategies proposed by responsibility to the Board for the performance of the the executive Directors: scrutinise the performance of management business consistent with agreed plans, strategies and policies: in achieving agreed goals and objectives: and play a leading role in the developing through investment and divestment an appropriate functioning of the main Board committees.
Between them, the asset base for the Group to execute its strategy: current non-executive Directors have the appropriate balance of developing and promoting effective communication with skills, experience, knowledge and independent judgement from a shareholders and other interested parties: variety of business sectors and public life.
com 61 Governance Report Governance Framework continued Corporate governance framework Elect the external auditor Group Health, Safety and Shareholder External Auditor Environment Committee Findings and Ongoing dialogue Appointment recommendations in relation to seek and provide removal of Developing a to financial reporting information Directors framework of HSE policies and standards Audit Committee to manage risks Integrity of financial Provide assurance information and on major capital internal controls projects Board of Directors Projects Assurance Committee Day-to-day running of the Group Chief Executive Executive Committee Board composition Remuneration framework and succession and individual Director packages Management Team Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Effectiveness Board composition Composition of the Board Independent non-executive 5 Effective management and good stewardship are led by the Board, 1 Director which currently consists of nine Directors, seven of whom served Executive Director 1 throughout the financial year, with Michael Lynch-Bell and Lynda Non-independent Armstrong having been appointed on 27 February 2013 and 21 non-executive Director October 2013, respectively.
Chairman 2 In addition to the Chairman, there are five independent nonexecutive Directors, two executive Directors and one nonindependent non-executive Director: this balance ensures that no individual or small group of Directors can dominate the decisionmaking process and that the interests of the minority shareholders are The independent non-executive Directors are: protected.
Biographies of all Directors are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Lynda Armstrong OBE It is Kazakhmys policy that at least half the Board should be Appointed to the Board: 21 October 2013 independent non-executive Directors.
Other than Vladimir Kim, Nationality: British the Board considers each of its current non-executive Directors Skills and experience: Lynda Armstrong, a geophysicist by training, to be independent in character and judgement.
In reaching its has over 30 years natural resources experience with Shell.
During her determination of independence, the Board has concluded that each time with Shell she held a number of senior exploration and provides objective challenge to management, is willing to stand up operational roles, including Director UK Exploration and New Business and defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in order to support Development, Exploration Director of Petroleum Development the ultimate good of the Company, and there are no business or Oman and Technical Vice President for Shell International.
other relationships likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Other appointments: Chair of the trustees of the British Safety judgement of Lynda Armstrong, Clinton Dines, Michael Lynch-Bell, Council, a non-executive director of Central Europe Oil Company Lord Renwick and Charles Watson.
The Board carries out a review Limited and director of Calyx Consulting Ltd. of the independence of its Directors on an annual basis.
Vladimir Kim is not considered by the Board to be independent due to his Committee memberships: Member of the Group Health, significant shareholding in the Company.
Safety and Environment, and Remuneration Committees.
62 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report Clinton Dines Charles Watson Appointed to the Board: 2011 Appointed to the Board: 2009 Nationality: British Nationality: Australian Skills and experience: Charles Watson has an extensive background Skills and experience: Clinton Dines has been involved in business in both operational management and major project delivery, having in China since 1980, including senior positions with the Jardine spent 29 years at Shell.
During his time at Shell he held a number of Matheson Group, Santa Fe Transport Group and Asia Securities senior executive positions throughout the world, culminating in his Venture Capital.
In 1988, he joined BHP as their senior executive in appointment as executive vice president covering Russia and the CIS, China and, following the merger of BHP and Billiton in 2001, became including oversight of Shells activities in Kazakhstan, chairman of president, BHP Billiton China, a position from which he retired in Shell Russia and chairman of the board of directors for the Sakhalin 2009 prior to joining Kazakhmys.
He brings exceptional knowledge Energy Investment Company.
of China combined with global resource industry and management Other appointments: Non-executive director of Taipan Resources experience.
He was previously a member of the advisory board of Inc. and JSOC Bashneft.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Group Health, Other appointments: Executive chairman, Asia of Caledonia Safety and Environment Committee and member of the Private Investments Pty Limited and a non-executive director Audit and Remuneration Committees.
of Zanaga Iron Ore Company Limited.
Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, and Group Commitment Health, Safety and Environment Committees.
All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and each committee meeting for which they are members, save for Michael Lynch-Bell exceptional circumstances.
Scheduled Board and committee Appointed to the Board: 27 February 2013 meetings are arranged at least a year in advance to allow Nationality: British Directors to manage other commitments.
Skills and experience: Michael Lynch-Bell has extensive experience All Directors are provided with the papers for consideration and in the mining, oil and gas industries having spent his whole 38 year other relevant information in advance of each meeting.
If a Director career with Ernst & Young developing and later leading its global is unable to attend a meeting because of exceptional circumstances, mining and energy practices.
During his time with Ernst & Young, they still receive the papers and other relevant information in he played a key role in establishing Ernst & Youngs practice in advance of the meeting and have the opportunity to discuss with Kazakhstan and advised a number of major CIS companies on the relevant chairman or the Company Secretary any matters they transactions.
He retired as senior partner of Ernst & Youngs wish to raise to ensure their views are considered and, if necessary, transaction advisory practice for mining and metals and as an follow up with the decisions taken at the meeting.
The Chairman, elected member of its global advisory council in June 2012.
Chief Executive and Company Secretary are always available to discuss issues relating to meetings or other matters with the Other appointments: Non-executive director of Equus Petroleum Directors.
Reasons for non-attendance are generally prior Plc, Seven Energy International Limited and Lenta Limited.
He is business and personal commitments or illness.
also a board member and treasurer of Action Aid International.
The attendance of Directors at scheduled meetings of the Board Committee memberships: Chairman of the Audit Committee which they were eligible to attend and the number of meetings and member of the Nomination Committee.
attended during 2013 is shown below: Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG Number of scheduled Board Number of Appointed to the Board: 2005 meetings eligible scheduled Board Directors during the year to attend meetings attended Nationality: British Simon Heale 5 5 Skills and experience: Lord Renwick has had a diplomatic career Oleg Novachuk 5 5 spanning over 30 years, including serving as British Ambassador Eduard Ogay 5 3 to the United States and to South Africa.
He was a non-executive 1 Philip Aiken 33 director of BHP Billiton plc, SABMiller plc, British Airways plc, 2 Lynda Armstrong 11 Liberty International plc, Fluor Corporation, Harmony Gold Mining Clinton Dines 5 5 Company Limited and Bumi plc.
Lord Renwicks diplomatic, Vladimir Kim 5 5 financial and mining experience make him a valuable contributor 3 Michael Lynch-Bell 55 to the Board.
Lord Renwick 5 5 Other appointments: Deputy chairman of Fleming Charles Watson 5 5 Family & Partners Limited and a non-executive director of 4 Daulet Yergozhin 52 Compagnie Financire Richemont SA.
He is also vice chairman, Investment Banking of J. P. Morgan Europe and vice chairman 1 Philip Aiken stood down as a Director on 31 August 2013. of J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
2 Lynda Armstrong was appointed as a Director on 21 October 2013.
3 Committee memberships: Chairman of the Remuneration Michael Lynch-Bell was appointed as a Director on 27 February 2013.
4 Committee and member of the Nomination Committee.
Daulet Yergozhin stood down as a Director on 5 December 2013. www.
com 63 Governance Report Governance Framework continued Eduard Ogay missed two Board meetings and Daulet Yergozhin Information and support missed three Board meetings due to commitments with The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible representatives of the Government of Kazakhstan.
They provided for advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring any comments to the Chairman or Company Secretary on matters that Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations to be discussed in advance of those meetings they missed.
are complied with and that due account is taken of relevant codes of best practice.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for In addition to the five scheduled meetings of the Board during the ensuring communication ows between the Board and its year, one further meeting was held which focused solely on a review committees, and between senior management and non-executive of the Groups strategy and 12 further meetings were also held, Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice from the mainly in respect of the sale of the Groups interests in ENRC PLC, Company Secretary and, in appropriate circumstances, may Ekibastuz GRES-1 and Kazhydrotechenergo LLP.
Despite these obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
meetings being held at short notice attendance levels were high.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Development On appointment, all new Directors receive a comprehensive and The Company Secretary is Robert Welch, who joined the Group structured induction tailored to their individual requirements.
The in 2006 as Deputy Company Secretary and was appointed to his induction programme, which is arranged by the Company Secretary, current position in March 2007.
He is an Associate of the Institute includes visits to some of the Groups businesses and meetings with of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and is secretary to senior managers and advisers as appropriate.
The programme is all of the Board committees, except the Audit Committee.
The designed to facilitate their understanding of the Group, the key secretary to the Audit Committee is Stephen Hodges, Deputy drivers of business performance, the role of the Board and its Company Secretary, who joined the Group in 2007 and is committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and also an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries procedures, as well as providing them with appropriate training and and Administrators.
guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public limited company.
Performance evaluation An internal Board performance evaluation process facilitated by To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there are the consultant, Lintstock Ltd, was undertaken in late 2013 early procedures in place to provide them with appropriate and timely 2014 in respect of the 2013 calendar year.
The process was carefully information, including receiving information between meetings structured but pragmatic, designed to bring about a genuine debate regarding Group business development and financial performance.
of issues that were relevant, and assist in identifying any potential for This enables them to discharge their duties on strategic, financial, improvement in the Companys processes.
It entailed the completion operational, compliance and governance issues effectively.
of tailored questionnaires on the performance of the Board, its Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular committees and its executive and non-executive Directors by each issues are provided.
During the year, the Board received briengs on Director excluding Lynda Armstrong who was appointed on changes to the Listing Rules, narrative reporting, the Takeover Code 21 October 2013 and the preparation of a composite report.
and the UK regulatory structure.
The Board sought advice from The results of the performance evaluation report were presented corporate advisers regarding the sale of assets during the year to and discussed at the February 2014 Board meeting and will be ensure the transactions were entered into in the best interests of disclosed in next years annual report and accounts.
All Directors are provided with the opportunity for, externally conducted Board performance evaluation was conducted and encouraged to attend, training to ensure they are kept up to in 2011.
Lintstock Ltd has no other connection with the Company.
date on relevant legal and financial developments or changes in As set out in last years annual report and accounts, an internal Board best practice.
Typical training for Directors includes attendance performance evaluation process was undertaken in late 2012 early at seminars, forums, conferences and working groups as well as 2013 in respect of the 2012 calendar year.
The process entailed the receiving e-mail alerts from relevant bodies providing updates completion of detailed questionnaires on the performance of the on various legal, regulatory and corporate governance matters.
Board, its committees and its executive and non-executive Directors To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of the views by each Director, which were completed in 2012. of shareholders, the Board receives regular reports on shareholder The Board questionnaire focused on: sentiment from the Head of Corporate Communications.
Although not part of their induction programme, all non-executive Directors Board composition, expertise and dynamics: can attend shareholder meetings and analyst presentations, and adequacy of information provided by management and time shareholders may meet informally with all Directors at the allocated for discussion: Annual General Meeting.
performance and composition of Board committees: the Boards strategic and operational oversight: risk management and internal control: succession planning and human resource management: the information ow and oversight on the Groups major projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay: and the priorities for improving the Boards performance in the future.
64 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report The results of the Board performance evaluation report were The Company Secretary minutes consideration of any conict or presented at the May 2013 Board meeting and it concluded that potential conict of interest and authorisations granted by the Board, the Board and its committees operated effectively.
The main and maintains a register of conicts of interest.
On an ongoing basis, areas identied for improvement were: the Directors inform the Company Secretary of any new, actual or potential conict of interest that may arise or, if there are any Board and committee composition, with a focus on expertise changes in circumstances that may affect an authorisation previously and dynamics: given.
Even when authorisation is given, a Director is not absolved greater analysis of the Companys performance against from his duty to promote the success of the Company.
peers: and Furthermore, the Companys Articles of Association include further more exposure to senior management, enabling the Board to provisions relating to condential information, attendance at Board better evaluate senior management and provide greater input meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a Director being into succession planning.
in breach of duty if a conict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conict of During the year, both Chairmen held a number of meetings with interest has previously been authorised by the Directors.
non-executive Directors without executive Directors being present.
Philip Aiken, whilst appointed as Senior Independent Director, led UK Bribery Act 2010 the Bribery Act the evaluation of the performance of Vladimir Kim as Chairman by The Bribery Act established criminal offences for: bribing another the non-executive Directors for 2012.
Michael Lynch-Bell has also person: receiving a bribe: bribing foreign officials: and failures by conducted an evaluation of the performance of Simon Heale as commercial organisations in preventing bribery.
In response to the Chairman in respect of 2013. legislation, the Group has implemented a Group Anti-Bribery and Re-election Corruption Compliance Programme to assist in the prevention of Directors newly appointed by the Board are required to submit the involvement of individuals or Group entities in unlawful activities.
themselves for election by shareholders at the annual general The Board has a clear stance on bribery and corruption and meeting following their appointment.
Lynda Armstrong, having attaches the utmost importance to the Programme in clarifying been appointed by the Board on 21 October 2013, will retire and the standards expected of all employees of the Group wherever submit herself for election at the forthcoming Annual General it conducts business.
In accordance with best practice and the Code, all other The Programme includes a clear statement on anti-bribery and Directors will be submitted for re-election at the forthcoming corruption, which is fully supported by the Board, by the use of: Annual General Meeting.
corruption risk assessments across the Group: clear and practical policies and procedures: due diligence of business partners: training: Conicts of interest and monitoring and assurance.
As part of the Programme, a number The Companies Act 2006 introduced a statutory duty requiring of Group policies have been established including an Anti-Bribery Directors to avoid situations in which they have or can have a and Corruption Code, a Facilitation Payments Policy, a Gifts direct or indirect interest that conicts or may conict with the and Hospitality Policy, a Third Party Due Diligence Compliance interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the existing Programme, a Conicts of Interest Policy and a Speak-Up Policy.
duty that a Director owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by An independent review of the adequacy of the Programme in the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association include meeting the requirements of the Bribery Act was carried out provisions giving the Directors authority to approve such situations by an external consultant, GoodCorporation, during 2012. and to allow conicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way During 2013, outcomes from the external review carried out by to the position that existed prior to the coming into force of this GoodCorporation on the Programme were reviewed.
There is no breach of duty if the relevant situation has found that since the Programme was introduced in 2011 many of been authorised in advance.
the important key compliance milestones had been accomplished The Board has a procedure for authorising a conict or potential but provided recommendations for further improvement, including conict of interest.
Under this procedure, Directors are required ensuring communication of the Programme was rolled out to to declare all directorships or other appointments outside of the the wider workforce and for the programme to evolve into Group which could give rise to a conict or potential conict of a cross-functional issue.
The Group has sought to work on the interest.
In consideration of each conict or potential conict of recommendations and during the year a number of actions interest declared by a Director, rstly, only independent Directors were taken to enhance and further embed the Programme.
will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider to be in good faith and will most likely promote the Companys success.
In addition, the Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if appropriate.
com 65 Governance Report Governance Framework continued monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting system, Accountability including monthly results, periodic short-term forecasts, The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Annual annual budgets and medium-term plans: Report and Accounts present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
well-dened procedures for appraisal, approval, control and monitoring of major capital projects, including acquisitions Internal control and disposals: The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of an established methodology for ranking the level of risk in the significant risks the Group is willing to take in order to achieve each of its business operations and the significant risk issues its strategic objectives and at the same time maintain sound risk associated therewith: management and internal control systems.
The Board has established implementation of appropriate strategies to deal with a Group-wide system of internal control which identies, evaluates significant risks, including measures such as insurance and and manages the significant risks associated with the Groups use of external specialists: achievement of its business objectives, with a view to safeguarding a centrally coordinated internal audit programme to support shareholders investments and the Groups assets.
This system is the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment: bespoke to the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and Due to the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, effectiveness of internal control: this system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against regular reports to the Projects Assurance Committee material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the Groups on progress against targets of the Groups major projects system of internal control is reviewed by the Board annually.
at Bozshakol and Aktogay: and The Board confirms that, throughout the year ended 31 December a remuneration policy for executives which motivates them, 2013 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and without delivering excessive benets or encouraging Accounts, there have been processes in place to identify, evaluate excessive risk-taking.
and manage the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance The Board, in conjunction with management, continues to review with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Company is aware that the FRC and develop the internal control environment where appropriate.
has published, in late 2013, a consultation on proposed changes to It is Group policy that all acquired businesses are brought within the Turnbull Guidance.
The Company will review any changes to the the Groups system of internal control as soon as practicable and Turnbull Guidance when published and amend its internal control in any event within 12 months of acquisition.
ENRC PLC, in which and risk management policies and procedures accordingly.
the Group had a 26% shareholding until 8 November 2013, was The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the never incorporated into the Groups system of internal control.
Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups approach to risk management and how it proles the To identify and manage key risks, the Board has: established a risks it has identied is set out in the Risk Management Overview number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards: set section on pages 18 and 19. up a framework for reporting matters of signicance: authorised the Audit Committee to review the Groups approach to risk Internal audit management and the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, Internal audit advises management on the extent to which systems internal control and assurance systems: developed a system of of internal control are adequate and effective to manage business regular reports from management: and has reserved specic risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure compliance with key matters for its decision.
The process is designed to provide legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance assurance by way of cumulative assessment.
on risk and controls to senior management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
All of the Groups internal control and corporate governance policies and procedures are contained in a single document entitled Internal audits work is focused on the Groups significant risks and Group Policy Guidelines on Corporate Governance with the aim the Head of Internal Audit and the Group Risk Manager work to promote a culture of pragmatic corporate governance through closely when considering the internal audits to be performed.
The raising awareness of the policies and procedures amongst mandate and programme of work of the internal audit department senior management.
is approved by the Audit Committee.
Based on the approved audit plan, a number of internal audits took place across the Groups Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which operations and functions to facilitate improvement of the Groups have operated throughout the year are: internal controls and report findings to relevant operational Group financial, treasury, operating, compliance and management.
The Head of Internal Audit reports regularly to administrative policies and procedures which incorporate the Audit Committee and the chairman of the Audit Committee statements of required behaviour: is responsible for reviewing the remuneration of the Head of Internal Audit.
continuous review of safety, operating and financial performance of the Groups businesses: The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal regular reports to the Board and Group Health, Safety Audit on the departments work and findings, and the effectiveness and Environment Committee on health, safety and of internal audits are reviewed and discussed on an annual basis with environmental matters: the Head of Internal Audit.
66 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal As recommended by the Code, all resolutions were voted controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve separately and the voting results, which included all votes cast for, the issues raised.
Internal audit follows up on the implementation against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to of recommendations and reports progress to senior management the meeting, were announced to the London Stock Exchange and and the Audit Committee.
Hong Kong Stock Exchange and made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
As in previous years, the Form of Proxy clearly advises that a vote withheld is Relations with shareholders not a vote in law and is not used in calculating the votes for or Dialogue with shareholders against a resolution.
The Board recognises the importance of good communications with shareholders and maintains an active dialogue with its key Board committees financial audiences, including institutional shareholders, sell-side The four principal committees of the Board are: the Audit: Group analysts and potential shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Health, Safety and Environment: Nomination: and Remuneration Chief Financial Officer are closely involved in investor relations Committees.
Board committee members are appointed by the and the Head of Corporate Communications has day-to-day Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, responsibility for such matters.
which reviews the composition of each committee regularly.
The committee memberships are spread between the independent The executive Directors are available, through the Head of non-executive Directors, drawing on each of their relevant Corporate Communications, to discuss the concerns of major skills and experience.
shareholders at any time during the year and the Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders.
Committee members are expected to attend each committee Non-executive Directors make themselves available to attend meeting, unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent meetings with shareholders in order to develop an understanding them from doing so.
Only members of the committees are entitled of their views.
The Company responds as necessary to requests to attend their meetings, but others may attend at the request of from individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
There is regular dialogue with key institutional shareholders, The terms of reference of each committee are available on fund managers and sell-side analysts to discuss strategy, financial the Companys website www.
com and on request performance and investment activities throughout the Group, from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
who also from time to time visit the Groups operations.
During The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed annually.
2013, executive Directors and senior management met with Board committee membership institutional investors in the United Kingdom, continental Europe, The current membership of the Boards committees is shown Canada, United States of America, China, Hong Kong and in the table below: Singapore, and attended several conferences in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and United States of America providing Group Health, a comprehensive dialogue with shareholders.
Safety and Audit Environment Nomination Remuneration The Company issues quarterly production updates normally in Committee Committee Committee Committee January, April, July and October and interim management statements Simon Heale M C M normally in April and October.
These, together with copies of Oleg Novachuk institutional analyst presentations each half year, the Groups Eduard Ogay preliminary and half-yearly results and all announcements issued Lynda Armstrong M M to the London Stock Exchange and Hong Kong Stock Exchange Clinton Dines M M in English and in Chinese, are available on the Companys Vladimir Kim website www.
Michael Lynch-Bell C M General Meetings Lord Renwick M C The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all Charles Watson M C M shareholders at least 20 business days prior to such a meeting and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions.
All shareholders C: Chairman of committee are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting where there M: Member of committee is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and, through him, the chairmen of the principal Board committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can meet informally with the Directors.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the Companys activities for the previous year to shareholders.
All resolutions at the 2013 annual general meeting were voted on by way of a poll.
The procedure for voting on a poll follows best practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
com 67 Governance Report Governance Framework continued Responsibilities Audit Committee The Board relies on the Audit Committee to provide effective governance over financial reporting, internal control and assurance processes, together with the identication and management of risk.
The current members of the Committee are: Michael Lynch-Bell, Chairman Clinton Dines Charles Watson The primary responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the diagram below.
Whilst the Committee has very specic duties set out in its terms of reference, it serves a much greater purpose in reassuring shareholders that their interests are properly protected in respect of the Companys financial management and reporting, Michael Lynch-Bell, Chairman on which the Committee regularly reports to the Board.
The Committee has delegated responsibility to oversee the Companys Dear fellow shareholder, procedures and systems in relation to risk management, with a My first duty is to thank my predecessor, Simon Heale, for his focus on the methodology used by management.
contribution to the development of the Committee over the Governance course of the last six years.
As Chairman of the Company, Michael Lynch-Bell has recent and relevant financial experience: Simon continues to attend Committee meetings at its invitation his biography is set out on page 24.
The other members of the and I value his wise counsel.
Committee, Clinton Dines and Charles Watson, have broad During 2013, the Committee has reviewed the Groups financial commercial experience and knowledge of international businesses results, including any impairments identied by management, which they bring to the Committees deliberations.
The Chairman the Groups system of internal control, the management of the of the Board, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Company Groups risks, as well as monitoring the internal audit function Secretary, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor are and overseeing our relationship with the external auditor.
normally invited to attend Committee meetings.
There have also been a number of transactions which we have considered including the financial effects of the disposal of the At the end of each meeting the Committee normally meet Groups interest in ENRC PLC, Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP and separately with both the external auditor and Head of Internal Kazhydrotechenergo LLP.
Audit, without management present, to discuss any matter relating to its remit and any issues arising from external and internal audits.
In my role as chairman of the Committee I have met with our external auditors, KPMG, outside of the normal meeting Following a formal, competitive tender process for the provision schedule and with various senior managers to increase my of external audit services conducted in 2012, the Board approved understanding of the Group.
I intend to continue with this the Committees recommendation to appoint KPMG Audit Plc process throughout my chairmanship in order to deepen as external auditor of the Group.
my knowledge of the Group, the risks it faces and its internal KPMG Audit Plc has informed the Company that it wishes to control framework.
formally change the entity which conducts the Companys audit from KPMG Audit Plc to KPMG LLP.
Therefore, KPMG Audit Plc will not Finally, I would also like to acknowledge the excellent work of stand for re-appointment at the Companys forthcoming Annual the Projects Assurance Committee in identifying and monitoring General Meeting, and instead KPMG LLP will seek appointment the activities critical to the successful commissioning of the as the Companys auditors at this meeting.
The Audit Committee Groups major projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
has recommended, and the Board has approved, resolutions to be Michael Lynch-Bell proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to appoint Chairman, Audit Committee KPMG LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration.
Audit Committee responsibilities Overseeing the Monitoring the Reviewing and monitoring Reviewing the Groups relationship with the effectiveness of the the integrity of internal control and risk external auditor Groups internal financial reporting by management systems audit function the Company 68 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report Attendance at Audit Committee meetings Internal control During 2013, there were seven scheduled meetings of the reviewed the design and effectiveness of the Groups system of Audit Committee, including two scheduled meetings which were internal control as set out on pages 66 and 67 and the disclosures convened to discuss one item of business only, the financial made in the Annual Report and Accounts on this matter: disclosures in the interim management statements, with each reviewed and recommended to the Board amendments member attending as shown below: to the Group Treasury Policy: Attendance at reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information to the scheduled meetings during external auditor and the statement concerning such disclosure in Members Committee member since 2013 the Annual Report and Accounts: Michael Lynch-Bell 27 February 2013 6 6 received a presentation on the controls and assurance plan Clinton Dines 1 October 2009 7 7 over mining reserves and resources: and 1 Simon Heale 1 January 2007 4 4 received reports from the Projects Assurance Committee.
Charles Watson 24 August 2011 7 7 1 Risk management Simon Heale stood down as chairman of the Committee on 17 May 2013 following his appointment as Chairman of the Company and was succeeded reviewed the risk management activities undertaken in order by Michael Lynch-Bell.
to identify, measure and assess the Groups significant risks: reviewed and challenged the Groups significant risks identied Role of the Audit Committee by management in the Group risk map, and reviewed the Key roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: effectiveness of the Group risk management framework as monitoring and challenging, where necessary, the integrity of the described on pages 18 and 19, and reports arising out of the financial statements of the annual and half-yearly results, interim risk management process: and management statements and any other formal announcement monitored the Groups significant insurance arrangements and relating to financial performance, including a review of the reviewed the Groups insurance broking arrangements.
financial reporting judgements which they contain: reviewing the Companys internal financial controls, internal Internal audit control and risk management systems: approved the annual operational plan and reviewed reports monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal from the internal audit department relating to control matters: audit function: received a presentation on the results of an internal audit carried overseeing the work of the Projects Assurance Committee: out by GoodCorporation on the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance Programme: and establishing and overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditor, including the monitoring of their independence agreed to engage external specialists to assist the internal audit and expertise, the terms of reference of their engagement and department in connection with specialist audits including fees, and assessing the effectiveness of the audit process: anti-bribery and corruption, and health and safety.
agreeing the scope of the external auditors annual audit plan and External auditor reviewing the output: approved the terms of engagement of the external auditor, the considering and making recommendations to the Board on the fees paid to them and the scope of work carried out by them: appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor: and performed an annual review of the policies on the independence reviewing annually the Committees own performance, and objectivity of the external auditor, the use of the external constitution and terms of reference.
auditor for non-audit services, and the employment of former A copy of the Committees terms of reference are available employees of the external auditor: on the Companys website www.
reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor in respect of the 2012 financial year: Activities in 2013 At its meetings in 2013, the Committee considered and discharged assessed the independence and objectivity of the external auditor its responsibilities on the following matters: and in this process reviewed a report from the external auditor on all relationships that might reasonably have a bearing on their Financial reporting independence and the audit partner and staffs objectivity, and the reviewed annual and half-yearly results and interim management related safeguards and procedures: statements, including accounting policies, significant financial received reports on the findings of the external auditor during reporting estimates and judgements applied in preparing them their half-yearly review and annual audit and reviewed the and the transparency and clarity of the disclosures within them: recommendations made to management by the external auditor received reports from management and the external auditor and managements responses: on accounting, financial reporting and taxation issues: reviewed the quality assurance processes of the external auditor: considered impairment reviews performed by management considered the report of a review by the FRCs Audit Quality in relation to the Groups investments: Review Team of KPMGs audit of the Companys financial reviewed the methodology for producing the disclosure of statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 and challenged mining reserves and resources and other relevant disclosures KPMG on its findings: in the Annual Report and Accounts: and reviewed letters of representation to the external auditor: and reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts on a going concern basis.
recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor.
com 69 Governance Report Governance Framework continued Other matters which may be provided by the external auditor must be approved reviewed reports on changes to UK and Kazakhstan tax legislation: in advance by the Committee or a sub-committee of any two members, with any services up to a limit of 20,000 being approved reviewed the Speak-Up policy as well as the independent and by the Chief Financial Officer.
In addition, any non-audit services in condential arrangements in place by which staff may raise excess of 100,000 must be subject to a competitive tender process.
concerns about possible legal, regulatory or other improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other matters: The policy requires that non-audit services of the external auditor received reports on matters raised via the Speak-Up facilities, will only be used where the Group benets in a cost-effective the process for the investigation of those matters raised, the manner and the external auditor maintains the necessary degree of outcome of the investigation and any actions taken: independence and objectivity.
Details of all non-audit services are reported to the Committee twice a year.
The policy is kept under received an update from management on the latest technical review and may be amended from time to time as necessary.
accounting and regulatory issues: approved the appointment of the external auditor to provide Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and non-audit services in relation to the sale of the Groups interest in non-audit services for the year ended 31 December 2013 and ENRC PLC, Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP and Kazhydrotechenergo LLP: information on the nature of non-audit fees appear in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements on page 128. reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the performance evaluation of the Committee: and Projects Assurance Committee reviewed the training requirements of the Committee members.
During 2012, the Audit Committee considered and approved the establishment of a sub-committee, the Projects Assurance Committee, Policy on the provision of non-audit services for the purpose of assisting the Audit Committee in procuring third The Committees policy on the use of the external auditor for party, independent operational and financial assessments of the non-audit services includes the identication of non-audit services Groups major growth projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
The which may be provided and those prohibited, and a process through Projects Assurance Committee currently comprises Charles Watson which other non-audit services may be approved.
The policy chairman, Oleg Novachuk and Lynda Armstrong and met four times requires any new engagement with the external auditor for during 2013.
The significant issues the Projects Assurance Committee non-audit services in excess of 100,000 to be approved in advance considered during 2013 related to reviewing the performance of the by the Chief Financial Officer and the Committee chairman or a contractor at Bozshakol and Aktogay, the appointment of an additional sub-committee of any two members, with any non-audit services up contractor at Bozshakol and the monitoring of capital expenditure to a limit of 100,000 being approved by the Chief Financial Officer.
The chairman of the Projects Assurance Any project or engagement with the external auditor in excess of Committee reported on its activities to the next Audit Committee 20,000 that is not included in the list of those non-audit services meeting following each of its meetings.
significant issues considered by the Committee The Committee considered, amongst other matters, a number of significant issues in relation to the financial reporting of the Group, including: significant issues Committee actions Impairments As the Groups net asset value was below its market value at The Committee considered papers setting out the results of 31 December 2013, management performed an impairment the impairment reviews and managements assessment and review of certain of the Groups cash generating units, for assumptions.
Having received input from the external which there were indicators of impairment.
The impairment auditor and challenged the appropriateness of key review resulted in an impairment being recognised in respect assumptions used by management in the discounted cash of the full carrying value of the Zhezkazgan Region as well as ow models and evaluated the sensitivity of the outcomes on specic assets which had been suspended or their of the reviews, the Committee agreed with managements intended use changed during the year.
Determination of ore reserves As a result of the impairment of the Zhezkazgan Region, The Committee considered a paper setting out the results of management proposed to exclude its ore reserves as they did managements assessment.
Having received input from the not meet the denition of JORC compliant reserves.
Groups mining consultants, IMC, the Committee agreed with managements view that the ore reserves of the Zhezkazgan Region should be excluded from the Groups ore reserves as disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts.
70 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report significant issues Committee actions Disability benets provision The provision for disability benets, which is established on an The Committee considered papers prepared by management actuarial basis, was re-assessed by management at 31 December outlining the assumptions applied in the actuarial valuation and 2013 following the failure of previous insurance arrangements, the recognition of the liability for future disability payments the purchase of a new insurance policy covering 2013 claimants, for employees covered by previous insurance contracts.
the addition of new claimants and revisions to the actuarial Having challenged management on their proposed approach, assumptions.
the Committee concurred with managements proposed accounting treatment and disclosure.
Disposal of the Groups investment in ENRC PLC Following the Boards decision to accept the offer from Having considered the broader risks of the transaction not Eurasian Resources Group B. V. to acquire the Groups 26% proceeding and the fact that the offer did not reect the shareholding in ENRC PLC on 24 June 2013, management fundamental value of the investment, as assessed by the proposed that the investment be reclassied as held for sale Directors and the Groups advisors, the Committee agreed and impaired by $823 million to the net sales proceeds.
with managements assessment of the reclassication, This indicated that the investment may have been impaired impairment and the associated disclosures.
prior to acceptance of the offer.
Sale of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP and Kazhydrotechenergo LLP Following the Boards decision to accept an offer from SamrukHaving considered the likelihood of the transaction Energo in relation to the sale of the Groups shareholding in completing within 12 months of the balance sheet date Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP and Kazhydrotechenergo LLP on and having received input from the external auditor, 5 December 2013, management proposed to reclassify the assets the Committee agreed with managements approach.
as held for sale and cease to equity account for the Groups share of the results of Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP from that date.
Excess profits tax Owing to uncertainties over the recoverability of $48 million The Committee considered a paper setting out the facts of excess profits tax paid in prior years due to the right to surrounding the recoverability of the $48 million of excess a refund being open to further legal challenge by the tax profits tax paid in prior years and concurred with authorities in Kazakhstan, the Committee considered the managements accounting treatment and disclosure.
accounting treatment of the refund.
Tax contingencies Owing to the evolving nature of tax legislation in Kazakhstan, The Committee considered a paper setting out the results management is required to make judgements and estimates of managements assessment.
Having received input from in relation to tax risks, the outcomes of which can be less the external auditor and challenged the judgements taken, predictable than in many other jurisdictions.
The Committee the Committee agreed with managements assessment of the considered managements provisions for tax based on its best provision to be recognised in respect of tax and uncertain tax estimate of the probable cash payments needed to settle positions, and the associated disclosures.
claims arising from tax audits completed in 2011.
Going concern The appropriateness of preparing the Groups financial The Committee considered papers prepared by management statements on a going concern basis.
and, taking into account the external auditors review of the papers and their assumptions, concluded that managements recommendation to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis was appropriate.
com 71 Governance Report Governance Framework continued Responsibilities Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee The current members of the Committee are: Charles Watson, Chairman Lynda Armstrong Clinton Dines Simon Heale The Committee is primarily responsible for keeping under review the development and maintenance of a framework of policies and standards for identifying, assessing, managing and reporting health, safety and environmental risks and their impacts on the Groups activities.
All meetings of the Committee during the year were held in Kazakhstan and involved meetings with management responsible Charles Watson, Chairman for health and safety, with all visits lasting for two or three days.
Attendance at Group Health, Safety and Environment Dear fellow shareholder, Committee meetings I would like to thank my predecessor, Philip Aiken, for his strong There were three scheduled meetings of the Group Health, Safety leadership of the Committee over the last five years.
Under his and Environment Committee during 2013, with each member chairmanship Kazakhmys has made significant strides to improve attending as shown below: health and safety management and develop a safety-first culture.
The Committee was strengthened during the year with the Attendance at appointments of Simon Heale and Lynda Armstrong as members, scheduled both of whom bring strong credentials and a challenging and meetings during Members Committee member since 2013 constructive mindset to the activities of the Committee.
1 Charles Watson 16 November 2011 3 3 Kazakhmys recognises that the highest practicable standards of 2 Philip Aiken 11 November 2006 1 1 health, safety and environmental practices are vital to its success Clinton Dines 25 August 2010 2 3 and a key responsibility for all employees.
The role of the Lynda Armstrong 21 October 2013 1 1 Committee is to assist the Board in overseeing managements Simon Heale 13 March 2013 3 3 processes, standards and strategies for managing health, safety 1 and environmental commitments and responsibilities.
2 Stood down as a Director and member of the Committee on 31 August 2013.
During the year, the Committees agenda covered a range of health, safety and environmental issues including working at height, roof Clinton Dines missed one Committee meeting and provided collapse, contact with energy sources, ventilation, personal protective comments to the Committee chairman and the Company Secretary equipment, training and skills, vehicle management, pedestrian safety, on matters to be discussed in advance of the meeting missed.
energy use and air emissions.
The Committee also addressed leadership behaviour and cultural change issues during its meetings.
Role of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee Key roles and responsibilities of the Group Health, Safety and Following my appointment as chairman, I undertook a detailed Environment Committee include: review of the future role and direction of the Committee, involving a questionnaire and interviews with each member, as well as keeping under review the development and maintenance of Oleg Novachuk and Eduard Ogay, to ensure the Committee was a framework of policies and standards for managing health, positioned to meet its remit in an effective manner going forward.
safety and environmental risks and their impacts on the This resulted in a number of changes to the format of the Groups activities: Committee meetings which I hope will enhance further its reviewing compliance by the Group with relevant health, performance going forward.
safety and environmental legislation: In line with the Committees approach to keeping abreast of site assessing the impact of health, safety and environmental operations and procedures, and furthering its understanding of the decisions and actions taken by the Group on its reputation, Groups safety culture, the Committee visited the South Mine, employees, communities, stakeholders, and ensuring remedial Konyrat Mine and the Balkhash concentrator in 2013.
We met with action is taken where appropriate: locally based staff and contractors to understand better the risks monitoring and assessing the commitment and behaviour faced by employees, contractors, the environment and the of management toward managing health, safety and Group facilities.
 risks: Charles Watson reviewing significant safety incidents and considering the Chairman, Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee key causes, consequences and ensuring actions and communications are made by management to prevent similar incidents occurring in the future: 72 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report facilitate the promotion by management of a culture of care Nomination Committee and sensitivity towards the environments and communities in which the Group operates: making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding appropriate health, safety and environmental performance objectives for executive Directors and certain senior managers and, in due course, providing its assessment as to performance against such objectives: reviewing the findings of any internal or external reports on the Groups health, safety and environmental systems, assessing any strategies and action plans developed by management in response to issues raised and, where appropriate, making recommendations to the Board on such matters: and reviewing annually the Committees own performance, Simon Heale, Chairman constitution and terms of reference.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Dear fellow shareholder, Companys website www.
I became chairman of the Nomination Committee in May 2013, following my appointment as Chairman of the Company.
I would like Activities in 2013 to thank my predecessor, Vladimir Kim, for his excellent leadership At its meetings in 2013, the Committee considered, amongst of the Committee since Kazakhmys listed in 2005. other matters, the following: The Nomination Committee has had a very busy year, securing the reviewed and evaluated fatal and serious incident reports appointment of two non-executive Directors and recommending to through the Fatal and Serious Incidents Review Panel: the Board changes to the composition of the Board committees and reviewed the outcomes of a safety culture assessment the appointment of a new senior independent director as well as my conducted by DuPont: recruitment as Chairman.
Details of the recruitment process of Michael Lynch-Bell and myself were set out in the 2012 annual monitored compliance with environmental permits: report and accounts, with other changes to the Board and its reviewed a number of energy saving initiatives at captive committees set out later in this report.
power plants: When recruiting non-executive Directors, the Committee evaluates monitored and evaluated a number of key safety and the particular skills, knowledge, independence, experience and environmental initiatives working at height, roof fall, diversity, including gender, that would benefit and balance the Board contact with energy sources, ventilation, personal protective most appropriately for each appointment.
For the recruitment of equipment, training and skills, vehicle management and Lynda Armstrong, Spencer Stuart, who specialise in the recruitment pedestrian safety : of high calibre executive and non-executive candidates, were reviewed and evaluated reports on the implementation and engaged to ensure the widest possible pool of candidates was effectiveness of a number of health, safety and environmental available to choose from.
I managed the relationship with Spencer policies and procedures, as well as assessed performance Stuart and they provide no other recruitment services to the against the Groups five year health and safety management Company.
Lynda was recommended to the Board on the basis that plan and five year environmental plan: she fully met the criteria required, including having sufficient time to monitored the performance of DuPont, third party consultant: meet the requirements of the role.
received reports on matters raised and actions taken in respect The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the composition of calls made to the Trust Hot Line and the Speak-Up helpline of the Board, its committees and the succession planning of the on the process for the investigation of those matters raised, non-executive Directors in respect of skills, knowledge, experience the outcome of the investigation and any actions taken: and general diversity.
reviewed and provided guidance on changes to the Groups By identifying and recommending candidates with the necessary cardinal rules for underground mining, open cast mining, range of skills and experience as Directors, the Committee aims to smelters, concentrators and power stations: ensure that the Board and its committees are t for purpose and provided guidance to management on the development able to meet any challenges that are brought before them.
of a health and safety strategy: Simon Heale reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the Chairman, Nomination Committee performance evaluation of the Committee: and reviewed the future role and direction of the Committee.
com 73 Governance Report Governance Framework continued Responsibilities Role of the Nomination Committee The current members of the Committee are: Key roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: Simon Heale, Chairman regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition Michael Lynch-Bell including skills, experience, independence, knowledge and Lord Renwick diversity, including gender of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors for Board appointments and for keeping under review the balance and certain senior managers, taking into account the challenges of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity, and opportunities facing the Company, and the skills and including gender, on the Board to ensure the orderly evolution expertise needed on the Board in the future: of the membership of the Board.
responsibility for identifying and nominating for the approval The Committee, which provides a formal and transparent of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, they arise: generally consults with external consultants and advisers on before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluating the prospective Board appointments.
The Committee keeps under balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and review the planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and diversity, including gender, on the Board, and, in light of this its committees, prepares a description of the specic experience evaluation, preparing a description of the role and capabilities and skills needed for an appointment, considers candidates put required for a particular appointment: forward by external consultants, and recommends to the Board the appointment of all Directors after having met short-listed keeping under review the Directors existing and any new candidates.
It also supervises and puts into place succession planning conicts of interest and making recommendations as to for non-executive Directors and certain senior managers and, whether the conict should be authorised: where appropriate, recommends to the Board Directors keeping under review the leadership needs of the Company, conicts of interest for authorisation.
both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively Governance in the marketplace: The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Company, whilst reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation he is not deemed to be independent, the majority of the members process that relates to the composition of the Board and of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors in reviewing annually the time commitments required from accordance with the provisions of the Code.
For matters which the non-executive Directors to full their duties: concern the Chairman, he would remove himself from meetings, and Michael Lynch-Bell would chair.
reviewing annually the Committees own performance, constitution and terms of reference: Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings formulating Board succession planning: There were three scheduled meetings of the Nomination recommending to the Board suitable candidates for the role Committee during 2013 with each member attending as of Senior Independent Director, and membership of the shown below: Audit, Group Health, Safety and Environment, and Attendance at Remuneration Committees: scheduled meetings during recommending the re-appointment of any non-executive Members Committee member since 2013 Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office Simon Heale 1 January 2007 3 3 having given regard to their performance and ability to continue 1 Philip Aiken 1 November 2006 2 2 to contribute to the Board in the light of the skills, experience, 2 Vladimir Kim 1 October 2005 1 1 independence and knowledge required: and Michael Lynch-Bell 1 September 2013 1 1 recommending the re-election by shareholders of any Director Lord Renwick 1 December 2005 3 3 in accordance with the provisions of the Code having due regard 1 to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Stood down as a Director and a member of the Committee on 31 August 2013.
2 Board in the light of the skills, experience and knowledge required Stood down as a member of the Committee on 17 May 2013. and the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
74 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report Activities in 2013 The key stages of the recruitment process are set out below.
At its meetings in 2013, the Committee considered, amongst other matters, the following: Recruitment process the appointment of a new non-executive Chairman: following Philip Aiken standing down as a Director, the appointment of Michael Lynch-Bell as Senior Vacancy identied Independent Director: the appointments of Simon Heale as chairman of the Prepare candidate prole and position specication Nomination Committee and as a member of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee, Michael Lynch-Bell as Enlist search agency chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee, and Charles Watson as chairman of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee Long list of candidates and a member of the Remuneration Committee: following extensive research into potential candidates, Lynda Armstrong was appointed a non-executive Director and a Individual interviews with chairman of the Nomination Committee member of the Remuneration Committee in October 2013: in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, recommended to the Board the election of Michael Lynch-Bell Interviews with members of the Nomination Committee and re-election of all other Directors by shareholders at the 2013 and Chief Executive annual general meeting having due regard to the performance and ability for each Director to continue to contribute to the Board and its committees: Short list of candidates reviewed the time commitment required by non-executive Directors to full their duties: and Recommendation by the Nomination Committee reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the to the Board performance evaluation of the Committee.
Appointment approved by Board Recruitment process Lynda Armstrong New independent non-executive Director Following Philip Aiken standing down as a Director, the Nomination Committee, led by the chairman, commenced the process to identify a new non-executive Director.
Spencer Stuart was appointed as the executive search consultant to assist the Committee in this process.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the Company.
A formal, rigorous and transparent search process was put in place with a candidate prole and position specication prepared, including time commitment expected and experience required.
Spencer Stuart presented the chairman with a list of candidates and the chairman held interviews with a number of candidates.
A short list of three candidates was identied and interviews were conducted with the chairman, the other members of the Committee and the Chief Executive.
The Committee put forward their recommendation to the Board and the Board approved the appointment of Lynda Armstrong with effect from 21 October 2013.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Code, Lynda Armstrong will submit herself for election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
