Strategic Report Board of Directors Experienced leadership Simon Heale Oleg Novachuk Directors experience Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive 7 Appointed to the Board: 2007 Appointed to the Board: 2005 2 Nationality: British Nationality: Kazakhstani Skills and experience: Simon Heale has Skills and experience: Oleg Novachuk 3 significant global marketing and business joined the Group in 2001 and was appointed operations and management experience Chief Executive in 2007, having been Finance having been chief operating officer of Jardine Director since 2005.
He was formerly vice 6 Fleming Limited, deputy managing director of president of financial projects for Kazakhmys Cathay Pacic Airways and chief executive Corporation LLC and the financial adviser to Metals and mining of The London Metal Exchange.
He has also the president of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, Finance been a non-executive director and chairman and chairman of the board of directors of Oil and gas of Panmure Gordon & Co plc, and a Kazprombank JSC.
Health and safety non-executive director of PZ Cussons plc.
Other appointments: Chairman of Gulf Marine Services and a non-executive director of Morgan Advanced Materials PLC, Coats plc and Marex Spectron Group Limited.
Directors nationality He is also a trustee and treasurer of Macmillan 5 Cancer Support.
1 Committee memberships: Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member of the Group Health, Safety and Environment, and Remuneration Committees.
3 British Kazakhstani Australian Eduard Ogay Michael Lynch-Bell Length of tenure of independent Executive Director Non-executive Director and Senior non-executive Directors Independent Director Appointed to the Board: 2011 3 Appointed to the Board: 27 February 2013 Nationality: Kazakhstani Nationality: British Skills and experience: Eduard Ogay was 1 appointed as an executive Director in 2011, Skills and experience: Michael Lynch-Bell has having joined the Group in 2001 as director extensive experience in the mining, oil and gas of marketing and international relations, industries having spent his whole 38 year career becoming director of corporate development with Ernst & Young developing and later 1 in 2005.
He was appointed chief executive leading its global mining and energy practices.
officer of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, During his time with Ernst & Young, he played 0-3 Years the Groups principal subsidiary, in 2006, a key role in establishing Ernst & Youngs 3-6 Years a position he continues to retain.
practice in Kazakhstan and advised a number 6-9 Years of major CIS companies on transactions.
He retired as senior partner of Ernst & Youngs transaction advisory practice for mining and metals and as an elected member of its global advisory council in June 2012.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of Equus Petroleum Plc, Seven Energy International Limited and Lenta Limited.
He is also a board member and treasurer of Action Aid International.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Nomination Committee.
24 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report For more information see pages 60 Governance Framework 67 Board Committees Lynda Armstrong OBE Clinton Dines Vladimir Kim Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 21 October 2013 Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2005 Nationality: British Nationality: Australian Nationality: Kazakhstani Skills and experience: Lynda Armstrong, a Skills and experience: Clinton Dines has Skills and experience: Vladimir Kim joined geophysicist by training, has over 30 years been involved in business in China since 1980, the Group in 1995, when he was appointed natural resources experience with Shell.
including senior positions with the Jardine managing director and chief executive officer During her time with Shell she held a number Matheson Group, Santa Fe Transport Group of Zhezkazgantsvetmet JSC and was elected of senior exploration and operational roles, and Asia Securities Venture Capital.
In 1988, chairman of the board of directors of that including Director UK Exploration and New he joined BHP as their senior executive in company in 2000.
He was appointed Chairman Business Development, Exploration Director China and, following the merger of BHP and of the Company in 2005 prior to its listing on of Petroleum Development Oman and Billiton in 2001, became president, BHP Billiton the London Stock Exchange.
With extensive Technical Vice President for Shell International.
China, a position from which he retired in knowledge of the mining industry, a thorough 2009 prior to joining Kazakhmys.
He brings working knowledge of the CIS and an Other appointments: Chair of the trustees exceptional knowledge of China combined exemplary understanding of the political and of the British Safety Council, a non-executive with global resource industry and management regulatory environment in Kazakhstan, Vladimir director of the Central Europe Oil Company experience.
He was previously a member of Kim brings extensive Kazakh mining experience Limited and director of Calyx Consulting Ltd. the advisory board of Pacic Aluminium.
and effective Board management skills.
Vladimir Committee memberships: Member of the Kim stepped down as Chairman in May 2013, Other appointments: Executive chairman, Group Health, Safety and Environment, but remains on the Board as a non-executive Asia of Caledonia Private Investments Pty and Remuneration Committees.
Director and executive chairman of Limited and a non-executive director of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
Zanaga Iron Ore Company Limited.
Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, and Group Health, Safety and Environment Committees.
Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG Charles Watson Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2005 Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: British Nationality: British Skills and experience: Lord Renwick has had Skills and experience: Charles Watson has a diplomatic career spanning over 30 years, an extensive background in both operational including serving as British Ambassador to the management and major project delivery, United States and to South Africa.
He was a having spent 29 years at Shell.
During his time non-executive director of BHP Billiton plc, at Shell he held a number of senior executive SABMiller plc, British Airways plc, Liberty positions throughout the world, culminating in International plc, Fluor Corporation, Harmony his appointment as executive vice president Gold Mining Company Limited and Bumi plc.
covering Russia and the CIS, including oversight Lord Renwicks diplomatic, financial and mining of Shells activities in Kazakhstan, chairman experience make him a valuable contributor of Shell Russia and chairman of the board to the Board.
of directors for the Sakhalin Energy Investment Company.
Other appointments: Deputy chairman of Fleming Family & Partners Limited and Other appointments: Non-executive director a non-executive director of Compagnie of Taipan Resources Inc. and JSOC Bashneft.
He is also Committee memberships: Chairman of vice chairman, Investment Banking the Group Health, Safety and Environment of J. P. Morgan Europe and vice chairman Committee and member of the Audit and of J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Nomination Committee.
