KCOM Group PLC Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2012 13 from Kathy Smith, Company Secretary The performance evaluation process this yearindicated the mutual respect among Board members which encourages an open environment for challenge and debate.
Appointment and replacement of Directors hesitation in proposing the re-appointment of resolution with special notice before the expiration In accordance with Provision B.
7.1 of the UK the entire Board.
of their period of office.
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has resolved that all of the Directors will be In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Independence standing for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
Board may appoint a new Director at any time but All three of the Non-Executive Directors are the new Director will only hold office until the next considered to be independent in relation to The Nomination Committee, and the Board Annual General Meeting AGM at which point thecriteria set out in Provision B.
1.1 of the asa whole, has reviewed the performance they must stand for election or vacate the office.
UKCorporate Governance Code and the andcontribution of each Director and has no The Articles of Association state also that the NAPFCorporate Governance Voting Policy Company may remove a Director by ordinary andGuidelines.
The combined roles of Chairman and ChiefExecutive In July 2009 Bill Halbert was appointed as our Executive Chairman, combining the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Given the particular circumstances of the Group at the time, the decision to combine the two roles was taken, with the support of our largest shareholders, to provide strong leadership through a period of transformation for the business.
The intention at the time of appointment was for the dual role to be maintained throughout the transformation, which had been anticipated to take a period of approximately two years.
However, in the face of a continued economic downturn, it became clear that the full transformation would take longer and so in both 2011 and 2012, consultation with our largest shareholders indicated that there was strong support for Bill to continue in his dual role.
This reflected the strong performance that the Group has delivered under Bills leadership and the desire to ensure that Bill continued to lead the business through the early stages of our growth plan.
The combined role is regularly reviewed by the Nomination Committee and discussed with our largest shareholders and we believe that the dual role continues to be in the best interests of the Group, while not inhibiting the performance of the Board in any way.
We will continue to review this and to consult with our largest shareholders in the coming year.
The combined role is in breach of Provision A.
2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The main principle of the Code, which is supported by Provision A.
2.1, isThere should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for the running of the Companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
To ensure that we comply with this principle while combining the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive, we have put the following measures in place: we have a strong Board, which includes experienced Non-Executive Directors.
Our Senior Independent Director, Tony Illsley, along with the Executive Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors, is responsible for ensuring that there is a culture of openness, debate and challenge among the Board members.
Tony and the other Non-Executive Directors are available to any shareholders who request a meeting or who have concerns that contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve, or where such contact is inappropriate: we have an equal number of Executive and Non-Executive Directors on the Board and a clear schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board so that no single group or individual is able to dominate decision-making: the Company Secretary, along with the Executive Chairman, takes responsibility for ensuring that there is the right flow of information to the Board and that the Board agenda covers all of the topics that the Board should be considering: each of our four operating brands has its own Managing Director, separate from the Executive Chairman, who all have access to the other Executive Directors on a regular basis and, along with other members of senior management, meet with the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis to enable information to be exchanged first hand and to provide the Non-Executive Directors with greater insight and understanding of Group operations outside of the boardroom: and our Executive Chairman has received training on his responsibilities as an Executive Director and as the Chairman of the Board and is careful to ensure that he does not perform one role at the expense of the other.
The Senior Independent Director supports him in this andacts as a sounding board for the Executive Chairman when required, as well as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary, tomitigate further any potential problems arising out of the dual role.
indd 3 6 20 2013 11:14:35 AM Directors report Overview Business review Governance Financials KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Board length of service Appointment 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Bill Halbert 1 September 2006 Graham Holden 27 November 2007 Tony Illsley 2 June 2009 Paul Simpson 24 May 2004 Martin Towers 2 June 2009 Kevin Walsh 24 May 2004 The Board reviews the independence of the There is a schedule of Matters Reserved for the Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors each year, taking into Board which is reviewed and updated each year.
Non-Executive Directors account the length of tenure, relationships This schedule requires that specific matters andcircumstances as well as considering relating to budgets, strategy, performance thebehaviour of each Director at Board against objectives, financial reporting, internal meetings and whether or not they contribute controls, communications, remuneration and to unbiased and independent debate.
All of governance, along with any proposed changes the Non-Executive Directors were independent to business operations or the structure and upon appointment and the Board believes capital of the Company, are referred to the that all three remain wholly independent.
Board for consideration and approval.
Commitments of the Executive Chairman The Board reviews also contractual clauses Bill Halbert works full-time for the Company.
escalated to the Board through our contracting He sits on the boards of a number of smaller risk framework and business cases escalated in private limited companies but these do not require accordance with our Group-wide delegations Executive Directors 50% a significant time commitment and he manages ofauthority.
Bill Halbert successfully these commitments alongside his role Paul Simpson at KCOM Group.
His commitments have not Our Company Secretary, Kathy Smith, was Kevin Walsh changed significantly in the year.
appointed to her current role in 2010 and has been with the Group for over seven years.
She Non-Executive Directors 50% UK Corporate Governance Code is a Chartered Accountant and Graduate Graham Holden Apart from the exception noted opposite, the member of the Institute of Chartered Tony Illsley Board considers that it has complied with all Secretaries and Administrators.
The Board Martin Towers the detailed provisions of the UK Corporate considers the role of the Company Secretary to be Governance Code throughout the year ended of great importance in ensuring that the Group 31 March 2013 and the Board as a whole and the Board has the right governance in place iscommitted entirely to the principle of and that Board processes are correctly followed.
achieving and maintaining a high standard Group Leadership team ofcorporate governance.
The UK Corporate The Company Secretary meets with each Governance Code is available on the Financial ofthe Directors individually as necessary bygender as at 31 March Reporting Council website at www.
todiscuss governance related matters and provides a governance report to the Board on How the Board operates a monthly basis.
The Directors are able also to The Board meets nine times a year.
obtain independent professional advice at the Theattendance at the meetings during Groups expense whenever necessary.
theyear isshown in the table on page 38.
Ateach meeting the Board considers all The balance of the Board aspects ofGroup performance, including The Nomination Committee is responsible for pastperformance and the future long-term reviewing the balance of the Board to ensure success and strategic aims of the Group.
that it continues to meet the requirements of the Group.
The business reports regularly to the Board Female 44% onfinancial performance, human resources, There is a Board Appointments policy in place, health, safety and environmental matters, which sets out the procedure that will be Male 56% investor relations, governance, compliance followed in the event of a Board vacancy being andrisk.
There are also regular updates on identified, along with the approach of the keyprojects and strategic programmes.
indd 4 6 20 2013 11:14:35 AM KCOM Group PLC Corporate governance continued Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Attendance at Board meetings Director Number of meetings Out of possible Bill Halbert Chairman 9 9 Graham Holden 9 9 Tony Illsley 9 9 Paul Simpson 9 9 Martin Towers 9 9 Kevin Walsh 9 9 The balance of the Board continued continue to seek to identify and develop Performance evaluation The key principle set out in the policy is the talented individuals in the Group, For the past ten years the Board has thatthe Board will seek always to appoint on regardless of gender: undertaken a formal internal process to merit, in line with the current and foreseeable evaluate the effectiveness of its own future requirements of the Group.
The Board review regularly the proportion of women at performance, as well as that of its various recognises the benefits of diversity of all types, each level in the organisation to ensure that Committees.
Significant value has been derived including gender diversity, and will aim always equal opportunities are being presented to from the internal evaluation process in 2011 to develop the diversity of the Board, while individuals at every level: and and 2012 and therefore the Board chose to remaining true to the key principle of appointing once again use an internal process in 2013.
The Board believes that setting ensure always that there is a confidential way Board, however, acknowledges that since the specific targets for the proportion of women in which concerns can be raised without fear of Group became part of the FTSE 350 in 2011, on the Board may lead to recruitment repercussion if anyone, regardless of gender, there is a requirement for an externally facilitated decisions being made that are not aligned has a concern about the opportunities evaluation to be performed within three years: withthis key principle.
therefore the 2014 evaluation will be externally facilitated in accordance with the requirements The policy states also that the Nomination While we do not have currently any female of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee will ensure that it only uses representation on the Groups Board of Directors, executive search firms that have signed up to 44 per cent of our senior management team is The evaluation process in 2013 was conducted the voluntary Code of Conduct addressing female.
This is broadly consistent with the by the Company Secretary and involved gender diversity and best practice, that female proportion of women across the Group as a face-to-face meetings with each Director, applicants are given the same consideration whole, which sits at 39 per cent.
covering all areas of Board and Committee and opportunity as male applicants and that responsibility.
The feedback from the meetings gender diversity is considered specifically when Training and development was collated and presented back to the Board drawing up a list of potential candidates.
The Board receives monthly updates on for discussion.
governance related matters and more formal In addition, through the Board Appointments training where appropriate.
Potential training In addition to the evaluation process, the policy, the Board has committed to: needs are discussed as part of individual Executive Chairman meets with each Board performance evaluation, plus each Director is member individually to discuss their own given the opportunity to flag any additional performance and the Non-Executive Directors training requirements which they may have meet separately to discuss the performance of identified as part of the annual Board the Executive Chairman.
The feedback from evaluation process.
this meeting is then passed on to the Executive Chairman by the Senior Independent Director.
In 2012 the areas of focus that were identified through the Board evaluation process were: Area identified What have we done?
More formal industry updates were to be provided Industry updates were a key area of focus for the Board during the year with many discussions around to the Board.
current and potential future developments in the industry.
Regular review of the long-term milestoneplan The Board has received regular updates on the key projects being undertaken as part of the long-term bythe Board as part of theconsideration of the milestone plan and these are now a standing agenda item for each meeting.
In addition the Board long-term success ofthe Group.
regularly considers the five-year financial plan for the Group and the impact on the plan is a key consideration in all decision-making by the Board.
indd 5 6 20 2013 11:14:35 AM Directors report Overview Business review Governance Financials KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Attendance at Committee meetings Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Director Numberof Out of Director Numberof Out of Director Numberof Out of meetings possible meetings possible meetings possible Martin Towers 3 3 Tony Illsley 5 5 Graham Holden 6 6 Chairman Chairman Chairman Graham Holden 3 3 Graham Holden 5 5 Tony Illsley 6 6 Tony Illsley 3 3 Martin Towers 5 5 Martin Towers 6 6 The results of the performance evaluation that the whole Board is aware of the matters The Committee reviews the re-appointment of process this year indicated that the Board considered by the Committees.
all of the Directors standing for re-election at members are satisfied with the effectiveness the AGM, giving regard to their performance ofthe Board and its Committees, as well as the Audit Committee and ability to continue to contribute to the effectiveness and commitment of each Director.
The membership and attendance at requirements of the Board.
The Nomination Particular areas of strength were identified Committee meetings during the year is Committee then makes recommendations to during the evaluation, including the mutual shownin the above table.
Details of the role the Board on whether each Director should be respect among Board members which ofthe Audit Committee are given on pages put forward for re-election.
encourages an open environment for challenge 24and 25. and debate and the quality of information The Committees Terms of Reference are in provided to the Board.
Nomination Committee line with the recommendations in the UK The membership and attendance at Committee Corporate Governance Code and the ICSA The process identified the following for focus meetings during the year is shown in the Guidance on Terms of Reference for in the coming year: above table.
Copies of the Terms of Reference are available from the Company succession planning at both a Board and The Nomination Committee meets as often Secretary and are on our website, senior management level will continue asrequired and is responsible for reviewing the www.
tobe an area for Board focus: and structure, size and composition of the Board and ensuring that the balance of skills, knowledge Remuneration Committee future brand strategy in relation to and experience of the Board is right for the The membership and attendance at changing customer requirements as a Group, both in terms of the current challenges Committee meetings during the year is result of developing technology will also and opportunities facing the Group and the skills shownin the above table.
The report of continue to be a key area for focus.
and expertise that are expected to be needed theRemuneration Committee and details onthe Board in the future.
The approach of the ofits role are given on page 46.
Meetings Nomination Committee to diversity on the Board During the year the Board held nine is noted on pages 37 and 38.
Risk management and internal control scheduledmeetings.
The required corporate governance disclosures When Board vacancies arise, the Nomination in respect of risk management and internal Four of the meetings were preceded the Committee is responsible for preparing control are made within the risk management evening before by an informal meeting adescription of the role and capabilities section of the Directors report on pages allowing more time to debate issues in depth.
required for a particular appointment and then 24to27.
identifying and nominating candidates for the The Non-Executive Directors have a regular approval of the Board.
In order to identify Details of our business model can be found dialogue concerning Board matters and suitable candidates the Committee uses open onpages 6 and 7 and our key performance theExecutive Chairman meets with the advertising or the services of external advisors indicators are on pages 8 and 9.
Non-Executive Directors, without the other to facilitate the search, where appropriate.
Directors present, at regular intervals.
The Proposal to re-appoint the external auditors Non-Executive Directors met formally during The Committee is responsible also for  LLP have advised the year without any of the Executive Directors considering succession planning for the oftheir willingness to continue in office and present to discuss matters, including the Directors and for key senior management have confirmed their continued independence.
performance of the Executive Chairman.
across the Group, although this is a matter Following consideration of the relationship with considered also by the full Board.
the external auditors, as described onpage 26, Board Committees the Audit Committee has recommended to the The Board has established and delegated The Nomination Committee reviews annually Board that  LLP are specific responsibilities to the following the time required from each of the Directors to re-appointed and a resolution to re-appoint Committees.
Each Committee reports back perform their role effectively.
Following this them will be proposed at the AGM.
They have tothe Board after each meeting and minutes review in the year, the Committee is satisfied provided an independent audit opinion on of Committee meetings are circulated to all that each of the Directors has committed these accounts which can be found on page 57.
Board members, where appropriate, to ensure sufficient time during the year to fulfil their duties as Directors of the Company.
indd 6 6 20 2013 11:14:36 AM KCOM Group PLC Corporate governance continued Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Substantial shareholdings As at 31 March 2013, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to three per cent or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
As at 18 June 2013, there had been no additional disclosures received.
Number of shares with % of total votingrights voting rights Invesco Asset Management 62,409,214 12.08 Aviva Investors 33,441,521 6.47 Fidelity Worldwide Investment 30,357,652 5.88 Aberforth Partners LLP 23,699,383 4.59 Legal & General Investment Management 17,915,133 3.47 Scottish Widows Investment Partnerships 16,466,358 3.19 Powers of the Directors they are satisfied that they give a true and fair The Directors are responsible for the The business of the Company is managed by view of the state of affairs of the Group and maintenance and integrity of the Groups the Directors, who may exercise all the powers the Company and of the profit or loss of the website, www.
Legislation in the of the Company, subject to the provisions of Group for that period.
United Kingdom governing the preparation and the Articles of Association, relevant statutes dissemination of financial statements may and any special resolution of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors are required to: The Articles of Association give the Directors Directors statement pursuant to the the power to authorise conflicts of interest in select suitable accounting policies and then Disclosure and Transparency Rules relation to transactions or arrangements with apply them consistently: Each of the Directors whose names and the Company, in accordance with the functions are listed on pages 34 and 35 Companies Act 2006.
Conflicts of interest are make judgements and accounting estimates confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: a standing agenda item at Board meetings that are reasonable and prudent: and each Director proposes any potential the Group financial statements, which have conflicts for consideration as soon as they state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as become aware of them.
The Director with the by the EU have been followed, subject to adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view potential conflict is excluded from the vote to any material departures disclosed and of the assets, liabilities, financial position authorise the transaction or arrangement.
explained in the financial statements: and and profit of the Group: and Any conflicts that are authorised are then prepare the financial statements on the Directors report includes a fair review logged on a register, along with details of any thegoing concern basis unless it is of the development and performance of specific terms imposed upon authorisation.
inappropriate to presume that the the business and the position of the Group, Internal controls are in place to ensure that Company will continue in business.
together with a description of the principal transactions or arrangements which may lead risks and uncertainties that it faces.
to a potential conflict of interest are conducted The Directors are responsible for keeping on an arms length basis.
adequate accounting records that are Amendments to the Companys Articles sufficient to show and explain the Companys ofAssociation Directors responsibilities statement transactions and disclose with reasonable Any amendments to the Companys Articles The Directors are responsible for preparing accuracy at any time the financial position of ofAssociation may be made by passing a theannual report, the Directors Remuneration the Company and the Group and enable them special resolution at a general meeting of report and the financial statements in accordance to ensure that the financial statements and theshareholders.
with applicable law and regulations.
Company the Directors Remuneration report comply law requires the Directors to prepare financial with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards statements for each financial year.
Under that the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the law, the Directors have prepared the Group and IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for Company financial statements in accordance safeguarding the assets of the Company and with International Financial Reporting Standards the Group and hence for taking reasonable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union steps for the prevention and detection of fraud EU.
Under company law, the Directors must and other irregularities.
not approve the financial statements unless 40 1 KCOM ar13 middle RB.
indd 7 6 20 2013 11:14:36 AM Directors report Overview Business review Governance Financials KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 A large number of our shareholders live intheHull and East Yorkshire region and, asaGroup, we are very much involved inlocallife in the area.
Going concern The Directors confirm that, having reviewed the Relations with shareholders Groups budget and forecasts along with the principal risks and uncertainties facing the We place a great deal of importance on communicating with our shareholders and Group, they are satisfied that the Group has understanding their views.
Our Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Officer meet adequate resources to continue in operational regularly with our institutional shareholders to discuss the strategy, performance and existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly governance of the Company and to obtain feedback.
During the year, meetings have the Group continues to adopt the going concern beenheld with 25 such shareholders.
There are also general presentations following basis in preparing the financial statements.
theinterim and final results announcements each year.
Signed on behalf of the Board Feedback from meetings with shareholders is included as part of the monthly report totheBoard and discussed at each Board meeting, along with details of any analyst reports, to ensure that each of our Directors has a clear understanding of the views of ourshareholders.
Our Non-Executive Directors are available to meet face-to-face with Kathy Smith ourinstitutional shareholders if requested to do so, although no such requests have Company Secretary beenreceived during the year.
18 June 2013 A large number of our shareholders live in the Hull and East Yorkshire region and, as aGroup, we are very much involved in local life in the area.
More information about our community activities is on page29.
We believe that being a part of local life enables ustolearn more about our local shareholders and the issues that matter to them.
We consider our AGM to be an important means of communication between our shareholders and Directors.
All of our Directors are available at the AGM to answer questions and we seek to encourage shareholder participation by inviting questions in advance.
In 2012 we introduced electronic voting for the first time at our AGM and we intend to usethis again at our AGM on 26 July 2013.
The results of voting, including the proxy votes lodged, are shown to shareholders in the meeting and are made available subsequently onour website.
All of our Company announcements are published on our website, together with presentation materials and financial reports, so that all of our shareholders can keep uptodate with our news.
