Governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Dear Fellow Shareholder This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it carried out during the year.
The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up-to-date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
It also reviews annually the Groups systems of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
The members of the Committee in 2013 are set out below.
All served on the Committee throughout the year except where indicated and all apart from Gerry Brown were considered by the Company to be independent.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Chris Girling C F Girling Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee E G F Brown until 23 May 2013 D G Savage until 3 October 2013 P N Withers The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Companys external auditors the Auditors normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
, in their role as internal auditors, attend at least two meetings of the Committee each year.
The Committee met five times during the year, all with the Companys Auditors in attendance, and on two of these occasions, the Committee met privately with the Auditors without management being present.
Audit E G F Brown 1 2 C F Girling 5 5 D G Savage 4 4 P N Withers 5 5 Retired on 23 May 2013 Retired on 3 October 2013 Each Committee meeting complied with the terms of reference in that a minimum of two members were in attendance, being independent, Non-executive Directors.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on our website and are also available from the Company Secretary.
36 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: Significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements focused on the Groups approach to key reviewing the tenure of its external Auditors and overseeing a estimates and judgments in connection with: tender process for the provision of external audit services: accounting for construction contracts.
The main factors reviewing an annual report on the Groups system of internal considered when making those estimates and judgments include control and its effectiveness and receiving regular updates on the percentage of work completed at the balance sheet date on key risk areas of financial control: longer-term contracts, the costs of the work required to complete reviewing and approving the Auditors engagement letter and the contract and the outcome of claims and variations raised audit fee: against customers and claims raised against the Group by reviewing the Auditors reports and the Groups draft financial customers or third parties.
The Committee has reviewed a report statements and recommending them for approval to the Board: prepared by management on the key estimates and judgments reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its cost-effectiveness relating to construction contracts having a material impact on the and the independence and objectivity of the Auditors: Groups result for the year.
undertaking an assessment of the effectiveness of the external accounting for acquisitions.
The Group makes judgments and audit process: estimates in assessing the fair value of the assets and liabilities approving a rolling four-year programme of internal audit reviews acquired and in estimating the fair value of any contingent of aspects of the Groups operations and financial controls and consideration payable.
The fair values of intangible assets and receiving reports on all reviews carried out during the year: the estimate of contingent consideration is also based on receiving briefings on various technical issues, such as assumptions, including the forecast results of the acquired accounting standards and their practical consequences for Keller: businesses.
For 2013, the Committee has considered the reviewing the operation of and compliance with the Groups approach to the fair value exercise for the Groups acquisitions business conduct programme including receiving a report on the in the year, in particular the acquisition of Keller Canada.
The Groups anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy: Committee has also reviewed the assumptions used in valuing reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing policy and monitoring the the material intangible assets and the forecast results for procedures in place for employees to be able to raise matters of determining an estimate of the contingent consideration to be possible impropriety: paid.
In addition, the Committee has considered the judgments receiving reports on whistle-blowing incidents: and approach in assessing the fair value of property, plant reviewing the Committees effectiveness and its terms of and equipment.
reference: the carrying value of goodwill.
The Group tests annually whether reviewing the Groups policy on employment of the Auditors goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the for non-audit services: accounting policy set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
reviewing the need for an internal audit function: and The Group estimates the recoverable amount based on value reviewing the Groups policy on the employment of former in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of employees of the Auditors.
assumptions, the most important being the forecast revenues, gross margins and the discount rate applied.
The key During 2013, the Audit Committee also reviewed the Companys assumptions used for the value in use calculations are set out in processes to ensure that it was able to offer advice to the Board note 13 to the financial statements.
The Committee has reviewed over whether the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts can be the key assumptions used for all impairment tests of material considered fair, balanced and understandable.
In particular, this review has focused on Keller processes took place and provided assurance: the co-ordination Limited UK where there is the most uncertainty surrounding the and review of the Annual Report and Accounts was performed projections used in the value in use calculation.
within an exacting time-frame which ran alongside the formal audit process undertaken by the Auditors: guidance was issued to The Committee also examined the disclosure of items which are contributors at an operational level: an internal verification process described as exceptional in the consolidated income statement dealing with the factual content of the reports took place: and a and discussed the appropriateness of such disclosure with the comprehensive review was undertaken by the senior management Companys Auditors.
team and external advisers that aimed to ensure consistency and overall balance.
These matters and any audit differences are considered in the Committee meetings that review the full-year and interim results.
At these meetings, the Committee discusses with the Auditors whether they consider managements assumptions behind these estimates and judgments to be conservative or aggressive.
In addition, during such meetings, the Committee meets with the Auditors without management being present.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 37 Governance Corporate governance continued External audit There are open lines of communication and reporting between The Committee places great importance on ensuring there are high the Auditors and the Committee and when presenting their standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit process.
independence letter KPMG discuss with the Committee their internal process for ensuring independence.
KPMG, and its predecessor firms, has been the Companys Auditor since the Company first listed on the London Stock Exchange in A detailed assessment of the amounts and relationship of audit and 1994.
During the year, the Committee recognised that the length non-audit fees and services is carried out each year and the Audit of tenure of auditors has been a topic of much debate.
In addition, Committee has developed and implemented a policy regulating the following the conclusion of the 2013 audit, the Companys lead placing of non-audit services to the Auditors, which should prevent audit partner will be required to rotate off the audit of the Group.
Any work awarded to the A decision was therefore taken to review the external audit Auditors, other than audit or tax compliance, with a value in excess arrangements and the Committee issued a request for proposal of 100,000 requires the specific approval of the Committee.
RFP in September 2013 to all of the Big Four audit firms Deloitte, EY, KPMG and  to provide In the previous five years, the ratio of non-audit related fees paid to external audit services with effect from the 2014 financial year.
the Auditor averaged 40% of the total audit fee.
In 2013, this ratio Given the geographical profile of the Group, the Committee increased to 84%.
However, of the total non-audit related fees paid considered it appropriate to only extend the RFP to the Big Four to the Auditor in 2013 of 1.1 million, 0.7 million related to the audit firms.
audit and accountancy work associated with the Groups acquisition of Keller Canada during the year, for which it was The key criteria in assessing each of the firms in the tender process concluded that KPMG was best placed to support the Group.
primarily related to the experience and cultural fit of the proposed Excluding these services, the ratio of non-audit related fees paid teams, including the proposed teams in key locations, and an to the Auditor reduces to 31% of the total audit fee.
assessment of the overall audit approach and quality.
Also, as part of its annual review of Auditors independence, the Following a robust tender process, the Committee recommended Committee reviews the level and nature of entertainment between to the Board that KPMG be re-appointed as the Companys Auditor.
Going forward, the Company will comply with the relevant tendering and auditor rotation requirements applicable to the Company under Internal audit UK and EU regulations.
 continues to provide a structured programme of independent, outsourced reviews of all material As a result of a change to KPMGs legal structure, KPMG Audit Plc business units at least once every four years.
During 2013, the has notified the Company that it is not seeking re-appointment: Audit Committee received and considered reports from KPMG LLP is seeking appointment in its place.
KPMG Audit Plc  which detailed the progress against the has provided the Company with a statement of circumstances.
The agreed work programme for 2013.
This programme covered resolution to appoint KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at the reviews of business units in eight countries, which together Annual General Meeting to be held in May 2014. represented approximately 15% of the Groups turnover for the year.
In October, the Committee formally reviewed the effectiveness of The Committee also undertook an assessment of the effectiveness these arrangements, concluding that the internal audit of the external audit process of the 2012 financial statements.
arrangements were appropriate and effective.
This assessment focused on: the calibre of the audit firm including reputation, presence in the industry, size, resources and geographic spread : its quality control processes: the quality of the team assigned to the audit: the audit scope, fee and audit communications: and the governance and independence of the audit firm.
This process was supported by the completion of a questionnaire by each material Keller business and the divisional finance teams following the conclusion of the audit.
The questionnaire covered areas such as the quality of audit team, their understanding of the business, and the management of and approach to the audit.
Where appropriate, actions were agreed against the points raised and will be monitored for progress.
There are a number of checks and controls in place for safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the Auditors.
