Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee Dear Fellow Shareholder This report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee and the work it carried out during the year.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the Directors.
The members of the Committee in 2013 were the independent Non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive, Justin Atkinson.
During the year, the Committee: considered the composition of the Board: reviewed and agreed proposals for an executive talent development programme and recommended the appointment of a firm of external human resource consultants to facilitate the programme: approved the appointment of external search consultants to initiate a search process for a new Non-executive Director to the Board: and reviewed its terms of reference.
Roy Franklin Chairman of the Nomination Committee The resignation of David Savage in October of 2013 created an unexpected vacancy for a Non-executive Director on the Board.
After meeting a number of external search consultants, the Committee appointed Heidrick & Struggles to assist with the search in December 2013.
Heidrick & Struggles has no connection to Keller other than the provision of this service.
The search is progressing positively and we will report on the outcome in due course.
Keller and the Committee continue to encourage and welcome interest from women, as from other candidates who will add to the Boards diversity.
The Boards overriding objective is to continue to provide effective leadership and, therefore, the Committee continues to recommend for appointment only the most appropriate candidates to the Board in line with the criteria set out on page 31.
There are, therefore, no formal targets set for female representation at Board level.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all members of the Board will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting in May 2014.
In December 2013, the Committee formally reviewed the performance, contribution and commitment of each of the Directors retiring at this years Annual General Meeting and seeking reappointment, and supported and recommended their reappointment to the Board.
The Committee has confirmed that each Director continues to perform well both on an individual and collective basis, making a valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations and demonstrating commitment to Kellers long-term interests.
Nomination J R Atkinson 2 2 R A Franklin 2 2 L R Cairnie 2 2 C F Girling 2 2 D G Savage 1 1 P N Withers 2 2 Retired on 3 October 2013 Each Committee meeting complied with the terms of reference in that a minimum of two members were in attendance, being independent, Non-executive Directors.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on our website and are also available from the Company Secretary.
