Governance Corporate governance Chairmans letter Dear Fellow Shareholder Keller Group plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code encourages me to report personally on how its principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied, and I am pleased to do so.
At Keller, the Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that effective governance processes are in place and complied with.
The Boards role is to: create value for shareholders: provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group: govern the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: approve the Groups strategic objectives: and ensure that sufficient resources are available to enable it to meet those objectives.
Roy Franklin Chairman We choose to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance as we believe these should help to facilitate the success of the Company and sustain this over time.
An important distinction is that management, led by the Chief Executive, is responsible for running the business while the Board, acting under my leadership, creates and oversees the Companys governance framework and provides the constructive challenge to management necessary to deliver accountability and drive performance.
Our effectiveness in doing this should make a material difference in terms of the creation and preservation of value for shareholders, and to the benefit of other stakeholders.
Board composition is therefore of enormous importance and there are three critical dimensions: the balance of skills and experience: maintaining a strong level of independence and objectivity: and ensuring that all members have sufficient knowledge of the Group and the context in which we operate.
During 2013, we undertook an externally facilitated review of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
This was a searching process managed by Spencer Stuart, an experienced independent firm of consultants with no other connection to Keller, under my direction.
A fuller description of the process is set out on page 32 of this report, together with an overview of the areas for improvement resulting from the review.
We will report to you next year on how we have progressed against those improvements.
On page 35 I further describe the process that we commenced in November 2013 to recruit a new Non-executive Director to the Board and we will report on progress in due course.
The remainder of this report contains the narrative reporting variously required by the Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, including the role and work of the Nomination Committee.
I hope that you find this an informative and helpful discussion of an important topic.
Yours faithfully Roy Franklin Chairman 3 March 2014 30 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2013, we have Board diversity complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Keller continues to be supportive of the need for diversity on its Governance Code.
The Code is publicly available at the website of Board to provide the necessary range of background, experience, the Financial Reporting Council www.
This corporate values and perspectives to optimise the decision-making process.
governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts describes Gender is seen as one important aspect of diversity to which the how we have applied the main principles of the Code.
Chairman and the Nomination Committee must pay due regard when deciding upon the most appropriate composition of the The Board Board.
The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved to it for The Board has established a range of backgrounds, capabilities decision, including: and experiences that are critical for the overall Board composition setting Group strategy and approving the annual budget: and this forms the key objective and basis for the search and reviewing operational and financial performance: assessment of candidates for future positions.
Within this context, approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital in the ongoing process of refreshing the Board, the Company expenditure: continues to encourage and welcome interest from women, as from reviewing the Groups systems of internal controls and risk other candidates who will add to the Boards diversity.
Against this management: overriding objective, the Company does not currently propose to ensuring that appropriate management development and set targets for the percentage of women or other aspects of succession plans are in place: diversity on its Board in future years.
providing leadership for, and reviewing the Groups performance in health, safety and environmental matters: The Board, as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, approving appointments to the Board: comprises 14% women one woman: six men 10% at 4 March approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and 2013 one woman: nine men.
Directors contracts as well as accounting, dividend and treasury policies: and Within the Keller Group, our overall senior management population undertaking a formal and rigorous review annually of its own comprises 8% women and women employees account for 18% of performance and that of its Committees and Directors.
Directors and Directors independence All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three other NonAnnual General Meeting AGM following their appointment and to executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The names of the annual re-election thereafter, in accordance with the Code.
Directors at the date of this report, together with their biographical details, are set out on page 28.
All of these Directors served The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive throughout the year.
In addition, Gerry Brown and Bob Rubright There is a clear division of responsibilities between Roy Franklin both served on the Board until 23 May 2013 and David Savage as Non-executive Chairman and Justin Atkinson who, as Chief was a Director until 3 October 2013.
Executive, is the Director ultimately responsible for the running of the Groups business.
The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to develop proposals on strategy and bring strong independent The Chairman is responsible for the following matters pertaining judgment, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
to the leadership of the Board: Periodically, the Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors ensuring appropriate Board composition: without the Executive Directors present.
Apart from formal contact ensuring effective Board processes: at Board meetings, there is regular informal contact between the setting the Boards agenda: Directors.
ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board and Board Committee discussions: Ruth Cairnie, Chris Girling and Paul Withers are all considered to be ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and independent Non-executive Directors and David Savage was also ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Nonconsidered an independent Non-executive Director during his time executive Directors.
Gerry Brown was not considered to be independent under the Code as he had served on the Board for more than ten years.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters: Roy Franklin was independent at the time of his appointment as formulating strategy proposals for the Board: Chairman on 1 August 2009.
His other professional commitments formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how this are as detailed on page 28. strategy will be delivered: apprising the Board of all matters which materially affect the Group and its performance, including any significantly underperforming business activities: and leadership of executive management to enable the Groups businesses to deliver the requirements of shareholders: ensuring adequate, well-motivated and incentivised management resources: ensuring succession planning: and ensuring appropriate business processes.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31 Governance Corporate governance continued Senior Independent Director between Executive and Non-executive Directors: and the Boards The role of Senior Independent Director provides a point of contact relationships and communications with shareholders and other for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, stakeholders.
other than through the Chairman.
Paul Withers, who is Senior Independent Director for Keller, is available for shareholders to Findings of the review were reported and discussed with the Board consult.
The Board has agreed that Paul Withers will act as at its meeting in June 2013.
In summary, good progress had been Chairman of the Board in the event that Roy Franklin is unable made since the 2012 evaluation, particularly with regard to health to do so for any reason.
and safety: however, the Board agreed to take steps to ensure continued focus in the areas of: executive succession planning: Company Secretary Board composition: and in defining the longer-term strategy of All Directors have access to the advice and services of the the business.
Jackie Holman resigned as Company Secretary with effect from 18 November 2013 to take up an Following this process, the Chairman has confirmed that the executive role within Keller.
Jackie was succeeded by Kerry Porritt, Directors standing for election at this years AGM continue to a qualified Chartered Secretary and a Fellow of the Institute of perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Kerry is responsible for ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with the Directors conflicts of interests governance framework it has adopted and that there are effective Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation information flows to the Board and its Committees and between where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with Kellers interests.
The Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of is a matter for consideration by the Board as a whole.
association contain a provision to this effect.
The articles of association give the Directors authority to approve such situations Professional development and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be On appointment, Directors are provided with induction training and dealt with.
To address this issue, at the commencement of each information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters Board meeting, the Board considers its register of interests and reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of gives, when appropriate, any necessary approvals.
the Board Committees and the latest financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented by meetings with the Companys legal There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide and other professional advisers, where appropriate, visits to key whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only locations and meetings with certain senior executives to develop Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will the Directors understanding of the business.
be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision, the Directors must act in a way that they consider, in good Throughout their period of office, Non-executive Directors are faith, will be most likely to promote Kellers success.
The Directors continually updated on the Groups business, its markets, social are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if responsibility matters and other changes affecting the Group and they think this is appropriate.
These procedures on conflict have the industry in which it operates, including changes to the legal and been followed throughout the year and the Board considers the governance environment and the obligations on themselves as approach to operate effectively.
In 2013, the Directors received updates on various best practice, regulatory and legislative developments, including: 2013 Board meetings changes to directors remuneration reporting regulations: and The Board had eight scheduled meetings during the year.
A table changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code impacting on showing attendance at these meetings is set out on page 33.
It is the work required to be performed by the external auditor.
usual for Directors who cannot attend a given meeting to share their views on the business of the meeting in advance with the Chairman Board evaluation or the Senior Independent Director.
In February 2013, the Board appointed Spencer Stuart, an experienced independent firm of consultants, to assist the During the financial year, the Board convened an additional number Chairman in a review of the performance of the Board, its of ad hoc committee meetings, the majority of which related to Committees and Directors.
As part of the review, present and former Board members, senior As part of our policy of holding at least one Board meeting a year managers and a number of external advisers who interact with the at an operational location, one of the Board meetings in 2013 was Board were interviewed.
The review covered: the Board dynamics, held in the United States and another was in Australia, giving the its culture and climate, working as a team and the quality of Board Board an opportunity to receive presentations on markets and discussion: the organisation and working of the Board Committees, prospects in those regions, to visit operational sites and to meet including membership, information and support materials and a number of the Groups senior managers.
topics covered: the composition of the Board, including the skill sets of Directors, their knowledge of the business and the balance 32 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements The number of full Board meetings attended by each Director On an annual basis, the significant risks across all principal business during the year was as follows: units and divisions are collated and discussed in detail with each management team.
The outcome of these discussions is collated in Board the Group risk report, which summarises and prioritises the J R Atkinson 8 8 significant risks facing the Group.
These risks are discussed, E G F Brown 3 3 challenged and reviewed by the Board each year.
L R Cairnie 8 8 R A Franklin 8 8 The Chief Executive reports to the Board on significant changes in C F Girling 8 8 the business and the external environment that affect significant risks.
J W G Hind 8 8 The Finance Director provides the Board with monthly financial R M Rubright 3 3 D G Savage 6 6 information which includes key performance and risk indicators.
W Sondermann 8 8 P N Withers 8 8 b Authorisation procedures Retired on 23 May 2013 Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable trail Retired on 3 October 2013 of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across Group operations and provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
Board papers continue to be distributed by way of a secure electronic portal.
Documents are normally made available on the c Management of project risk portal five business days in advance of the meeting.
The portal enables the Directors to receive papers quickly and to review these Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the bidding stage to completion.
at a time convenient to them.
It houses a secure reading room in which key data and documents are kept, which is maintained by Detailed risk analyses covering technical, operational and financial the Company Secretary and is regularly updated.
issues are performed as part of the bidding process.
Authority limits applicable to the approval of bids relate both to the specific risks Business conduct The Group takes pride in its good reputation globally.
The Business associated with the contract and to the total value being bid by Keller, or any joint venture to which Keller is a party.
Any bids Conduct Programme continues to seek to promote honesty, fairness and integrity in relations between employees and their work involving an unusually high degree of technical or commercial risk, for example those using a new technology or in a territory where colleagues, customers, suppliers, competitors and the communities in which they work.
A whistle-blowing hotline is in place to facilitate we have not previously worked, must be approved at a senior level within the operating company.
the raising of any concerns, either by employees or external whistle-blowers.
On average, our contracts have a duration of around six weeks but Internal control larger contracts may extend over several months.
The performance of contracts is monitored and reported by most business units on a The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In addition, thorough reviews are carried out by senior managers on any poorly performing jobs and full cost-to-complete a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only assessments are routinely carried out on extended duration contracts.
reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Further detail on the management of project risk is provided in the The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, section headed Principal risks and KPIs on pages 10 and 11. evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the d Health and safety Regular reporting, monitoring and reviews of health and safety date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
matters are made to the HSE Committee and the Board.
The principal elements of the internal control framework are as e Budgeting and forecasting There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget follows: approved by the Board.
This budget includes monthly profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cash flows.
In addition, a Risk identification and evaluation Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of forecasts are prepared for the two subsequent years.
Forecasts for the full year are regularly updated during the year.
significant risks applicable to their areas of business, together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks f Financial reporting may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including market cycles, acquisitions, people, technical risks such Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which compare profit and loss accounts, balance sheets, cash flows as engineering and project tendering and management, health and safety risks, control breakdowns, disruptions in information and other information with budget and prior year, and significant variances are investigated.
systems, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The identified risks, and the controls in place to manage them, are subject to continual reassessment.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 33 Governance Corporate governance continued g Cash control Relations with shareholders Each business reports its cash position weekly.
Regular cash A full Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders.
The forecasts are prepared to monitor the Groups shortand mediumGroup maintains a corporate website, containing a wide range of term cash positions and to control immediate borrowing information of interest to investors, including presentations to requirements.
The website is updated with all formal communications to the investment community immediately h Investments and capital expenditure following their release through a regulatory news service, in All significant investment decisions, including capital expenditure, compliance with Kellers obligations under the Listing Rules and are referred to the appropriate divisional or Group authority level.
i Internal audit Throughout the year, the Chief Executive and Finance Director The Group has a structured programme of independent, regularly meet with, and make presentations to, institutional outsourced audit reviews, covering tendering, operational investors in the UK, Continental Europe and the US.
These include processes and internal financial controls.
The intention is to conduct meetings following the announcement of the annual and interim an internal audit of all material business units at least once every results with the Companys largest institutional shareholders on an four years.
This programme has been carried out by individual basis.
All major shareholders have the opportunity on  since 2010.
The programme is approved request to meet the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or, and monitored by the Audit Committee, which reviews the findings on appointment, any new Non-executive Directors.
On a regular of each such exercise.
basis, the Board is apprised of the views of the investment community through the circulation of brokers research notes and j Electronic Internal Control Questionnaire EICQ feedback from analysts and investors, supplemented by occasional Each year, every principal business unit is required to complete an investor perception surveys.
electronic questionnaire responding to whether key internal financial and non-financial controls are in place.
The results of these questionnaires In 2013, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee commenced are summarised in a heatmap, which is presented to and discussed a consultation with Kellers top shareholders with regard to proposed by the Audit Committee.
The responses to the questionnaires are changes to the Companys remuneration policy.
Further details can also reviewed by  during each internal audit.
be found in her report to shareholders on page 42. k Annual compliance statement The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with Once a year, managers are asked to confirm the adequacy of the private and institutional shareholders and welcomes their systems of internal controls for which they are responsible: and their participation.
The Notice of the AGM, detailing all proposed compliance with Group policies, local laws and regulations: and to resolutions, is posted to shareholders at least 20 working days prior report any significant control weaknesses or breakdowns identified to the meeting.
Board Committees l Business conduct The Board has established four permanent Committees that The Groups business conduct handbook sets out the Groups deal with significant aspects of Kellers affairs.
These are: the policies and processes with regards to conducting business in Nomination Committee: the Audit Committee: the Health, Safety all business units worldwide.
All business units are required to & Environment Committee: and the Remuneration Committee.
self-certify that they are compliant with the Groups business The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all the Committees.
conduct handbook and compliance with the handbook is Reports of each of the Chairmen of the Committees follow.
considered as part of the independent reviews.
Information included in the Directors Report m Whistle-blowing procedures Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about Governance Statement can be found in the Directors Report in the malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confidential whistlesections headed Substantial shareholdings, Repurchase of blowing hotline and e-mail address is available.
Any issues raised are shares, Amendment of the Companys articles of association, thoroughly investigated and reported back to the Audit Committee.
Appointment and replacement of Directors and Powers of the The management of financial risks is described in the Financial Directors and is incorporated into this corporate governance review and the management of the principal risks and uncertainties section by reference.
facing the Group is described in the Operating review.
By order of the Board Kerry Porritt Company Secretary 3 March 2014 34 Keller Group plc
