Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR As a Jersey incorporated company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Kentz is required to report in adherence with the UK Corporate Governance code the Code.
The Board considers that applying best practice in corporate governance is integral to developing, maximising and maintaining the success of the Group and to achieving its long-term goals.
It is therefore committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and to instilling in the Group the related principles on which it believes business should be based.
TAN SRI MOHD RAZALI ABDULRAHMAN The Group strives to ensure that where practical, it NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN adheres to the Code and regularly reviews its governance policies and procedures.
The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills newgovernance framework for directors remuneration became binding on UK-registered companies from 1October 2013.
Though a Jersey-registered company, Kentz will substantially follow the requirements of the regulations and the Directors Remuneration Report adheres to the required format.
There will be a binding shareholder vote on the Remuneration Policy.
The Board is committed to a culture that attracts andretains talented people to deliver outstanding performance and further enhance the success of the Group.
In that culture, diversity across a range of criteria DAVID BELDOTTI is valued, primarily in relation to skills, knowledge and SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR experience and also in other criteria such as gender andethnicity.
The Board will continue to review the recommendations made by the Davies Report, particularly in light of succession and development.
The Board considers that applying best practice in STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Group is substantially compliant with the Code, corporate governance is an except that the Chairman is non-independent because integral element in developing, heis a significant shareholder in the Group.
Nevertheless, maximising and maintaining the his extensive knowledge and experience of the Company and his effective leadership of the Board are deemed success of the Group and in important to the Group.
The Chairmans designated responsibilities do not includediscussing governance and strategy with major The Board is committed to the shareholders non-compliance with E. 1.1. of the Code.
This highest standards of corporate has been delegated to the Senior Independent Director governance and to instilling in the SID.
Due to the Chairmans non-independence, the Group feels it is more appropriate for the SID to meet with Group the related principles with shareholders.
That said, the Chairman is available to meet which it believes business should with shareholders at their request.
The Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and is available for review on the Financial Reporting Councils website: https: www.
pdf Tan Sri Mohd Razali Adbul Rahman Chairman David Beldotti Senior Independent Director Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 55 REPORT OF THE BOARD The Board is collectively responsible for providing leadership, setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies and ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to achieve business success.
The main responsibilities of the Board are: STRATEGY Developing the Groups long-term objectives and guiding the Groups strategic aims Approval of major capital expenses: projects, contracts and acquisitions Changes to the structure and capital of the Group VALUES AND STANDARDS Development and monitoring of the Groups Code of Conduct GOVERNANCE Approval of Board membership and senior executive appointments Approval of the Board Committees terms of reference Annual review of the Boards performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors Board and senior executive succession planning BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Monitor financial and business performance of the Group Approval of the annual and half year financial results, interim management statements and dividend policy Monitoring executive performance REPRESENTING SHAREHOLDERS Shareholder and market feedback INTERESTS Analysis of shareholder register For more information, please visit: www.
com investor-relations Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD AND COMMITTEE CALENDAR 2013 The Board and Board Committee meetings are held on a quarterly basis.
In general, one day is allowed for the Board meeting with another full day to accommodate all the Committee meetings.
These meetings are held around the world in order for the Board members to visit the Groups operations and local offices.
The meetings in May prior to the AGM, are generally held in Central Europe to allow for easy access to London for the AGM.
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Board meetings Board conference calls Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Risk Review Committee Risk Review conference calls AGM Risk review calls are conducted to review project bids of all higher level projects before the bid is submitted to the client.
2013 BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS ATTENDANCE Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk Review Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 8 3 3 1 3 Non-Executive Directors Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman 8 1 David MacFarlane 8 3 David Beldotti 8 3 3 1 3 Hans Kraus 7 2 3 3 Brendan Lyons 8 3 3 1 Executive Directors Christian Brown 8 3 Ed Power 8 3 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 57 During 2013, the following matters were covered at each of the Board meetings: March May August October Financial review: Financial review: Financial review: 2012 financial results, Q1 financial results, Half year financial results, treasury report treasury report treasury report and review Approval of final dividend, Approval of AGM and of capital structure results statement and Interim Management Approval of interim dividend Annual Report Statement and half year results statement Review of CEO report Acquisition of Valerus Strategy and acquisition update Field Solutions including the funding options and Audit, Remuneration, Risk and Nomination Committee reports to the Board fiscalstructures.
Operational review including contracts, commercial and legal updates Business Development review Corporate Governance matters for Board review and approval SSH&E report Human Resources report CR Policy During the latter stages of 2013, the Board were engaged in activities covering the proposed transaction of Valerus Field Solutions.
In this instance, the Board considered the funding options and fiscal structure surrounding the transaction, ensuring that these elements were in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
In addition to the above meetings, the Board held conference calls between July and September to discuss the takeover approaches made by M W Group GmBH and Amec plc.
In December, the Board held an additional conference call to approve the proposed acquisition of Valerus.
ADVICE All Directors have unrestricted access to the Company Secretary.
David McCormick was appointed as the Company Secretary on 23 August 2013.
See details of Company Secretary on page 58.
Directors also have unrestricted access to members of Group senior management and a right to obtain independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, in relation to their duties where they consider it appropriate to do so.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES There is a clear and formally documented division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Independent Director to ensure an appropriate balance of responsibility and accountability.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure the effective functioning of the Board, including the provision of accurate, timely and clear information in relation to the Group and its business.
He chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas are appropriate and is responsible for facilitating that all Directors actively contribute to the determination of the Groups strategy.
The Chairman is also responsible for encouraging debate and constructive criticism, speaking and acting for the Board and representing the Board to shareholders.
The Board is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Group effectively.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day to day management of the Group and implementation of Group strategy, developing proposals for Board approval, and ensuring that a regular dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
The Senior Independent Director SID is responsible for providing support to the Chairman and acting as an intermediary between Directors when necessary.
In addition, the SID is responsible for convening a meeting with the other non-executives annually to review the Chairmans performance.
The SID also makes himself available to meet with shareholders to address any concerns they have that have not been properly addressed through the normal channels.
For more information, please visit: www.
com investor-relations Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board represents the shareholders and is The Articles of Association include provisions for dealing accountable to them for creating and delivering value with Directors conflicts of interests under which Directors through the effective governance of the business.
It aims are required to notify the Company Secretary of such to develop a mutual understanding with shareholders on events as they arise so that they can be considered by the the Groups strategic objectives and remains fully Board.
A Director may not vote on or be counted in the committed to ensuring regular communication with quorum to vote on any contract, arrangement, transaction shareholders by reviewing the following activities: or proposal in which he is interested except those specifically permitted in article 61.3 of the Articles The CEO, CFO and the investor relations team maintain ofAssociation.
regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
The main Non-Executive Directors are also required to avoid any sources of communication with the Companys engagements with or instructions from other persons that shareholders are outlined below: might result in the creation of a conflict of interest.
In the event such a situation has arisen, or is about to arise, the During 2013, the CEO and CFO met with institutional Non-Executive Director is required to notify the Board.
If shareholders regularly to provide them with an update the Board decides that a conflict of interest has arisen, or on strategic, operational and governance matters as well may arise, the Non-Executive Director must immediately as give presentations on the Groups financial results cease such activity or resign from the Board.
The Board receives reports from the CEO and CFO regarding feedback from their meetings with Directors are required to disclose any conflicts of institutional shareholders interests at all Board and Committee meetings that may The Head of Investor Relations meets and speaks to exist or appear to exist.
both institutional shareholders and potential investors COMPANY SECRETARY throughout the year and informs the Board of On 23 August 2013, Mr. David McCormick from BDO significant investor events and feedback Ireland was appointed as the Company Secretary.
BDO The Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Ireland had previously been engaged as company Remuneration Committee met with some of the secretarial advisors and David will now fulfil all the duties Companys shareholders to discuss governance provided by BDO whilst retaining his position as a matters and the operations of the Board Partner with the firm.
The Senior Independent Director has been delegated responsibility to address shareholder matters A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and pertaining to corporate governance Administrators, David qualified as a Chartered Secretary The Annual Report is published in April and provides a in 1985.
He has over 30 years experience advising complete update on the operations and financial companies across a multitude of sectors on company law results for the preceding year obligations and corporate governance guidelines.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual David has extensive knowledge of Kentz having advised General Meeting which is attended by all Directors, to the Group on Company secretarial matters for 20 years.
deal with any matters raised by shareholders.
Questions David provides the Board with strong technical relating to the strategy, performance and progress of knowledge blended with commercial insight and project the Company are welcomed at this meeting management skills.
Results of the AGM are published on the Companys website shortly after the meeting concludes INSURANCE COVER The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability Main features of internal control and risk management insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
systems in preparing consolidated financial statements SHARE DEALING CODE and financial reporting: The Company has a share dealing code that covers Board approval of the annual budgets following Group dealings by Directors and employees.
This code complies and business segment reviews with the provisions set out in the Model Code contained in Monitoring of performance against the annual plan Annex 1 to Listing Rule 9 of the UK Listing Rules.
This code through regular Board reports detailing actual versus restricts dealings in shares and other relevant securities by budgeted results, analysis of material variances, review Directors and employees during the designated prohibited of key performance indicators and re-forecasting periods and any time that they are in possession of where required unpublished price-sensitive information.
A notification Monthly reporting by all segments and review by outlining the dates of close periods is issued to Directors Group Finance and employees by the investor relations team prior to each Well resourced control and finance function periods commencement.
Audit Committee review of the integrity of the Annual Report and half-yearly report.
Any resulting recommendations are included in the Audit Committee Chairmans Board report Board review and approval of the Group consolidated half-yearly accounts, consolidated annual accounts, interim management statements and any formal announcements Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 59 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES Regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board Succession planning for Directors and other senior executives Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when theyarise Before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board, and, in light of this evaluation prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment TAN SRI MOHD RAZALI ABDULRAHMAN Ensure that on appointment to the Board, Non-Executive CHAIRMAN, NOMINATION COMMITTEE Directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them Review the results of the Board performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of the Board Review annually the time required from Non-Executive Directors Recommend suitable candidates for the role of Senior ATTENDANCE Independent Director Make recommendations for Membership of the Board Number of meetings held 1 Committees Make recommendations for the reappointment of any NUMBER OF MEETINGS ATTENDED Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman 1 Brendan Lyons 1 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD David Beldotti 1 In 2013, the Committee considered the composition of theBoard and recommends that no further appointments are required at this time.
However, the Committee ROLE recommends that the Board should establish a pool ofcandidates for consideration for possible future The Nomination Committee appointment.
This process is currently ongoing.
isresponsible for evaluating DIVERSITY theBoard of Directors and The Board recognises the benefits of having diversity examiningthe structure, size across all areas of the Group and believes that this adds andcomposition of the Board to Kentzs continued success and advantage.
toensure an appropriate mix of The Committee has sought to address the skills, experience, knowledge recommendations made by Lord Davies and following a andindependence of Directors.
comprehensive recruitment process, we are pleased to welcome Meg Lassarat to the Group who will succeed Ed The Committee makes Power upon his retirement as CFO.
recommendations to the Boardonappointments and The Board does not think it is appropriate or realistic to commit to achieving a given percentage of women on termination of Directors and our Board by a certain date.
Such a commitment would appointments ofDirectors to have implications for the continuing tenure and theBoard Committees.
contribution of our existing Directors and could be prejudicial to the business.
BOARD CHANGES At the Annual General Meeting in May 2014, Ed Power, Chief Financial Officer will not seek re-election and will retire as Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer having reached his normal retirement date, from 29 May 2014.
EdPower will be succeeded as Chief Financial Officer by Meg Lassarat.
The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are located on the Companys website www.
com For more information, please visit: www.
com investor-relations Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED RE-ELECTION DEVELOPMENT Under the Articles of Association, Directors of the Board The Board considers it important that they keep are to submit for re-election every three years.
Following abreastofchanges to the regulatory framework, a review of this position the Board have opted to comply corporate governance code and best practice.
Regular with the Code in this matter and to offer themselves for updates are provided to the Board at their quarterly re-election annually.
At our Annual General Meeting meetings.
In addition to the updates, in May 2013, the AGM in May 2014, all Board members except Ed Power Board undertook a training programme from the Institute will retire, and being eligible, will offer themselves for of Directors to provide an update on the role of the re-election.
Ed Power will not be seeking re-election and Company Director and the Board.
This one day will retire at the AGM as Executive Director and Chief programme covered the following topics: Financial Officer, having reached his normal retirement date, from 29 May 2014.
Corporate Governance: update on changes in the Code and best practice and a self-assessment of the INDEPENDENCE governance within Kentz Corporate Legal and Regulatory Environment: UK The Board considers the independence of each of the listing regime, relationships with shareholders, Non-Executive Directors upon appointment and on an Directors authority annual basis or at any other time when circumstances Board structure, operations and practice: purpose of change.
The Board is satisfied that its composition will the Board, meeting procedures, performance and ensure that no individual, or group of individuals, will evaluation, succession planning dominate the decision-making process.
Directors role: duties, distinction between executive and non-executive, conflicts of interest, market abuse Following a review of the Board composition, the Company, in line with provisions B.
1.1 of the Code, BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION regardsall of the current Non-Executive Directors to beindependent within the meaning of Independent In 2013, each of the Directors completed a detailed asdefined in the Code.
The Board considers that questionnaire evaluating the performance of the DavidBeldotti, Hans Kraus, Brendan Lyons and David Chairman, Board and Board Committees.
Preparation of MacFarlane are independent in character and judgement the questionnaire and collation of results was performed and free from relationships or circumstances that affect internally but independent of the Board.
The results of their judgement.
In judging the independence of these this process was presented to the Board and discussed individuals, the Board has taken account of the following: at the Board meeting in August 2013.
Independent Directors are not and have never been During 2014, the Board will undergo an external evaluation.
employees of the Group Independent Directors do not receive any remuneration from the Group other than Director fees, nor do they participate in the Companys share option scheme, long-term incentive plan or the Companys pension scheme Independent Directors do not have any close family ties with any of the Companys advisors, Directors or senior employees Independent Directors do not have any shareholdings in the Company other than a nominal amount of shares Independent Directors do not have any links with other Directors through involvement in other companies Although David Beldotti has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company since February 2003, he continues to meet all the above criteria to be considered independent.
The Board considers his extensive experience and knowledge of the Company and industry to be invaluable to the Companys success.
The Company does not consider his longevity as a Director to be a determining factor in determining his independence.
The Board undertakes regular reviews to ensure that its composition is balanced and that its Directors have relevant industry and financial experience.
Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 61 RISK REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee shall carry out the following duties on behalf of the Board: Monitor and provide oversight over risk projects and all risk related policies, risk management procedures and activities relating to projects and operations Review and approve all proposals of higher level projects prior to submission, and ensure that they go through a full assessment and risk evaluation.
All risks are to be tabulated and either priced or excluded from the proposals Review at each meeting the schedule of corporate DAVID BELDOTTI, CHAIRMAN tender approvals and the schedule of all higher RISK REVIEW COMMITTEE riskprojects Review project risk management procedures of the Company and report to the Board on the results of their review.
The Committee will make appropriate recommendations to the Board on all project risk management issues The Committee shall recommend to the Board the overall project risk management strategy of the ATTENDANCE Company and oversee the implementation and effective operation of that strategy, its policies Number of meetings held 3 andprocedures The Committee shall satisfy itself that the key project NUMBER OF MEETINGS ATTENDED risks of the Company are managed cost effectively and to an acceptable level, determine the priorities of David Beldotti 3 project risk management activity and bring to the Christian Brown 3 attention of the Board, the critical risks and recommendations Ed Power 3 Hans Kraus 3 During 2013, the Committee met three times during which they reviewed all highest risk projects on a quarterly basis.
On each occasion, the Committee also ROLE reviewed the Companys Enterprise Risk Register.
This summarises and categorises the significant non-project The Risk Review Committee is risks facing the Company, the controls in place against responsible for identifying the each and any further actions planned.
It was noted by the Committee that the overall financial risk to the principal risks facing the Group, the Companys balance sheet from higher level projects, is methods of managing these risks, further reducing from prior financial years.
the controls that are in place to In addition, the Committee also regularly reviews the contain them and the procedures Groups risk management procedures and noted that to monitor them.
The Committee current procedures were adequate for the operations of also makes recommendations for the business.
consideration by the Board of any In addition to these meetings, the Committee also held actions it deems necessary to conference calls during the year where members of the better protect the interests of development group and business units presented specific project tenders which were deemed to attract a theCompany.
The Committee evaluated the level of risk involved in those project tenders and it approved the risk mitigation measures to be adopted in the tender submission and during execution of the projects.
The Committee also considered and approved the entering into joint venture consortium relationships for specific projects and also recommended for signature to the Board those contracts that exceeded US$100m.
The terms of reference for the Risk Review Committee are located on the Companys website www.
com investor-relations Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committee report for2013 and highlight our activities during the year.
The overall role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity of the reported financial performance of the Group, including its preliminary results announcement, Annual Report and Interim Report and to review the appropriateness of related accounting policies, material assumptions and significant judgements adopted in theirpreparation.
A new key responsibility of the Committee is advising theBoard on whether it believes the Annual Report andAccounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and DAVID BELDOTTI, CHAIRMAN understandable and provides the information necessary AUDIT COMMITTEE for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
During 2013, the main activities of the Committee comprised the following: Review of the 2012 full-year and 2013 half-year financial statements ATTENDANCE Review of 2012 full-year and 2013 half-year results announcements made to the London Stock Exchange Number of meetings held 3 Approval of Companys interim management statements NUMBER OF MEETINGS ATTENDED Review of interim and final dividends for recommendation by the Board David Beldotti Chairman 3 Continuous assessment of the effectiveness of the Hans Kraus 2 Companys internal control procedures Review of new provisions within the UK Corporate Brendan Lyons 3 Governance code and the Companys compliance David MacFarlane 3 against the Code Review of the additional disclosures required for the 2013 Annual Report ROLE Appointment of PwC to perform due diligence The Audit Committee is ofValerus responsible for monitoring the At the request of the Board, the Committee considered integrity of the Companys whether the 2013 Annual Report was fair, balanced and financial statements and reviewing understandable and whether it provided the necessary the effectiveness of the information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Companys internal financial Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the controls and internal audit Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee met three times during the year at also oversees the relationship with appropriate times in the reporting and audit cycle and the external auditors and assesses otherwise as required.
During some of those meetings, other members of the Board and key management were their performance.
invited to attend meetings when appropriate and the Groups external auditor is invited to attend meetings of the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are located on the Companys website www.
com Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 63 In addition to the activities outlined above, the The Chief Executive Officer reports at each Board Committee also has responsibility for: meeting on the Group operational environment and activities of the Management Executive Committee.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls INTERNAL AUDIT Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit and compliance monitoring work is carried Groups internal audit function out by the Group Internal Audit Manager and Group Making recommendations to the Board on the Compliance Officer, supported by independent specialist appointment, removal and remuneration of the consultants as required.
The Group Internal Audit Manager external auditors reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Monitoring the objectivity and independence of the works closely with the Chief Financial Officer to ensure external auditors direct and transparent communication around all internal Developing and implementing policy on the audit activity.
engagement of the external auditors to supply nonaudit services During 2013, the Internal Audit Manager attended all Meeting at least annually with the external auditor and Audit Committee meetings to provide the Committee Group Internal Audit Manager in the absence of with updates on the work of the Internal Audit function executive management and their key findings.
ANNUAL REPORT REVIEW PROCESS The Audit Committee reviews the activities of the Internal In reviewing the Annual Report, the Audit Committees Audit function, questioning their review findings and focus was on ensuring the description of the business, and highlighting any areas of concern they may have.
the discussion of the business and financial performance, agreed with our own understanding: and was consistent SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL ISSUES with information presented through the year, with The Audit Committee assesses whether: appropriate weight given to good and bad news.
suitable accounting policies have been adopted management have made appropriate estimates and INTERNAL CONTROL judgements The Directors are responsible for establishing, applicable accounting standards have been followed maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
These systems are The Committee reviews accounting papers prepared by designed to manage, but not necessarily eliminate, the management which provide details on the main financial risks to the Group.
They provide reasonable but not reporting judgements.
complete assurance against material loss or misstatement, including that from fraud.
The Audit Committee reviews quarterly finance and internal audit reports in addition to the reports by The internal control systems are reviewed by the Board on external auditors prior to the issue of the half and full year a regular basis.
Throughout the year, senior management financial results.
provide the Board with related reports to assist them with this review.
The primary areas of financial reporting judgement and disclosure which were considered by the Audit The Group has a clear management structure with Committee in relation to the 2013 financial statements defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of and how they were addressed are set out below: authority.
A key element of the overall control function is directed by the Management Executive Committee, REVENUE RECOGNITION AND CONTRACT ACCOUNTING comprising the key senior executives of the Company.
The percentage of completion method adopted by the Group requires management to make certain judgements The Management Executive Committee met seven times regarding the recoverability of unapproved variation in 2013 and its main focus and responsibilities were: orders and claims and to estimate the cost to completion beyond the reporting date.
Overseeing the Safety Leadership Charter Developing, proposing and implementing Group In general, revenue recognition and contract accounting strategy as directed by the Board on certain key contracts, is the main area of focus for Carrying out formalised risk reviews on selected theAudit Committee, when reviewing the Groups projects throughout the Group financial reporting.
Reviewing Group financial results, annual budgets and forecasts on a regular basis Specifically, with regards to the Medupi project in South Ensuring appropriate guidance is given to analysts Africa there have been delays in civil works executed by Planning news project announcements others and by widespread industrial unrest.
In addition, Reviewing Group backlog position across the Group disputes have arisen in relation to changes introduced by the Project Labour Agreement and interpretation of certain aspects of the technical specification.
com investor-relations Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Extension of time and other contractual claims were The Committee recognises that the present value of prepared in relation to the above matters and were thepension obligations is dependent on a number of progressively submitted to the client.
Where appropriate factors determined on an actuarial basis using a number these claims were compiled with support from legal, offinancial assumptions.
The key assumptions in this technical and forensic planning resources.
These claims calculation are the discount rate, salary inflation and are currently at various stages of adjudication, arbitration, mortality assumptions.
Any changes in these assumptions negotiation or further review.
will impact on the carrying amount of the pension obligation.
The Committee assessed the estimated impact While some of the claims are settled and paid, as of on the defined benefit plan valuation resulting from 31December 2013, a material amount of value had not changes to these key assumptions.
been agreed with the client and accordingly the Groups management team have exercised their judgement on In the audit plan presented to the Committee by the the amount of the claims to be recognised in contract external auditor, this was noted as a risk area.
We discussed revenue assessing the probability that the claim will be the assumptions used in the pension plan valuations with accepted.
The approach taken to this assessment is the external auditor.
consistent with the Groups profit recognition policy.
The Committee has reviewed the claims recognised Following discussions with management and the external and concur with managements assessment thereof.
auditor the Committee is satisfied that the accounting treatment adopted and disclosures in the notes to the The Committee has reviewed the internal revenue and financial statements in relation to the defined benefit profit recognition policies and are satisfied that adequate pension scheme operated by the Group are appropriate.
controls exist to ensure fair disclosure.
It also reviewed the work carried by the risk review committee that Further detail on the defined benefit pension scheme is reviews all major and high risk projects including every given in note 27 to the financial statements.
quarter to ensure unapproved variations, claims and costs to completion that have been recognised are NON-AUDIT SERVICES reasonable and achievable.
The Audit Committee has put in place a policy relating tothe provision of non-audit services by the Groups BEE ACCOUNTING external auditors.
The award of non-audit services is Accounting for the Black Economic Empowerment BEE subject to the Groups standard procurement procedures Initiative in South Africa: From 2 April 2013, Kentz entered relating to the use of consultants.
into a shareholders agreement with Medu Holdings Pty Limited Medu as the new BEE partner.
An accounting The policy outlines: consequence of the BEE transaction is that an income The circumstances in which the Chief Financial Officer statement charge is required to be recognised in CFO may engage the external auditors to provide accordance with IFRS 2: Share Based Payment non-audit services without the prior approval of the representing the difference between the fair value of the Audit Committee BEE shareholding and the consideration received from The circumstances in which the CFO must obtain prior Medu.
Kentz engaged professional advisors to perform approval from the Audit Committee to engage the an IFRS 2 valuation as at 31 December 2012 for this external auditors to provide non-audit services purpose and an income statement charge of US$2.3m The services that are prohibited from being performed has been recognised in the 2013 results.
by the external auditors The Committee constructively challenged assumptions The Audit Committee decided to change the policy on used to support the fair value of the BEE shareholding engagement of external auditors when conducting audits and considered input received from the external auditors.
on businesses to be acquired or sold and due diligence The Committee is satisfied that the approach followed ofpotential acquisitions whereby these appointments and key conclusions are appropriate.
should be reserved as a matter for the Audit Committee, rather than the Chief Financial Officer.
PENSION DISCLOSURES AND KEY ASSUMPTIONS The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme.
The calculation of the defined benefit obligation in respect of this scheme is performed by independent actuaries.
Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 65 EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT At the meeting held in May 2013, the Committee The Group continues to maintain and build on our reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
already well-established high standards of business conduct and ethics and implemented a Code of Business This review consisted of: Conduct in 2011 which formalised all of the important Completion of a survey by the finance managers of behaviours expected of Group employees.
each subsidiary within the Group to determine their assessment of the audit process The Code of Business Conduct sets out to ensure An assessment performed by Group finance of the thatatevery level of the organisation, at all times, all audit process and their overall view of the external employees conduct through their own actions, their auditors and the audit process dealings internally and with third parties with the highest Completion of a survey by the Audit Committee standards of honesty, integrity and fairness and foster A meeting between the Audit Committee and anenvironment based on such standards, as well as  PwC in the absence of complying with all related legislation within the countries management inwhich they operate.
The Group has its own internal procedures for monitoring compliance set out in its Code Following this review and discussion of its results, the of Business Conduct, but also relies on its employees and Audit Committee agreed to recommend to the Board the external bodies speaking up where they become aware reappointment of the external auditors.
of actual or potential breaches of it.
Speaking up relates to the disclosure of information by an employee or external ROTATION OF AUDITORS body if they have a genuine concern about malpractice anywhere in the Group, such as instances of contravention While the Group does not consider it necessary to have a of internal policies and legal and ethical standards, formal requirement for rotation of external auditors, it has including activities or inactivities that put at risk the health taken guidance from the Code which states that all FTSE and safety of Group employees or others, breaches of any 350 Companies should put the external audit contract environmental or regulatory requirements, bribery and out to tender at least every ten years.
The Committee has corruption, false accounting, fraud and failure to comply introduced a policy under which every three years it will with a legal obligation or a deliberate concealment of consider the appropriateness of putting the external information relating to any of the above.
audit out to tender and will inform the shareholders of their decision.
During 2013, a review of the Kentz speak-up policy was conducted and a comparison to best practice and peer The Group also has a policy on the rotation of audit companies was made.
The only weakness identified was partners.
This policy requires the lead partner to that Kentz does not have a dedicated reporting hotline.
changeafter a maximum period of five years and all other partners including the review partner to rotate after However, it was noted that most peer companies also did a maximum period of seven years.
not have such a hotline and that Kentz had adequate communication channels appropriate for the speak-up UK BRIBERY ACT 2010 policy.
It was agreed that the speak-up policy is currently The new UK Bribery Act came into force in July 2011.
No sufficient for the Group.
Kentz employee may take part in or condone any bribery or other corruption.
The use of improper payments to The Code of Business Conduct can be found on the gain advantage is never acceptable.
All Kentz employees Kentz website www.
must act with integrity at all times, comply with the bribery and corruption laws of the country in which they are operating and not induce or facilitate someone else to break such laws.
They must not make or receive improper payments either directly or indirectly through third parties.
During 2013, as part of Kentzs adherence to the UK Bribery Act, 1,090 employees throughout the Group completed an on-line training programme along with a competency test which covered Trust and reputation: Laws and offences: and Policies and procedures.
