Governance Corporate governance statement Introduction Board of directors Matters considered by the Board during The Board recognises the importance of The Board is responsible to the year included: high standards of corporate governance shareholders for the success of and is committed to managing the the Company.
The Board develops the Groups strategy, budgets, Groups operations in accordance the Groups strategy, monitors and structure and financing requirements: with the principles set out in the June reviews its business performance the Groups annual and interim 2010 version of The UK Corporate and controls risk.
The Board has put financial statements taking into Governance Code the Code.
The in place reporting processes and account the views of the Risk Company has complied with the Main other controls which are designed to Management and Audit Committee : Principles of the Code throughout the ensure that it is provided with relevant year.
The Company has also complied information on a timely basis, which the Groups interim management with the Code Provisions set out in the set authorisation limits and which statements: Code throughout the year, except to the reserve certain significant matters for the efficiency of the Groups operating extent explained in this annual report.
the Board or its committees.
structure and cost base: The Board notes that a revised version The Groups chairman, who leads the implications of prevailing economic of the Code was published in September the Board, is Phil White.
The conditions and the appropriate 2012 which is expressed to apply to chairman is responsible for the strategy relating to them: accounting periods beginning on or Boards effectiveness and sets its after 1 October 2012 and intends to agenda, ensuring that the directors potential acquisitions and disposals, comply with this version of the Code receive accurate, timely and clear including, in particular, the acquisition as it considers appropriate during the information.
The chairman also of May Gurney: financial year ending 30 June 2014. facilitates the effective contribution the integration of May Gurney: of the non-executive directors and Ian Lawson retired as a member of the ensures a positive and constructive material operational issues and Board with effect from 21 June 2013. relationship between the executive opportunities: For the remainder of the year, the Board and non-executive directors.
The comprised four executive directors health and safety issues: chairman is responsible for effective and four independent non-executive communication with shareholders the Groups pension schemes: directors, together with the chairman.
and for ensuring that the directors The current executive directors are: material human resources issues continually update their skills and Paul Sheffield chief executive, Haydn affecting the Group, including knowledge, and familiarity with the Mursell finance director and Steve succession planning and diversity Group, in order to fulfil their roles.
The both at Board level and throughout Phil Whites other significant Board believes that its current structure the Group: and commitments are his roles as is satisfactorily balanced, with the chairman of The Unite Group plc and the Groups strategy with respect to independent non-executive directors Lookers plc and as a non-executive disputes or proceedings including having a substantial presence in Board director of Stagecoach Group plc the issues relating to the Castlepoint debate, constructively challenging the and Vp plc.
Shopping Centre car park, executive directors and assisting in the Bournemouth or issues otherwise The Groups chief executive is development of strategy.
potentially adversely affecting the Paul Sheffield, who is responsible Groups reputation.
for the operational management of the Group and is accountable to the Board for the implementation of the Groups strategy.
The chief executive meets regularly with the other executive directors focusing on a variety of matters, including strategy, the Groups cost base and overall efficiency, the integration of May Gurney, succession planning and other material issues facing the Group, the management of the Groups businesses and the Groups company secretary, human resources director and health and safety director.
52 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements The senior independent non-executive Board performance evaluation Risk Management and Audit director is Chris Geoghegan.
He is During the year, the chairman, with the Committee available to shareholders if they have assistance of the company secretary, concerns which contact through the conducted a performance evaluation of Members of the Risk Management and normal channels of the chairman, the the Board.
Audit Committee chief executive or the other executive The aim of the evaluation process directors has failed to resolve or for Richard Bailey chair was to obtain open and constructive which such contact is inappropriate.
feedback that would: Chris Geoghegan In addition, the senior independent nonprovide an insight into the Boards, executive director is responsible for the Amanda Mellor and each individual directors appraisal of the chairmans performance.
Nick Winser effectiveness: The Board considers Richard Bailey, Chris Geoghegan, Amanda Mellor and assist to develop an action plan to Nick Winser to be independent directors.
ensure that the Board operates as The Risk Management and Audit The chairman of the Board, Phil White, effectively as possible: and Committee comprises the non-executive was also considered to be independent directors.
Richard Bailey, a chartered establish a benchmark for measuring on his appointment.
accountant with recent and relevant future progress.
financial experience, is the chairman A table of attendance of directors The feedback confirmed that the of the committee.
The secretary of the at meetings of the Board and its directors believed that the Board committee is Hugh Raven.
committees is set out on page 56. operated effectively, with meetings Outside the formal schedule of meetings, The committee met four times during generally including constructive and the non-executive directors met without the year.
These meetings were also challenging debate.
A report comprising the executive directors during the year.
attended by the Group finance director the feedback received was produced by and the director responsible for internal All directors have access to the advice the company secretary and, together audit.
The KPMG audit engagement and services of the company secretary with an action plan to ensure the partner attended all of the meetings and the directors are also able to seek continued effective performance of and met the chairman of the committee independent professional advice, if the Board, was tabled and discussed without management being present.
necessary, at the Companys expense.
at the Board meeting held in August The chairman of the Board is invited to Training is available for new directors 2013.
A separate report relating to attend the committee meetings and the and subsequently as is considered the performance of the chairman was executive directors attend when it is necessary.
All directors are subject also produced, with feedback being considered necessary or appropriate for to election by shareholders at the provided to the chairman by the senior them to do so.
first annual general meeting following independent non-executive director.
Under the Articles, The Board expects that its performance The committee has clearly defined each director is subject to re-election evaluation for the 2014 financial year terms of reference which outline its thereafter at intervals of no more will be externally facilitated.
objectives and responsibilities relating than three years.
However, at the to financial reporting, internal controls, In addition, throughout the year, the forthcoming annual general meeting risk management and the application chairman of the Board held regular of the Company, notwithstanding the of appropriate accounting policies discussions with members of the provisions of the Articles, all of the and procedures.
Board and the company secretary to directors will offer themselves for assess the performance of the Board, The committee is responsible for re-election in accordance with the its committees and the individual monitoring and reviewing the Groups Code.
Executive directors are required directors.
Actions arising from these internal audit function.
The director to seek approval from the Board before discussions were implemented responsible for internal audit meets the accepting any external non-executive throughout the year.
chairman of the committee to discuss the positions, although no such positions function and the Groups internal controls.
The executive directors service agreements and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be on display prior to and at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Governance Corporate governance statement Continued During the course of the year, PwC was Before engaging KPMG in relation to Matters considered by the Risk engaged as an outsourced internal audit the project, the Board conducted a Management and Audit Committee and assurance provider to deliver specific tender process comprising three firms during the year included: expertise, experience and resource of an appropriate size and having recent alongside the internal audit function.
The Board reviewing and recommending for considered that KPMG were the most approval by the Board the annual and The committee is also responsible appropriate in light of the size and interim financial statements: for monitoring and reviewing the complexity of the Groups business and performance, independence and agreeing the scope and reviewing the operations, principally because of their objectivity of KPMG, the external auditor.
results of the external audit: recent and relevant experience having The provision of non-audit services conducted similar exercises within the reviewing the effectiveness of the by KPMG over a predetermined cost construction sector and the strength Groups internal controls and risk threshold, other than tax compliance and depth of their resources.
management processes: and routine taxation advice, must Prior to the commencement of KPMGs approving the internal audit plan: be referred to and agreed by the work, the Board agreed a process with committee and any work costed below reviewing progress against the internal KPMG to ensure that an appropriate that threshold must be pre-approved audit plan and the key findings of ethical wall was established between by the Group finance director.
These the audits: the audit function and the consultancy controls enable the committee to be team engaged on the project.
planning the integration of May Gurney satisfied that KPMGs objectivity and and its risk management processes independence as auditor has not been KPMG were also engaged to conduct within the Group: impaired, notwithstanding the provision due diligence on May Gurney and also of non-audit services in the year.
to act as reporting accountants on the monitoring the effectiveness of the transaction.
In light of the accelerated The fees paid to KPMG during the internal audit function: and timetable and the significance of the year in respect of non-audit services agreeing the scope of KPMGs audit, transaction to the Group, the Board were 1,177,000 2012: 85,500, the level of remuneration paid to decided that it would be appropriate to of which 50,000 related to advice in KPMG and the extent of KPMGs engage KPMG for both exercises.
connection with the potential disposal non-audit services.
of a non-core IT asset, 183,000 to Before engaging KPMG with respect advice in connection with the Groups to the potential disposal of a non-core organisational efficiency and cost base IT asset, the Board also conducted a The committee notes the changes reduction project, 868,000 to due tender process, involving three potential to its responsibilities and the Annual diligence and reporting accountants advisers.
It was decided that it would Report disclosure requirements which advice in connection with the be appropriate to select KPMG because were introduced by the September acquisition of May Gurney, 45,000 of its combined corporate finance and 2012 version of the Code and will to the auditing of the Corporate IT expertise, together with the extent of take such changes into account Responsibility Annual Report and its general resources.
and those included in the Financial 31,000 to tax advice and providing Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit The committee acknowledges that the tax-related software licences.
The Committees September 2012 version level of non-audit fees incurred during audit fees for the year were 727,000. as it considers appropriate during the the year is significantly in excess of the The total fees for non-audit services financial year ending 30 June 2014. audit fees for the year.
The committee represented approximately 162% of therefore wrote to, and met with, The committees terms of reference are the audit fees paid for the year 2012: certain key shareholders to explain available on the Companys website and 11%.
why it believed that it was appropriate on request from the company secretary.
In relation to the Groups organisational to appoint KPMG with respect to the Remuneration Committee efficiency and cost base reduction three projects described above.
The project, a further instalment of committee will continue to liaise with approximately 800,000 is currently shareholders to manage any concerns Members of the Remuneration estimated as being payable in the 2014 appropriately and to ensure the Committee financial year, together with a final continued independence of the Groups Chris Geoghegan chair instalment of approximately 350,000 auditors.
As part of the audit process in the 2015 financial year.
The total for the year ended 30 June 2013, KPMG Richard Bailey fees currently estimated to be payable has confirmed that, with respect to this Amanda Mellor to KPMG for their advice in respect of period, it was independent within the this project is, therefore, approximately meaning of applicable regulatory and Phil White 1.3m.
Nick Winser 54 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements The Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Safety, Health and Environment comprises the non-executive directors.
Committee SHE Committee Chris Geoghegan is the chairman of Members of the Nomination Committee the committee.
The secretary of the Members of the SHE Committee Amanda Mellor chair committee is Hugh Raven.
Nick Winser chair Richard Bailey The committee met five times during Amanda Mellor the year.
The meetings were also Chris Geoghegan attended by the chief executive, the Phil White finance director and the Groups The SHE Committee comprises human resources director when it was Nick Winser Nick Winser and Amanda Mellor, considered appropriate for them to although the executive directors of do so.
the Group and the health and safety The Nomination Committee comprises The committee makes recommendations director are invited, and expected, the Groups non-executive directors.
to the Board on the Companys to attend meetings, unless they are Amanda Mellor is the chair of the framework of executive remuneration notified to the contrary.
The secretary of the and determines, on its behalf, specific executive directors, including the committee is Hugh Raven.
remuneration packages for each of the chairman, are invited to attend all or executive directors.
In doing so, it takes The committee met once during the year.
The secretary of the advice of independent external the committee is Hugh Raven.
The The committee is responsible for consultants.
Further information relating committee met for the first time in monitoring the composition and to the committee and its workings is February 2013 and also met in balance of the Board, making contained in the directors remuneration June 2013. recommendations to the Board on report on pages 58 to 67. new Board appointments and The committee is responsible for succession planning.
assisting the Board with respect to Matters considered by the Remuneration reviewing i the Groups strategy Matters considered by the Nomination Committee during the year included: with respect to safety, health and Committee during the year included: environmental SHE matters, ii the approving the 2012 directors Groups exposure to SHE risks and iii the structure of the Board following remuneration report: Group-wide SHE initiatives, policies and the acquisition of May Gurney: approving the bonuses paid to the procedures and monitoring the Groups the appointment of Steve Bowcott to executive directors in respect of the performance against SHE targets.
the role of chief operating officer: 2012 financial year: Matters considered by the SHE Haydn Mursell assuming operational reviewing the executive directors Committee during the year included: responsibility for the Property division: remuneration and consulting with shareholders in relation to proposed the Groups accident incident rate, the performance of the executive changes for the 2014 financial year: including the reasons for any material directors: and changes in the rate: setting the performance measures succession planning for the Board.
relating to, and the quantum of, material new Group-wide initiatives, awards under the Groups long-term policies and procedures: and incentive plan to be made to the The committees terms of reference May Gurneys SHE record and the executive directors during the 2012 are available on the Companys integration of May Gurneys SHE financial year: and website and on request from the policies and procedures within the company secretary.
developments in executive remuneration and their effect on the The committees terms of reference Companys existing arrangements.
are available on the Companys website and on request from the company secretary.
The committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website and on request from the company secretary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Overmatter Governance Corporate governance statement Continued Board and committee meetings Risk Board Management Remuneration Nomination SHE Details of the number of meetings 10 and Audit 4 5 1 2 of the full Board and its committees 1 Richard Bailey 9 4 5 1 during the year are set out in the adjacent table.
The table also sets out Steve Bowcott 10 the number of Board meetings attended Chris Geoghegan 10 4 5 1 by each director and the number of Ian Lawson 10 committee meetings attended by each Amanda Mellor 10 4 5 1 2 director as a member of the relevant Haydn Mursell 10 committee during the year.
Paul Sheffield 10 The executive directors are not members of the Board committees Phil White 10 5 1 but are invited to attend meetings of Nick Winser 10 4 5 1 2 these committees when it is considered 1 Richard Bailey was unable to attend the Board meeting held on 15 May 2013 due to illness.
necessary or appropriate for them to do so.
For example, Paul Sheffield and Haydn Mursell attended the Risk The key features of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls include: Management and Audit Committee an established management structure internal audits to assess the adequacy meetings in their respective capacities operates throughout the Group, with and effectiveness of internal controls.
as chief executive and finance director clearly defined levels of responsibility The scope of the internal audit work and Paul Sheffield, Ian Lawson and and delegation of authority: covers the key risks faced by the Steve Bowcott attended both of the business and is supplemented by cyclical SHE Committee meetings.
clearly defined operating guidelines and reviews of the core financial process.
Phil White is not a member of the Risk procedures with authorisation limits set Internal audit findings are reported to the Management and Audit Committee but, at appropriate levels: Risk Management and Audit Committee as chairman of the Board, attended the a comprehensive budgeting and and the executive directors on a regular committees meetings during the year.
forecasting process, which is regularly basis: Risk management and internal controls reviewed and updated: risk registers for each business unit The Code requires that the directors a formal quarterly review of each highlighting key risks facing that review the effectiveness of the Groups divisions year-end forecast, business business, together with an assessment risk management and internal control performance, risk and internal control of the effectiveness of controls to systems and that this review covers all matters which is carried out by the mitigate those risks: material controls, including financial, directors of each division with the chief operational and compliance controls.
an assurance-mapping process to ensure executive and finance director in the coordination of risk assurance within The Board has overall responsibility attendance: the Group: for the Groups systems of risk monthly management reporting, including management and internal control and a process of risk and control selfregular comparison of actual results for reviewing their effectiveness.
As assessment requiring all operating against latest forecasts: a result, the Board has put in place companies to review and confirm that an ongoing process for identifying, established policies and procedures appropriate internal controls are in place evaluating and managing the significant governing the Groups investment in land, and operating effectively across the key risks faced by the Group.
The Board property and other significant assets, risk areas.
The findings of the considers that the Groups systems and including acquisitions and disposals.
assessment are reviewed by the Risk controls, which have been developed These include detailed appraisals, Management and Audit Committee: and refined over many years, are appropriate authorisation levels and reviewing and reporting of safety, health appropriately designed to ensure that Board approval depending on value or and environmental matters: and the Groups exposure to significant perceived exposure: risks is properly managed.
However, the provision of a confidential method of investment decisions and tenders for such systems are designed to manage reporting any suspected fraud or similar contracts being subject to approval by the rather than eliminate the risk of failure matter to the director responsible for Board, the chief executive and the to achieve business objectives and internal audit, the company secretary or finance director or divisional directors, can only provide reasonable and not the Groups human resources director, as depending on the value and nature of the appropriate.
investment or contract: 56 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Overmatter Overmatter absolute assurance against material The Board uses the annual general misstatement.
In reviewing the meeting to communicate directly with effectiveness of internal controls, the shareholders and encourages their directors have taken into account the attendance at this event, where the Financial Reporting Councils Internal chairmen of the Boards committees Control: Guidance for Directors are present to answer questions.
The formerly known as The Turnbull chairman of the Board also meets Guidance and have considered the regularly with individual shareholders key risks and exposures within the to obtain their views on a variety of Group.
The Group has entered into a matters, as does the chairman of the number of joint ventures, which are not Remuneration Committee in relation controlled by a member of the Group: to remuneration matters.
these joint ventures are not included for The Board invites investors, brokers the purposes of the assessment of the and analysts to visit the Groups Groups internal controls.
projects so as to demonstrate the The Board receives regular reports scope and scale of its activities.
These relating to the Groups operating units site visits also include a series of to monitor their performance and presentations by members of the Board business unit management teams are and members of senior management briefed on relevant issues arising at about the Groups operations.
The Group also regularly engages with During the course of a year, members a range of shareholders in relation of the Board visit a number of the to its corporate responsibility CR Groups significant business units and programme.
During the year, it also the Board also monitors the control liaised with a number of shareholders framework of each business.
The Risk in relation to environmental, social Management and Audit Committee and governance ESG issues including reviews the appropriateness and questions arising from the FTSE4 Good effectiveness of the Groups internal ESG ratings.
The Group has continued controls and did not consider that any to engage proactively with the ESG significant internal control failings or or responsible investment executives weaknesses were identified by the of a number of major institutional review conducted during the course investors to seek their feedback on its of the year.
As part of this process, the Group has again engaged KPMG Relations with shareholders to provide independent assurance for The Company has a programme of its 2013 CR Annual Report and is now regular communication and meetings reporting against the Global Reporting with investors, investment analysts Initiative GRI standard C. and brokers.
This includes detailed presentations to investors, analysts The Groups website, which, and the media when the Company during the year, was updated and announces its annual and interim re-branded, plays a significant role results, together with additional in its communication with investors, engagement following the release of customers, its supply chain, the media its interim management statements.
In addition, the This programme assists the Board Group also communicates via a range to understand the views of major of social media tools, including Twitter shareholders about the Group, and YouTube.
For example, during its performance and its strategic the year, the chief executive delivers objectives.
Independent feedback is various trading updates via video also provided to the Board by analysts announcements which also feature and institutional shareholders.
on the Groups YouTube site and have alerts and links via Twitter.
