34 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance AN EFFICIENT, CHALLENGING AND DIVERSE BOARD IS ESSENTIAL TO ENABLE THE BUSINESS TO DELIVER ITS STRATEGY AND SHAREHOLDERS LONG-TERM INTERESTS.
Daniel Bernard Chairman For a PDF of the Corporate Governance Report, go to http: annualreport.
com 2012-13 In addition, a new Group Operating Board was established, and Dear Shareholder this committee will focus on the delivery of the Groups strategy.
I am pleased to present the Companys Corporate Governance The revised Group governance structure, together with an overview report for the year ended 2 February 2013.
The aim of this of each of these Committees, is set out on pages 38 to 39. report is to provide a clear and meaningful explanation of the Maintaining and promoting the highest standards of corporate Companys governance arrangements, which we consider to governance remains central to my role as Chairman, and I am be essential for the long-term success of the Company, and the pleased to endorse this Corporate Governance Report, which I promotion of the highest standards of corporate governance.
believe demonstrates how, through its actions, the Board and its The Board remains committed to promoting the highest Committees fulfil their governance responsibilities and embed standards of corporate governance, understanding that an good governance practices on an on-going basis.
efficient, challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable Daniel Bernard the business to deliver its strategy and shareholders long-term Chairman interests, whilst generating stakeholder confidence that the 25 March 2013 business is conducting itself in a responsible manner.
As part of its overall governance arrangements, the Companys Code of Conduct, which mandates minimum standards of behaviour Compliance with the UK Corporate for all employees and suppliers, was updated and relaunched Governance Code across the Group during the year.
The Board is required to report on the operations of the As last year, this report reviews the operation of the Company Company by reference to the UK Corporate Governance Code by reference to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code the Code, and has reviewed its operations and governance and a statement of compliance with the Code is set out framework to ensure that they reflect the principles of the opposite.
The Company is required to report its compliance Code.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing against the revised 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code for Authority, the Board confirms that, throughout the year ended its financial year commencing 3 February 2013, and we are 2 February 2013, and as at the date of this report, the confident that it will be able to report compliance with the Company has complied with the provisions set out in revisions within our 2013 14 annual report.
Section 1 of the Code, save for as set out below.
This report, together with the Directors Report on pages 31 to Provision D. 1.1 provides that grants under long-term incentive 32, and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 59, schemes should normally be phased rather than awarded in provides details of how the Company has applied the principles one large block.
and complied with the provisions of the Code.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
As reported in our 2011 12 annual report, the Company set stretching long-term targets for management as part of the The Board constantly reviews its governance framework, Creating the Leader phase of Kingfishers strategy.
The adjusting where necessary the roles, structure and Remuneration Committee approved awards under the accountabilities of its mechanisms of governance.
During the Performance Share Plan of up to 500% of base salary.
year, the governance structure below the Board and primary The award was higher than the normal award of 200% but committee level was reviewed.
As part of the review the terms in making it, the Committee took into account the fact that of reference of the Group Executive Committee, the Kingfisher no further awards would be made under the Plan until the Capex Committee and the Financial Initiatives, Tax and Treasury financial year 2014 15, and felt that it created a better focus Committee, were all reviewed and, where necessary, amended on a single performance period aligned to the next phase of to reflect the operations of those committees and the powers the Groups strategy, rather than the more commonly used delegated to them.
As part of the review, the Group Executive overlapping performance periods.
Committee will focus on the development of the Groups strategy, and its membership was expanded and enhanced.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 35 There is an established, formal, rigorous and transparent Leadership procedure for the selection and appointment of new directors to the Board, and this is described in the Nomination Committee The role of the Board Report on page 43.
During the year, Kevin OByrne stepped The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management, down as Group Finance Director to take up the role of CEO direction and performance of the Group, and leads and B&Q and Kota s brands, and was replaced by Karen Witts, controls the Groups business.
The Board is also responsible who joined the Board on 1 October 2012.
Euan Sutherland for ensuring appropriate resources are in place to achieve and Philippe Tible were appointed to the Board as executive its strategy and deliver sustainable performance.
Mr Sutherland subsequently authorities delegated to its Committees, the Board directs and stepped down from the Board on 31 January 2013 ahead of reviews the Groups operations within an agreed framework leaving the Group in March 2013. of controls, allowing risk to be assessed and managed within agreed parameters.
The Board is collectively accountable to the At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 June 2013, Companys shareholders for the proper conduct and success shareholders will be asked to appoint Karen Witts and Philippe of the business.
Tible and, in accordance with Principle B.
7.1 of the Code, reappoint their fellow directors.
The Boards powers are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, which are available to view on its website, and Role of the non-executive directors may be amended by a special resolution of its members.
Non-executive directors provide a strong, independent and The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the external insight to the Board and its Committees, and have Articles, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and a wealth of experience and business knowledge from other applicable legislation.
The terms and conditions of appointment of each of the non-executive directors are available The Board has established a formal schedule of matters for inspection at the Companys registered office and will also reserved for its approval, and has delegated other specific be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
responsibilities to its principal committees: the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
These are clearly During the year, the Board considered the independence of defined within the written terms of reference of the respective each of the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, committees.
Information on the responsibilities and work of who was deemed independent by the Board at the date of each of the Boards committees is set out on pages 40 to 44. his appointment against the criteria specified in the Code, and concluded that each remained fully independent of During the year, as part of its annual review process, the matters management and free from any relationship that could reserved for the Board were reviewed, and, where necessary interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
amended to reflect best practice.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes the consideration and Role of the Senior Independent Director approval of: Since his appointment in January 2012, Mark Seligman has acted as Senior Independent Director SID, supporting the the Groups overall strategy, medium-term plans and Chairman, and is available for approach or representation from annual budgets: significant shareholders who feel they are unable to raise issues financial statements and Group dividend policy including with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance recommendation of the final dividend: Director.
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils FRC guidelines, the role of the SID is formally set out in major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure: writing, and available on the Companys website.
During the major changes to the capital structure including tax and year, there were no requests from shareholders or other treasury management: Board directors for access to the SID.
major changes to accounting policies or practices: Roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive There is a clear division of responsibilities between the the Groups corporate governance and compliance Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
As part of its arrangements: annual review process, the Board reviewed the written roles the system of internal control and risk management policy: of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive to ensure they and remained compliant with, and took account of, best practice developments, and were in line with FRC guidance.
The review of management development strategy.
written roles are available to view on the Companys website.
Composition of the Board The Chairman is responsible for the overall operation, The Board is made up of a non-executive Chairman, four leadership and governance of the Board, setting the tone and executive directors and six non-executive directors.
The current style of Board discussions, and creating the conditions for balance of the Boards skills, experience and knowledge, overall Board and individual director effectiveness.
He is also together with regular briefings by executives below Board level, responsible for ensuring that all members of the Board develop ensures that views, perceptions and discussions are not an understanding of the views of major shareholders, that there dominated by any one specific view.
The composition of the is an open dialogue with shareholders, and that the Chairmen of Board is continually reviewed to ensure it remains suitable for the Boards principal committees are available to answer the needs of the business, and this continues to be the primary shareholder questions at the Annual General Meeting.
focus of the Nomination Committee.
com 36 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued The Group Chief Executive, Ian Cheshire, is responsible for all Effectiveness executive management of the Groups business, consistent with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
Board meetings He leads the Group Executive team in effecting decisions The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout of the Board and its Committees, and is responsible for the the year and holds unscheduled supplementary meetings as maintenance and protection of the reputation of the Company and when necessary.
These meetings are structured to allow and its subsidiaries.
The Group Chief Executive is also open discussion.
At each meeting the Board receives certain responsible for promoting and conducting the affairs of the regular reports which include an update from the Group Chief Group with the highest standards of integrity, probity and Executive, current trading finance including liquidity reports corporate governance.
from the Group Finance Director, capital expenditure approvals and reports from the Company Secretary including governance, Company Secretary legal, insurance and risk, and corporate responsibility updates The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its and people-related updates from the Group Human committees and, with the consent of the Board, may delegate Resources Director.
responsibility for the management of the committees to other suitably qualified staff.
The Company Secretary is also All directors participate in discussing strategy, trading and responsible for ensuring that correct Board procedures are financial performance, and risk management of the Group.
followed, and advises the Board on corporate governance Comprehensive briefing papers are circulated to all directors matters.
All directors have access to the advice and services approximately one week before each meeting in digital format.
of the Company Secretary, and their appointment and removal Should a director be unable to attend a particular meeting, they is one of the matters reserved to the Board.
The Board also are provided with all relevant briefing papers and are given the has access to the Group General Counsel for legal and opportunity to discuss any issues with the Chairman or the Group compliance advice.
Chief Executive and, where possible, participate by telephone for critical discussions and approvals on specific matters.
Diversity on the Board In September 2011, the Board announced its approach to The Board generally meets at the Groups head office in London diversity.
The statement, which is available on the Companys and holds at least one meeting each year overseas.
During the website, confirmed that the Board is committed to ensuring year under review, the Board held a meeting in Paris, and directors of the Company possess, and demonstrate a broad reviewed the Brico Dpt and Castorama brands in France, balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and Poland, Russia and Spain.
In addition to its normal meetings, diversity, including gender diversity.
During the year, the at least once per year, the Board holds a meeting off site, which Nomination Committee considered the diversity of candidates focuses on presentations from the UK executive team and short-listed for the role of Group Finance Director before includes visits to UK stores.
During the year, the Board held appointing Karen Witts on 1 October 2012.
The Board two such meetings and visited the Groups regional Distribution believes that balanced and diverse Boards are effective, and Centre and a B&Q store in Swindon.
It is the Boards intention is committed to maximising the benefits of a diverse workforce to conduct at least one meeting each year outside the UK in a to deliver real sustainable benefits for the Group and country in which the Group operates.
At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman will The charts below demonstrate the gender split at Board level, arrange meetings consisting of just the non-executive directors.
One Team Leadership Group level, and for the workforce During the year, the Chairman and non-executive directors met as a whole.
without the executive directors, and there were no matters of concern raised at this meeting.
Gender split Board One Team Leadership Group Total workforce Female 27% Female 22% Female 40% Male 73% Male 78% Male 60% Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 37 The Chairman maintains regular contact with the Senior strategic oversight: Independent Director and met with each of the non-executive risk management and internal control: and directors individually as part of the Board evaluation discussions.
succession planning and human resource management.
Activities during the year During the year, in addition to its regular business, the Board: The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board at its meeting in January 2013.
No significant issues were highlighted oversaw the development and articulation of the Groups Net and the review clearly indicated that the Board continued to Positive strategy: work efficiently and effectively, and that the contribution and approved the process for the review of the Companys defined commitment of each director, and their interaction with each benefit pension scheme, and approved the curtailment of that other, was good, and that the non-executive directors offered scheme to new members and an enhancement of the robust challenge where appropriate.
As a result of the defined contribution scheme: evaluation, the Board agreed to undertake the following activities during the 2013 14 financial year: reviewed the Groups risk profile and defined the process by which the risk appetite of the Board would be established: review the forward business agenda to ensure that there is sufficient time to focus on common key Group programmes considered and approved the commencement of the and initiatives: examinership process for its business in Ireland: maintain oversight of the Groups performance relative to its reviewed the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policies and competitors and customer trends: and procedures to ensure continued compliance with the UK Bribery Act: and increase its exposure to the Groups senior management below the Board.
received regular strategic presentations from management and held deep dive discussions with management of the As part of the evaluation process, the Group Chief Executive Groups Operating Companies, information technology and carried out a performance review of the executive directors.
In addition, the non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, conducted the performance review Board evaluation of the Chairman in respect of the financial year.
The Board conducts a review of its performance each year.
During the year under review, the Board evaluated its The Board has confirmed that the contribution of each of the effectiveness using an externally facilitated questionnaire and directors continues to be effective and that shareholders should a series of one-to-one interviews between each director and the be supportive of their appointment or re-appointment to the Chairman.
The questionnaire was developed by reference to Board.
Biographical details of each director are set out on the topics discussed and recommendations made during the pages 28 to 29. previous evaluation, and drafted following discussions between The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness the Chairman, the Company Secretary and the external facilitator, and development in the year ahead, and the Chairman will use Lintstock.
Responses to the questionnaire were collated and the the output of the most recent Board evaluation in his individual output was used by the Chairman in his individual meetings meetings with directors during the year.
with directors as part of the evaluation process.
6.2 of the Code, which requires The areas considered during the evaluation were: Boards to undertake an externally facilitated evaluation at least Board composition: every three years, the Board intends to appoint a suitable independent facilitator during the year to conduct the 2013 14 Board expertise: performance evaluation, and will report on the findings of that evaluation within the 2013 14 annual report.
Board and Committee meeting attendance The following table shows the number of years each director has served on the Board as at the financial year end, and their attendance at the scheduled Board and Committee meetings which they were eligible to attend: Tenure Audit Remuneration Nomination in years Board Committee Committee Committee 3 Daniel Bernard 6 9 9 4 4 3 4 3 Andrew Bonfield 38 94 4 3 4 3 4 Pascal Cagni 28 9 4 4 Clare Chapman 2 9 9 4 4 4 4 Ian Cheshire 12 9 9 3 Anders Dahlvig 3 8 9 3 4 3 4 3 Janis Kong 6 9 9 4 4 4 4 3 4 Kevin OByrne 4 9 9 Mark Seligman 1 9 9 4 4 4 4 1, 2 Euan Sutherland 1 3 3 1 Philippe Tible 1 3 3 1 Karen Witts 13 3 1 Euan Sutherland, Philippe Tible and Karen Witts were appointed to the Board with effect from 1 October 2012.
2 Euan Sutherland retired from the Board following the meeting on 31 January 2013.
3 Directors did not attend meetings where their reappointment was considered.
com 38 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Induction, information and professional development the requisite knowledge, ability and experience to perform the All new directors appointed to the Board receive an induction functions required of a director of a listed company.
There pack as part of their comprehensive induction programme is also an agreed procedure whereby directors may take tailored to their experience, background and particular areas independent professional advice at the Groups expense in of focus.
The induction programme is designed to develop the furtherance of their duties.
directors knowledge and understanding of the Groups Conflicts of interest operations and culture.
Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to The induction programme includes: avoid a situation where he or she may have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts with the interests of the Company.
The individual one-to-one meetings with the Chairman, the Group Company has robust procedures in place to identify, authorise Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and other directors: and manage such conflicts of interest, and these procedures site visits to the Groups stores and those of its competitors: have operated effectively during the year.
meetings with management of the Groups Operating A register of directors situational and transactional conflicts is Companies and other senior management: and maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
The Board confirmed during the year if required, external training courses at the Groups expense.
that there were no situations of which they were aware which In accordance with best practice, the Chairman considers and would, or potentially could, give rise to conflicts with the addresses the development needs of the Board as a whole, if interests of the Company, other than those that might arise from any, and ensures that each director updates their individual directors other appointments, which are set out in the directors skills, knowledge and expertise.
Following the appointment of three new executive directors Committees during the year, the Company Secretary arranged for the Groups The Board has delegated authority to its principal committees corporate lawyers to provide a training session on their duties and to carry out certain tasks as defined in each committees responsibilities as directors of a UK listed company.
Amongst other respective terms of reference.
The written terms of reference topics, the training covered Listing Rules compliance and the in respect of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination control and release of inside information, and provided case Committees are available on the Companys website.
The studies and practical situations for the directors to consider.
Board is satisfied that the terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the UK Corporate Subsequent training in specific aspects of the Groups Governance Code.
The terms of reference of the principal businesses is provided to directors, when requested, or regularly committees are reviewed on an on-going basis.
Directors are briefed on issues at Board and Committee meetings and have full and timely access to relevant The minutes of committee meetings are made available to all information ahead of each meeting.
In addition, at each Board meeting, the chairmen of each of the principal committees provide the The Board also receives reports on circumstances where issues Board with a brief synopsis of the work carried out by the and concerns have been raised by the Companys institutional committee, if any, between Board meetings.
This process allows directors to develop necessary understanding of the views of these shareholders In addition to the principal committees, the Board is supported and also enables the Board to judge whether investors have a by the work of the Group Executive Committee and its sufficient understanding of the Groups objectives.
Together these committees form a fundamental element of the Companys corporate governance framework, In addition to planned development and briefings, directors are although they are not formally appointed committees of the expected to take responsibility for identifying their own individual Board.
The Groups governance structure is set out below.
A needs and to take necessary steps to ensure that they are brief explanation of the work of the Group Executive Committee adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities and the other management committees is set out below: as a director.
The Board is confident that all its members have Organisation and Governance Structure Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Executive King sher Capex Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial Initiatives, Group Operating Tax & Treasury Board Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 39 Group Executive Committee Group Operating Board The responsibilities, structure and composition of the Group The Group Operating Board was established following a review Executive Committee were reviewed and amended during the of the work of the Group Executive Committee in March 2013, year.
The Committee consists of the executive directors, the and is responsible for the day-to-day management of the CEO, Productivity and Development, and the CEO, Group Groups businesses.
In addition, the Group Operating Board Sourcing and Offer.
The Committee meets formally ten times reviews the overall financial performance of the Group against a year under the chairmanship of the Group Chief Executive.
its strategic plans and budget.
The Group Operating Board will The members details are set out on page 30. also review people-related activities as part of its structured agenda, and will conduct deep-dive reviews of key areas The Committees primary focus is the strategic direction of the affecting the business.
The Group Operating Board, which Group.
In addition, the Committee monitors top talent within the meets monthly, comprises all the members of the Group business and reviews key items requiring formal Board approval Executive Committee, the CEOs of B&Q UK & Ireland, including dividend planning, key projects and strategic Castorama France and Brico Dpt brands, the Group capex decisions.
Human Resources Director, and the Finance Director In accordance with its formal terms of reference, the Group of the Brico Dpt and Castorama brands.
Executive Committee is also responsible for reviewing and Kingfisher Capex Committee making recommendations to the Board on: The Capex Committee is responsible for reviewing and strategic and business plans of individual businesses: approving all capital expenditure projects relating to property and non-property proposals in excess of an agreed threshold, the Groups capital structure and funding: which is reviewed periodically.
The decisions of the Committee strategic capital expenditure proposals, major acquisitions are reported to the Board following each meeting, and the or disposals of businesses: Committee will make recommendations to the Board regarding all projects exceeding its agreed approval threshold.
The the Groups key risks: Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, Group management development and senior executive succession Finance Director, Group Property Director, CEO, Group plans: and Productivity and Development, the Group General Counsel, and the Head of Property Finance.
the Groups corporate responsibility programme.
Financial Initiatives, Tax and Treasury Committee During the year, the Committee met seven times and, in The primary purpose of the Committee is to monitor compliance addition to its standing agenda, reviewed: of policies and control issues relating to Group Finance, and to the Groups branding strategies and Group procurement and review key proposals from Group Finance, Treasury, Tax and sourcing arrangements: Secretariat functions, and where appropriate recommend certain initiatives for approval to the Board.
The Committee UK pension reform and the curtailment of the Groups final comprises the Group Finance Director, Group Finance and salary pension scheme and enhancement of the defined Planning Director, Group Treasurer, Group Tax Director, Head contribution scheme: of Group Pensions, Head of Corporate Development, Group operating budgets and monthly trading performance: General Counsel, Company Secretary and Group Audit and Risk Director.
the Groups IT strategy and planning: Details of each of the Boards principal committees, including the Groups Irish business and the examinership process: membership, are set out in the following reports.
strategy for embedding sustainability into Group behaviours: and HR proposals for management development and succession planning.
com 40 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Audit Committee meeting attendance Audit Committee Report From Attendance Andrew Bonfield Chairman 11 02 2010 4 of 4 Anders Dahlvig 16 12 2009 3 of 4 Janis Kong 11 02 2011 4 of 4 Mark Seligman 01 01 2012 4 of 4 Duties In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder is required, amongst other things, to: I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: 2012 13.
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from review, understand and evaluate the Groups internal financial amongst its non-executive directors, and its principal duties are risk, and other internal controls and their associated systems: to provide effective oversight and governance of the internal control and risk management processes of the Company, to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal review the financial statements and related accounting policies, audit function on an annual basis: review the effectiveness of the internal and external audit oversee the relationship with the external auditor, functions and provide updates and recommendations to making recommendations to the Board in relation to their the Board.
appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement: During the year, the Committee continued the analysis of agree the scope of the auditors annual audit programme the Companys risks and associated mitigating controls and and review the output: and focused on compliance, financial governance and internal audit functions.
It maintained its good working relationship with the monitor and review the external auditors independence, Group Audit and Risk Management Director, the Group Finance objectivity and effectiveness and to approve the policy and Planning Director, the Company Secretary and Groups on the engagement of the external auditor to supply external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
The Committee maintained, non-audit services.
reviewed and where necessary amended its standing agenda, The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the which is linked to the Groups financial calendars.
year and are considered fit for purpose and reflect best practice.
In order to improve the understanding of their operations, No amendments were recommended to the Board following the during the year the Committee received in-depth presentations latest review.
The terms of reference are available on the from management of the Groups Operating Companies in Companys website.
the UK, France, Spain, Russia and Turkey, including the Governance key strategic risks impacting each business.
The Committee In accordance with the requirements of provision C. 3.1 of the considered and reviewed the Groups adequate procedures UK Corporate Governance Code, Andrew Bonfield is designated in relation to bribery and corruption, the provision of a as the Committee member with recent and relevant financial whistleblowing service and approved accounting judgements experience.
All other members of the Audit Committee are in relation to the curtailment of the Kingfisher final salary deemed to have the necessary ability and experience to pension scheme.
The attendance by members A fuller description of the operations of the Committee is set at Committee meetings is set out above.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to All members of the Committee receive appropriate induction, answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
in addition to the induction which all new directors receive.
For and on behalf of the Committee The induction programme includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members Andrew Bonfield also obtain access to the Groups operations and staff, Chairman of the Audit Committee and all members of the Committee undertake on-going 25 March 2013 training as required.
The Committee is required, under its terms of reference, to Committee composition meet at least three times a year.
During the year, the Committee The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors: met four times.
The Committee has a standing agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar for consideration at Andrew Bonfield Chairman each meeting, and within the annual audit cycle, to ensure that Anders Dahlvig its work is in line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Janis Kong Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief Executive attended Mark Seligman all meetings, as did the Group Finance Director, Group Audit and Risk Management Director, Group Finance and Planning All Committee members are considered independent in Director and the external auditor.
Private meetings were accordance with provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate also held with the external and internal auditors at which Governance Code.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 41 Detailed below is the key work undertaken by the Committee Group Internal Audit during the year under review and up to the date of this The Committee considered and reviewed updates from the Annual Report.
internal audit programme at each of its meetings during the year.
Reports from the internal audit function to the Committee Activities of the Audit Committee during the year included updates on the Groups risk management systems, Governance processes findings from reviews, and reviews of the remit, organisation, The Committee conducted an externally facilitated questionnaire annual plan and resources of the internal audit function.
During based review of its effectiveness during the year.
The Committee the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the considered the results of the review at its meeting in January internal audit function.
The review was conducted using an 2013, and concluded that it continued to operate effectively internal questionnaire with input from the functions key and provide robust challenge and support to the Board.
It was stakeholders within the Group, in addition to the Committee.
agreed by the Committee that no specific actions were required.
No significant issues were highlighted by the review.
Internal controls and risk External Audit The Committee received and considered reports during the Deloitte LLP were appointed as the external auditor to the year from the Groups external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and the Group in 2009 following a formal tender process.
Groups internal audit function on the work they had undertaken in reviewing and auditing the Group, in order to assess the During the year, the Committee agreed the approach and scope quality and effectiveness of the internal control system.
of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor and undertook an assessment of their qualification, expertise and The Committee considered reports on the output from the resources, independence and the effectiveness of the external Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate audit process.
The Committee also reviewed and agreed the risks and reviewed the annual report on the Groups systems of terms of engagement, the fees, and areas of responsibility and internal control and their effectiveness, and reported the results the work to be undertaken by the external auditor, and agreed of the review to the Board.
Further information on the Groups the fees payable in respect of the 2012 13 audit work.
Details risk management and internal control procedures can be found of the amounts paid to the external auditor for their audit on page 42. services are given in note 7 to the accounts on page 75.
As part of the Committees continuing programme to increase Each of the Groups businesses is consulted on the its awareness of the Groups operations and to understand the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor implementation of Operating Company control processes, the annually.
In addition, the external auditor provides the Committee Committee met with and received presentations from the senior with a schedule of each matter on which there was an initial management of the operating companies in the UK, France, difference between them and management in relation to the Spain, Russia and Turkey.
In addition, the Committee continued accounting treatment, and with the final decisions on these to monitor the progress on the standardisation and improvement issues.
The Committee has reviewed and is satisfied with the of the Groups internal control processes, in a number of effectiveness and independence of the external auditor.
In addition to their statutory duties, the services of Deloitte LLP The Group operates a whistleblowing helpline which allows are also engaged where, as a result of their position as external employees within the Group to make disclosures about auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, perform suspected financial and operational improprieties.
This is primarily work in relation to SpeakUp service was relaunched in 2012 and expanded matters such as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, during the year to be available to the Groups suppliers.
The tax advice, regulatory filings and certain business acquisitions Audit Committee reviewed the Groups overall whistleblowing and disposals.
Other work is awarded on the basis of arrangements to ensure they remained effective, at its meeting competitive tendering.
The Committee reviewed the output from the service and considered the number and type of incidents The Committee reviewed and approved the scope of non-audit reported, and was satisfied that the Group continued to services provided by the external auditor to ensure that there maintain adequate mechanisms for recording disclosures.
was no impairment of independence and objectivity, and subsequently monitored the non-audit work performed to Financial reporting ensure it was within policy guidelines.
The Committee reviewed the annual and interim financial The Group has a policy on the use of its external auditor for statements during the year.
As part of this review, the non-audit work and this is regularly reviewed.
The external Committee considered significant accounting policies, financial auditor is precluded from engaging in non-audit services that reporting issues and judgements including those disclosed in would compromise their independence or violate any laws or note 3 to the financial statements, together with the reports regulations affecting their appointment as external auditor.
received from the external auditor on their findings, including The approval of the Chairman of the Committee is required any control observations relevant to their audit work.
The impact prior to awarding contracts for non-audit services to the on the Groups financial statements of significant corporate external auditor, where in excess of specified amounts.
governance and accounting standards applicable during the The external auditor reports to the Committee annually on year, were considered and reviewed by the Committee.
their independence from the Company.
Periodic rotation of key audit partners is also required.
com 42 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued The Groups policy on the use of the external auditor for Management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the non-audit work can be found on the Companys website.
risks facing the Group in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing The Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte the likelihood of those risks materialising, in identifying the LLP be proposed for re-appointment by shareholders as the Groups ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the Companys external auditor at the forthcoming Annual General business of risks that do materialise, and in ensuring the Meeting.
As a result of its work during the year, the Committee costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to has concluded that it acted in accordance with its terms of the benefit provided.
reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Monitoring There are clear processes for controlling and monitoring the During the year, Deloitte LLP charged the Group 1.6m system of internal control and reporting any significant control 2011 12: 1.4m for audit and audit-related services and a failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
further 0.4m 2011 12: 0.5m for non-audit services during These include: the year.
an annual planning process and regular financial reporting, Accountability, Risk Management and Internal Control comparing results with plan and the previous year on a Internal control monthly and cumulative basis: The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to safeguard the assets of the written reports from the Group Chief Executive and Group and ensure the reliability of the financial information for Group Finance Director submitted at each Board meeting: both internal use and external publication, and to comply with Operating Company management report formally to the Audit the Turnbull guidance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee on a regular basis on the control environment in The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of their business and actions taken to maintain or improve the environment as appropriate: and the internal control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management in accordance reports and presentations to the Board on certain areas with the UK Corporate Governance Code, for the period from of specialist risk.
These include treasury, insurance, tax 29 January 2012 to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
If significant losses were to be incurred during the year as a A formal quarterly certification is provided by the CEO and result of a failure of controls, a detailed report would be provided finance director of each Operating Company stating that to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board confirms that appropriate internal controls were in operation and confirming no significant weaknesses were identified in relation to the compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Any review carried out during the year and therefore no remedial weaknesses are highlighted and the results are reviewed by action was required.
Operating Company management, the Group Audit and Risk The Board has approved a set of policies, procedures and Management Director, the Group Finance and Planning frameworks for effective internal control.
The Group has Director, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The internal procedures for the delegation of authorities for significant audit function monitors and selectively checks the results of matters to ensure approval is sought at the appropriate level.
this exercise, ensuring that representations made are consistent These procedures are subject to regular review and provide an with the results of its work during the year.
on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the The internal audit function follows a planned programme of significant risks faced by the Group.
Such a system is designed reviews that are aligned to the Groups risks.
The function: to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not works with the Operating Companies to develop, improve and absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
embed risk management tools and processes into their business operations: The responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring the system and the maintenance of effective control is delegated reports directly to the Audit Committee and has the authority to the management of each Operating Company.
The Groups to review any relevant part of the Group: enterprise-wide risk management and reporting process helps oversees the operation of the individual operating businesses Group management to identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate audit committees: and risk.
Management at each Operating Company has responsibility for the identification and evaluation of the provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective significant risks applicable to their business and any mitigating assurance on the control environment across the Group.
The Group Executive Committee reviews, Risk appetite identifies and evaluates the risks that are significant at a Group During the year, the Board also considered the nature and level level, as well as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These of risk that it was prepared to accept in order to deliver business are then considered by the Board.
The types of risks identified strategies, and has reviewed and approved the Groups internal included both strategic and material operational risks and are statement of risk appetite.
This describes both the current detailed on pages 25 to 27 of the report.
and desired levels of acceptable risk, supported by high level qualitative risk statements, ensuring that risks are proactively managed to the level desired by the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 43 The Committees terms of reference are reviewed Nomination regularly, approved by the Board, and are available on the Companys website.
Committee Report Activities during the year During the year, the Committee conducted a rigorous search and selection process, carried out with the assistance of an independent executive search company, Blackwood, to identify suitable candidates for the role of Group Finance Director.
Committee composition Candidates with a background in retail or fast moving consumer The Committee comprises the Chairman and all the nongoods were considered preferable, and the Nomination executive directors and meets periodically as required.
External Committee considered a shortlist of internal and external advisors may be invited to attend meetings when particular candidates before proposing the appointment of Karen Witts issues are to be considered.
During the year the Committee met as Group Finance Director.
In making its appointment four times.
The members of the Nomination Committee are: recommendations to the Board, the Nomination Committee Daniel Bernard Chairman reviewed the overall balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board against current and future Andrew Bonfield requirements of the Company.
Having satisfied itself that both Pascal Cagni Euan Sutherland and Philippe Tible possessed the necessary balance of skills, knowledge and experience to support the Clare Chapman relevant roles and responsibilities of a director of a UK listed Anders Dahlvig company, the Committee recommended and supported their appointment to the Kingfisher plc Board as executive directors.
Janis Kong At its meeting in June 2012, the Committee considered the Mark Seligman reappointment of Daniel Bernard for a further three-year period following the expiry of his second three-year term as a director.
Nomination Committee meeting attendance The Committee agreed that he continued to provide strong and From Attendance effective leadership to the Board and recommended he be Daniel Bernard Chairman 24 05 2006 3 of 4 reappointed for a further three-year term.
Andrew Bonfield 11 02 2010 3 of 4 Pascal Cagni 17 11 2010 4 of 4 The reappointment of Andrew Bonfield, Anders Dahlvig and Clare Chapman 02 12 2010 4 of 4 Janis Kong, following the expiry of their three-year terms of Anders Dahlvig 19 12 2009 3 of 4 appointment as directors, was also considered by the Janis Kong 08 12 2006 3 of 4 Committee at its meeting in November 2012.
The Committee Mark Seligman 01 01 2012 4 of 4 concluded that all directors continued to provide the necessary balance of skills and experience to the Board including Directors did not attend meetings where their reappointment was considered.
considerable financial and retail experience, and in-depth knowledge of the workings of the Group.
The Committee Duties therefore recommended to the Board that each be reappointed The primary purpose of the Nomination Committee is to lead, on as a director of the Company for an additional three-year term.
behalf of the Board, the process for Board appointments and to make recommendations for maintaining an appropriate balance The Committee received and reviewed a talent and HR of diversity and skills on the Board.
In accordance with its terms update from the Group HR Director, which outlined succession of reference, the Nomination Committee is required to: planning and talent pipeline considerations in support of the Groups Creating the Leader strategy.
review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board, as appropriate: Following the changes to the composition of the Board during the year, the Committee firmly believes that the current identify the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and composition represents a strong, well balanced and diverse experience on the Board and nominate candidates to fill Board.
The Board membership is made up of specialists in Board vacancies: retail, technology, finance and human resources, and possesses review the time commitment required from the considerable knowledge, experience and skills to meet the non-executive directors: current and future requirements of the Group.
The Chairman will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any consider succession planning, taking into account the questions about the work of the Committee.
challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the future skills and expertise needed on the Board: and Daniel Bernard Chairman of the Nomination Committee review the leadership needs of the organisation, both 25 March 2013 executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
com 44 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Relationship with shareholders Remuneration Committee Report Relations with shareholders The Company is committed to communicating its strategy and activities clearly to its shareholders and, to that end, maintains an active dialogue with investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
The investor relations programme includes: Full details of the Remuneration Committee composition, formal presentations of full-year and interim results: role, authority and activities during the year are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 59.
The report conference calls to discuss quarterly trading statements: will be subject to an advisory vote by shareholders at the Annual regular meetings between institutional investors and senior General Meeting on 13 June 2013. management to ensure that the investor community receives The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual a balanced and complete view of the Groups performance General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of and the issues faced by the Group: the Committee.
hosting investors and analysts sessions at which Remuneration Committee meeting attendance senior management from relevant Operating Companies From Attendance deliver presentations which provide an overview of their individual businesses: Clare Chapman Chairman 16 02 2011 4 of 4 Daniel Bernard 03 06 2009 4 of 4 responding to enquiries from shareholders through the Andrew Bonfield 17 06 2010 3 of 4 Companys investor relations team: Janis Kong 08 12 2006 4 of 4 regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discuss business performance: and a section dedicated to shareholders on the Companys website.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Boards Committees are available to meet major investors on request.
The Senior Independent Director has a specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, and for whom contact with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has either failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
As part of his formal induction as Senior Independent Director, Mark Seligman met a number of the Groups significant shareholders to obtain a better understanding of their views.
Annual General Meeting The principal means of communication with private investors is by electronic communications and through the Annual General Meeting, which is attended by all the Companys directors, and allows all shareholders present the opportunity to question the Chairman and the directors, as well as the chairmen of the Boards Committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders have the opportunity to meet informally with directors.
A summary business presentation is given at the Annual General Meeting before the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting in June 2013, the Chairman will use his discretion to call for a poll on all resolutions.
The results of the poll in relation to all resolutions will be disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting, published on the Companys website and announced to the London Stock Exchange shortly after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
