32 Corporate governance Compliance statement Board attendance 2013 Details of Board meetings held during the year and the attendance In 2013 the Company complied with all of the provisions of theUKCorporate Governance Code published in 2012 by the of directors is shown below: FinancialReporting Council which is available at www.
uk Entitled to attend Attended Board Peter Erskine 12 12 Role Richard Glynn 12 12 The Board provides strategic leadership and oversight.
It is committed Ian Bull 12 12 Sly Bailey 12 12 to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Groups 1 Christine Hodgson 12 11 operations.
Each director brings experience, independence of 1 John Jarvis 12 11 character and judgement to their role.
The independent non-executive John Kelly 12 12 directors bring a broad perspective to the deliberations of the Board.
David Martin 3 3 They support the development of the Groups strategic direction, Richard Moross 12 12 Darren Shapland 12 12 provide critical and constructive challenge to the executive directors Christopher Rodrigues 5 5 and exercise oversight through their participation in the work of the 1 Of the 12 Board meetings held during the year, eight were scheduled and four Boards principle committees on matters such as remuneration, risk were ad hoc.
John Jarvis and Christine Hodgson were unable to attend one of the and financial reporting.
Responsibility for ensuring that the Groups ad hoc meetings.
annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable isamatter for the Board as a whole.
In addition, the Chairman met during the year with the nonexecutive directors without the executive directors present.
Composition The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two executive Matters reserved for the Board directors and seven independent non-executive directors.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision and approval which includes: The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed approval of the strategic and annual profit plans, by the Board.
key announcements e. g. financial statements, The Chairman has a primary responsibility for the running of the dividends declarations, Board and for relations with shareholders.
major acquisitions and disposals, The Chief Executive is responsible for operations and for the development of strategic plans and initiatives for consideration material contracts, bythe Board.
treasury policy and other Group policies.
John Kelly acts as Senior Independent Director.
His role is to provide The section Internal control and risk management systems on a sounding board to the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary pages 33 and 34 contains further information on how the Board for the other directors when necessary.
The significant commitments of the Chairman are contained in his Board support biography on page 30.
There were no significant changes to those The Company seeks to ensure that the Board is supplied with commitments during 2013. appropriate and timely information to enable it to discharge its Diversity duties.
The Board requests additional information or variations to The Company recognises the value that diversity brings to its regular reporting as it requires.
A procedure exists for directors to boardroom and believes that the Board performs better and seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their supports its overall objectives within the business strategy when duties, if necessary.
itincludes the best people representing a range of capabilities, The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board experience and perspectives.
In line with this, the Company aims through the Chairman on all governance matters.
tofoster a diverse Board, including a mix of gender, ethnicity and backgrounds.
The report of the Nomination Committee on pages All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 36and 37 contains further information on Board composition Secretary.
All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
Acombination of tailored Board and committee agenda items andother Board activities, including briefing sessions, assist the directors in continually updating their skills and the knowledge and familiarity with the Company required to fulfil their role both on the Board and on Board committees.
In addition, external seminars, workshops and presentations are made available to directors.
TheCompany provides the necessary resources for developing andupdating directors knowledge and capabilities.
Board evaluation An annual formal Board evaluation is undertaken focusing on theperformance of the Board and of its committees and individual directors.
In 2013 the evaluation was externally facilitated by Lintstock Limited.
Lintstock has no other connection with the Company.
Theevaluation exercise used questionnaires tailored tothe requirements and specific circumstances of the Company.
Thequestionnaires were completed by each director in relation Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 33 totheir own performance and on the effectiveness of the Board Attendance at meetings of the Disclosure Committee and Finance anditscommittees.
Committee are set out in the table below: The evaluation is thematic and considers: Disclosure Committee Finance Committee Peter Erskine 9 2 Board composition, expertise and dynamics: Richard Glynn 5 22 Ian Bull 9 21 Board support and time management: Board committees: The Audit Committee has established a US sub-committee to oversee regulatory matters connected with the application for, and strategic oversight: subsequent operation of, gaming licences in Nevada.
The Committee risk management and internal control: would also have oversight of any additional licences arising from future opportunities in other US states with regulated or looking succession planning and human resources management: toregulate sports wagering or internet gaming activities.
membership of the sub-committee comprises Peter Erskine and Christine Hodgson.
The Committee has met twice during 2013 The Chairman conducts an appraisal of each director.
The Senior withboth Peter Erskine and Christine Hodgson in attendance.
Independent Director, having consulted with each of the other directors, conducts an appraisal interview with the Chairman.
In addition, the Executive Committee, Risk Committee, Investment Theresults of the evaluation were considered by the Board and Committee, and Compliance Committee referred to elsewhere are theindividual committees and actions arising were agreed.
Board committees Internal control and risk management systems The Board has five standing committees: The Board has ultimate responsibility for the internal control and risk management systems operating throughout the Group and forreviewing their effectiveness.
No such systems can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
TheGroups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate Board the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide the Board with reasonable assurance that potential problems will normally be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for appropriate action.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee The Company had procedures in place throughout the year and upto 24 February 2014, the date of approval of this Annual Report, which accord with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in October 2005.
Disclosure Finance The Board has delegated the detailed design of the systems of Committee Committee internal control and risk management to the executive directors.
Control framework The control framework and key procedures during 2013 in relation The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and to the financial reporting process were as follows: , are available on the Companys The Group operates through two primary Business Channels and websiteat www.
com investor-centre four Business Support Units: Details of the work of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee are shown on pages 35, 36 and 40 Operations respectively.
The Finance Committee meets as required to deal with all routine business excluding matters that are specifically reserved to the Board or to another committee and specific matters delegated toitby the Board requiring attention between scheduled Board meetings.
Any two directors can conduct the business of this committee.
The Disclosure Committee meets on an ad hoc basis toconsider Trading, Pricing Information and Liability and make decisions relating to the handling of inside information Technology Management concerning the Company and the Group.
Human Finance and The Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring the timely Resources Development and accurate disclosure of inside information to the market in accordance with the Companys obligations under the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and for monitoring compliance Business Support with the Companys disclosure controls and procedures.
There is an Executive Head responsible for each of these Business Channels and BusinessSupport Units.
34 Corporate governance continued Business planning outsourced to Deloitte LLP, which reports to management and the Audit Committee on Group operations.
Corporate strategy and Group-wide business objectives are reviewed annually by the Board and the Group profit plan is The Board also conducts an assessment of the effectiveness of the approved by the Board.
The Business Support Unit management internal control and risk management systems.
The assessment integrate Group-wide objectives into business strategies for takes account of all significant aspects including: risk assessment: presentation tothe Board with supporting financial objectives.
the control environment and control activities: information and Operating plans foreach Business Support Unit comprise communication: and monitoring.
financialand operating targets, capital expenditure proposals andperformance indicators and arereviewed by the Executive Anti-bribery and whistleblowing policies Committee.
The Board recognises that as a global betting and gaming business there is potential for exposure to bribery and corruption.
Failure by Reporting and oversight employees, suppliers or agents to comply with anti-bribery and The Chief Executive and the Executive Heads comprise the Executive corruption legislation including the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Committee and meet monthly to consider Group strategy, financial Corrupt Practices Act, or any failure in policies and procedures to performance, business development and management issues.
monitor and prevent non-compliance, anywhere in the world, could Other senior executives participate as appropriate.
In addition there result in substantial penalties, criminal prosecution and significant are weekly and monthly financial and operational review meetings damage to the reputation of the Company.
together with an annual programme of plan reforecasting and strategy reviews attended by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial The Board ensures that there are a number of policies, procedures, Officer together with, as appropriate, other Executive Heads management systems and internal controls in place across the and executives.
business to prevent bribery and corruption occurring.
This includes policies on whistleblowing, anti-bribery, gifts and hospitality, charitable The Board regularly receives reports from Executive Heads covering donations and sponsorship.
Supplementary audit, monitoring and areas such as operations, forecasts, business development, strategic review processes are designed to identify breaches of Group controls.
planning, human resources, legal and corporate matters, compliance, health and safety and corporate responsibility.
The whistleblowing policy enables and encourages employees to report in confidence any possible malpractice, impropriety or other Investment matters of concern which may arise in the business.
Any matters There is a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval raised in accordance with the policy are investigated thoroughly ofinvestment expenditure and asset disposals.
An Investment andreports are provided at each meeting of the Audit Committee.
Committee comprising of the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, consider all significant financial commitments, including Relations with shareholders past investment appraisals.
Major projects are reported on at There is a regular programme of meetings with major institutional eachscheduled Board meeting.
Post-investment appraisals are shareholders to consider the Groups performance and prospects.
undertaken on a systematic basis and are formally reviewed by Inaddition, presentations are made twice yearly after the theBoard twice yearly.
announcement of results, the details of which, together with the Groups financial reports and announcements, can be accessed Risk atwww.
During 2013 the Chairman met with An ongoing process is in place for identifying, evaluating and several institutional investors and their representative bodies in managing the risks faced by the Group.
Key risks and their financial addition to results presentations and the Annual General Meeting.
implications are appraised by the Executive Committee which Other directors are available to meet the Companys major isassisted by a committee of Business Support Unit executives shareholders if requested.
This is an integral part of the strategic planning process.
The appropriateness of controls is considered, The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if having regard to cost benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks theyhave concerns, where contact through the usual channels of crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks are Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer has failed to considered at each regular Board meeting and are formally solve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
reviewed and approved by the Board twice yearly.
Each key A report on investor relations, which includes updates on meetings riskisassigned executive director Executive Head ownership.
with major institutional shareholders, is given at each Board Policies and controls meeting.
The Companys brokers also present to the Board annually.
Key policies and control procedures including treasury, compliance Principles of ownership, corporate governance and voting guidelines and information system controls are documented and have Groupissued by the Companys major institutional shareholders, their wide application.
There are also operating procedure manuals that representative bodies and advisory organisations are circulated to, are integrated with Group-wide controls.
High standards of business and considered by, the Board.
ethics and compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies The Company corresponds regularly on a range of subjects with are demanded from employees at all levels.
To underpin the itsindividual shareholders who have an opportunity to question effectiveness of controls, it is Group policy to recruit and develop theBoard at the Annual General Meeting.
Further information on management and other employees of high calibre, integrity and our relations with shareholders is contained in the Shareholder withappropriate disciplines.
A system of annual self-certification information section on page 114. ofcompliance with key controls and procedures is operated throughout the Group.
The role of the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management is explained in the Audit Committee section.
The Group has an internal audit function, Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 35 monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of the Audit Committee internal audit function, including any actions taken following any significant failures in internal controls: The Audit Committee monitors and reports to the Board on the reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of engagement, the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: reviews the findings of its work, and at the end of the audit process reviewing effectiveness of the Companys internal financial control and risk its effectiveness: and management systems and internal audit function.
It oversees theCompanys relationship with the external auditor, which reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
includesassessing the auditors independence and making The external auditor reports to the Committee on the actions taken recommendations to the Board on the auditors appointment to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and with andremuneration.
best practice designed to ensure its independence.
In addition, the The members of the Committee that served during the year were: Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of external auditors for the provision of non-audit services which can be viewed Appointment date Committee role at www.
com investor-centre Darren Shapland 16 February 2010 Chairman The policy sets out controls intended to ensure that the independence John Kelly 1 September 2010 Member Christine Hodgson 1 May 2012 Member of the external auditor is not impaired and stipulates: the nature of non-audit services that are permitted to be All members of the Committee are independent non-executive performed by the external auditor: directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board at the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which consults levels of authority for management to engage the external auditor with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
for approved non-audit services: The Board has satisfied itself that the members of the Committee that any non-audit services to be provided by the external auditor have recent and relevant financial experience.
for a single project or specific services for fees in excess of 100,000 must be approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
Meetings and attendance 2013 The Committee meets as required, but not less than three times Details of non-audit services are presented to the Committee for its ayear.
Other directors, including the Chief Financial Officer, review at each meeting.
Fees for non-audit services provided by attendAudit Committee meetings.
The Committee met for private Ernst & Young LLP in the year amounted to 0.2m 2012: 0.7m.
discussions with the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, whose The Committee is satisfied that the overall level of fees for non-audit representatives attend all of its meetings, together with the internal services is not material in the context of the total fee income auditor, Deloitte LLP.
received by Ernst & Young LLP and that the provision of approved non-audit services has not compromised the independence and Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year objectivity of the external auditor.
and the attendance of Committee directors is shown below: The performance of the external auditor is reviewed by the Entitled to attend Attended Committee on an annual basis through a qualitative assessment Darren Shapland 5 5 ofthe services provided against the agreed audit plan and taking John Kelly 5 5 account of feedback received from management.
Following this Christine Hodgson 5 5 review the Committee issatisfied that the external audit process operates effectively.
Committee support The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its In October 2013 the Competition Commission announced measures duties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary who requiring all FTSE350 companies to conduct a tender for external acts as secretary to the Committee and all other employees.
The audit services every 10 years.
In advance of this, the Company Committee is able to take independent legal or professional advice reported last year that it anticipated that its external audit services when it believes it necessary to do so.
would be put out to tender during 2013.
Ernst & Young LLP and its predecessor partnerships was appointed the Companys auditor The main activities of the Committee in 2013 included: prior to flotation and no tender process had been conducted prior the critical review of the significant financial reporting issues in to2013.
connection with the preparation of the Companys financial and A rigorous tender process was conducted during the year which related formal statements, with the assistance of reports received resulted in the Committee recommending to the Board that from management and the external auditor:  LLP is appointed auditor with effect assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems established to fromthe 2014 financial year subject to shareholder approval being identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks: obtained at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
monitoring the integrity of the Companys internal financial controls.
The Committee does so by reference to: a summaries of business risks and mitigating controls: b regular reports and presentations from the heads of key risk functions, internal audit and external audit: and c the results of the system of annual self-certification of compliance with key controls and procedures: 36 Corporate governance continued Accounting and key areas of judgement The main areas considered by the Audit Committee in relation to the 2013 accounts are set out below: Matter considered Action Taxation The Audit Committee receives regular reports from management on the corporation Accounting for uncertain tax positions and the tax rate as well as the judgements exercised in arriving at the corporation tax rate, level of deferred tax asset recognition and the deferred tax recognised and disclosed.
Assumptions underlying the positions disclosure in relation to accumulated tax losses taken on significant deferred tax assets are supported by reports from other tax, are based on a series of judgements.
These advisory and legal firms.
Ernst & Young LLP also report on the tax position to judgements have an impact on the corporation tax management and the Audit Committee.
rate and recognition of deferred tax assets.
In addition to the recognition, the Audit Committee also considers the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in the Annual Report.
Accounting for acquisitions Management is required to estimate the fair value of the contingent consideration The Group has completed a number of major attheacquisition date and to estimate the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquisitions during the year resulting in the acquired, including any separate intangible assets.
Management engaged recognition of goodwill, other assets and  LLP to support thisprocess.
liabilities and estimates of the fair value The Committee has reviewed the valuation reports prepared by ofcontingent consideration, all based on a  LLP and managements accounting papers on the various number of assumptions.
The various inputs andassumptions used within these valuations considers the valuation of the assets and together with the fair value of the assetsand liabilities acquired were also reported liabilities, and challenges managements on by Ernst & Young LLP.
Carrying value of long-lived assets The carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets are tested In addition to the licences in the Retail estate, as forimpairment annually.
aresult of the aquisitions during the year and the The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and the outcome of the various significant level of investment in technology over impairment review papers presented by management.
These have also been the past three years, the Group has significant reported on by Ernst & Young LLP.
goodwill and other intangible assets which need tobe reviewed for impairment.
Exceptional items Following the acquisition of Playtech and Betdaq there have been a number The Group classifies certain items in the income ofexceptional items.
These include business integration and other transaction statement as exceptional, in order toassist users relatedcosts.
of the financial statements in understanding its The Committee has reviewed the items considered exceptional by management underlying performance.
whichhave been discussed at three of the past four Audit Committee meetings.
TheCommittee has challenged the appropriateness and classification of these items ofcosts as well asincome as exceptional.
Exceptional items have also been reported on by Ernst & Young LLP.
The members of the Committee are the Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee two or more independent non-executive directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
The Nomination Committee reviews and makes recommendations tothe Board on: the composition of the Board, taking account ofthe Meetings and attendance 2013 balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity: succession The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
planning for the directors and other senior executives: the search and Details of the number of Committee meetings held during the year nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they and the attendance of Committee directors is shown below: arise: candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director and Entitled to attend Attended formembership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, Sly Bailey 1 1 inconsultation with the Chairmen ofthose Committees: and makes Peter Erskine 2 2 recommendations to the Board concerning the directors standing John Jarvis 2 2 re-election by shareholders.
John Kelly 2 2 Christopher Rodrigues 1 1 The members of the Committee that served during the year were: Darren Shapland 1 1 Appointment date Committee role Committee support Sly Bailey 1 May 2013 Member The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake Peter Erskine 18 February 2009 Chairman itsduties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary John Jarvis 14 May 2010 Member John Kelly 15 February 2011 Member who acts as secretary to the Committee and all other employees.
1 Christopher Rodrigues 18 May 2007 Member The Committee is able to take independent legal and professional Darren Shapland 1 May 2013 Member advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
1 Christopher J Rodrigues ceased to be a Committee member on his retirement from the Board on 1 May 2013.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 37 Diversity The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report entitled The Company has a well established and published equal Womenon Boards and when considering future appointments, opportunities policy that guides all colleagues in how they fairly with the support of the Nomination Committee, will aim to build on dealwith all colleagues and customers irrespective of age, gender, its current position.
The Company currently has two women on the sexual orientation, religion, disability or ethnic origin.
That policy Board Christine Hodgson and Sly Bailey and therefore 20% of the applies on how people are selected to work at the Company and Board is made up of women.
The Companys current aspiration is to applies at all levels.
The Company has a succession policy that increase the percentage of women on the Board to 30% by 2015 ensures all key roles including director positions are considered and to continue to ensure appropriate representation by women, andthe Company considers candidates for roles from the widest both on the Board and throughout the business, whilst at all times ensuring the Company selects on merit.
The Board regularly reviews succession arrangements for all key roles and the Nomination Committee reviews succession arrangements for directors.
The Boards Strategic report includes details of wider workforce gender diversity which are shown on page 26.
Diversity on the Board Length of tenure years Executive 8-10 2 0-3 2 Non-executive 6 4-7 Male Non-executive Female Committee activities Experience of the Board During 2013 the Committee conducted a search for an additional independent non-executive director who would join the Board with the intention of acting as Chairman of the Boards Remuneration Retail 60% Committee in due course.
An initial search for candidates was conducted by JCA Group search consultants.
JCA does not have any other connection with the Company.
This initial search, whilst identifying some potential candidates, did not lead to an appointment Digital 70% being made.
Further search activities, which involved direct approaches to potential candidates rather than use of search firms and advertising, identified Mr David Martin as a candidate meeting the 90% Committees criteria.
The Committee recommended his appointment International to the Board which was effective from 31 October 2013.
Mr Martin became chair of the Remuneration Committee on 5 December 2013 taking over from John Jarvis who is due to retire from the Board at Finance 70% the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2014.
On 19 February 2014, the Committee met to consider the output of 0 20 40 60 80 100 the 2013 Board evaluation and in terms of candidates for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and the Boards composition in terms of size, experience and diversity.
The Committee concluded that each of the current directors is devoting sufficient time to their duties and responsibilities and brings relevant skills and judgement to the work of the Board.
Each of the current directors, with the exception of Mr John Jarvis, will stand for election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
