Corporate governance report Statement of Compliance Composition of the Board The Board considered that during the year ended 31 December The composition of the Board, as outlined on pages 54 and 2013, the Company was in compliance with the provisions of 55, includes an appropriate mix of the skills and experience the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Audit appropriate for the requirements of the business.
Further Committee has noted the changes to the Code, in the context information relating to appointments to the Board and the of tendering for the external audit contract every 10 years.
The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is included in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 60 to 63 outlines the Nomination Committee section of this report on page 59.
Companys intention with regard to this provision in more detail.
The Chairman, Nigel Keen, was appointed to the Board as an The UK Corporate Governance Code is available from the independent non-executive director in 1993.
Nigel Keen fulfilled Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
uk the criteria for independence as set out in the Code at the time corporate ukcgcode.
It was announced on 21 November 2013 that Nigel Keen will be retiring as Chairman at the conclusion The Role of the Board of the Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2014.
Further details are included in the Directors Report on pages 64 to 66.
The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company.
The Boards principal responsibility Paula Bell succeeded Tony Reading as the Senior Independent is to act in the best interests of the shareholders as set out in Director when he retired on 31 August 2013.
The principal the Companies Act 2006.
The Board establishes the aims and role of the Senior Independent Director is to be available to objectives for the Company, sets the strategic direction and shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved plans, and the operating budgets which are proposed by the through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive, and monitors performance against them.
The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and Operation of the Board monitoring the key risks faced by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for establishing The Board meets at least eight times a year.
A schedule of and ensuring the effectiveness of the systems of internal control meetings and principal matters to be discussed is normally set and for reviewing management performance.
Through the Chief out at least 12 months in advance.
The Board makes periodic Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary financial and visits to the Companys operations.
This year the Board visited human resources required to meet the Companys objectives.
some of the Companys facilities in Germany and Sweden.
There is a clear written division of responsibility between the Additionally, the heads of the business units and other senior Chairman and the Chief Executive, which has been agreed by executives holding functional responsibilities periodically present the Board.
The Board held nine meetings in 2013.
There were five Audit Matters reserved for the Board Committee Meetings, six Remuneration Committee Meetings There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for and seven Nomination Committee Meetings, reflecting the Board approval, including: ongoing work to refresh the Board, during the year.
Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings are given in the significant long-term obligations such as capital investments, table below, and are discussed in more detail in the separate acquisitions and divestments above certain levels: Committee sections of this report.
Whenever a director is unable the raising of new capital: and to attend a meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the Chairman prior to the meeting and is briefed by the Chairman the entering into of loan agreements.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Company to the Chief Executive.
The Board delegates certain other responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Administration Committees which are described below.
The Board determines the constitution of these Committees.
56 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
indd 56 07 03 2014 19:16 Attendance at Board meetings and committee meetings of the Board There was full attendance at all meetings in the year.
Director Board 9 Audit 5 Remuneration 6 Nomination 7 N J Keen 9 5 6 7 D C Lockwood 9 5 6 J C Silver 9 5 6 P Bell 9 5 6 7 1 J B Boyer 5 2 3 4 Sir Christopher Hum 9 5 6 7 Professor M J Kelly 9 5 6 7 2 A J Reading 4 4 4 4 1 Joined the Board 7 May 2013 2 Retired from the Board 31 August 2013 Independence The balance of skills and experience Relations between executive and non-executive directors The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, four other non-executive directors and two executive directors.
The The timeliness of information provided to the Board Code requires that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman led the evaluation process through questionnaires This requirement continues to be met.
All of the non-executive submitted to the directors for completion and one to one directors are considered by the Board to be independent discussions held with each director.
The Chairman also chooses of management and in character and judgement, and are a topic for detailed consideration each year and reviews the therefore free from any business or other relationship that could responses with each director.
The Chairman also led discussions interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
considering the Boards procedures and effectiveness.
The Normally the Chairman and the non-executive directors meet performance of individual directors was considered by the at least twice a year without the executive directors present and Chairman in discussion with other non-executive directors.
the Senior Independent Director meets at least annually with The non-executive directors considered the performance of the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Chairman considered the performance of the Re-election of directors executive directors which was also discussed with the nonexecutive directors.
Internal evaluations were also conducted All of the directors stand for annual re-election at each Annual by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, General Meeting.
Biographical details of the directors are who considered their own performance and reported to the included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and on pages Board thereon.
Further information on Board changes during the year is given in the Nomination Committee section of this report The evaluation process concluded that, in overall terms, the and in the Directors report on pages 64 to 66.
Board and its Committees had performed well and that whilst there are areas to be addressed, these are not considered an Time commitment impediment to the proper functioning of the Board.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive As reported last year, Korn Ferry, an independent third party, directors are available from the Company on request and will was appointed in 2011 to review the Boards evaluation process.
be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
They conducted individual interviews with each director and the Company Secretary to understand the workings of the Board A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed and created a Leadership Roadmap.
The Code recommends is normally set out at least 12 months in advance, enabling the that the Board evaluation should be externally facilitated at Board to assess the expected time commitment.
Furthermore, least every three years and, due to the forthcoming change the letters of appointment include an approximate estimate in Chairman, this will be done at the end of 2014. of time required per annum to cover meeting attendance, preparation for meetings and overseas visits.
The Board is satisfied that each director is able to devote sufficient time Induction and training to fulfil their duties.
New directors are provided with an induction process when they take on the role and existing directors are provided with training Board evaluation as necessary.
This can take the form of reports and briefings from external advisers and senior employees, attendance at In early 2014 the Board completed an internally managed Board seminars and conferences and bespoke training.
During the self-evaluation of itself and its Committees.
The evaluation, year the Board received updates from independent advisers on conducted annually, considered a range of factors including: changes to reporting requirements and the September 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition, as part of the Annual Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
indd 57 07 03 2014 19:16 Corporate governance report continued Performance Review, each director is asked about training needs there are any concerns which cannot be addressed through so that this can be factored into forthcoming programmes.
management, or in connection with any significant change to the Companys strategy, remuneration policy or governance arrangements.
Information and support It is important that the Board should be supplied with Wherever possible the Chairman and non-executive directors information in a timely manner, in a form and of a quality attend all results presentations and they welcome the Annual appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Minutes of General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with both meetings are circulated to the relevant Committee members private investors and institutional shareholders.
Shareholders are prior to each Board meeting.
Prior to Board meetings, all invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet directors receive Board papers which include detailed financial the directors informally after the meeting.
The Chairman gives information, a strategic report from the Chief Executive and an a formal report on the Companys progress at the meeting and operational overview from the Chief Financial Officer.
Directors a copy of his statement is issued to a regulatory information may also take independent professional advice where necessary service and published on the Companys website.
All of the at the Companys expense and have access to the services of directors attended the Annual General Meeting in 2013 and the Company Secretary.
the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees were available to answer questions relating to their areas of Communications with shareholders responsibility.
The number of proxy votes cast for, against and withheld on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and The Company is committed to increasing shareholder value and following the meeting are published on the Companys website.
ensures it communicates its prospects and achievements to shareholders in a timely manner and within the limits imposed Internal control by the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange.
Regular communication with shareholders takes place through the Laird PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with Annual Report and Accounts, the Final and Interim Results businesses primarily located overseas.
These businesses are presentation materials and other press releases of business organised as subsidiary companies where the management significance throughout the year.
Significant matters relating to of these companies are appointed to manage within the the trading or development of the business are communicated framework established by the Laird Board, as well as complying to the market by way of announcements through a regulatory with local statutory and regulatory requirements.
These announcements also appear on responsibility for Lairds systems of internal control including the Companys website, along with other press releases, financial, operational and compliance controls, and reviewing presentations, webcasts, informative videos and business their effectiveness lies with the Laird Board, which ensures that case studies.
a review is carried out at least annually to assess the adequacy of those systems.
Primary responsibility for systems of internal The Head of Investor Relations, working closely with the Chief control rests with the managers of the subsidiaries.
Laird Executive and the Chief Financial Officer on a day-to-day executive directors are responsible for implementing Group basis, has full responsibility for devising and implementing the policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of Companys investor communications plan to service its current operating companies and units and reporting to the Board and prospective shareholders and provide information to thereon.
Financial information is reviewed at business unit financial analysts.
and divisional level as well as by Lairds Finance Department which reviews the consolidation and financial statements to Written and verbal reports are presented to the Board at each ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are meeting on ongoing Investor Relations activity and reports from appropriately reflected.
the investor community are fed back on a regular basis.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing During 2013, there was continued focus on engaging with Lairds the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies institutional shareholders and private client brokers to ensure the with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the guidance Companys prospects and developments were understood and of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly to emphasise the strategic progress that has been achieved see reviewed by the Board.
This process has been in place for the full the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 53. financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board.
The systems of internal control are designed to Throughout the year, the Company participated in 90 manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve shareholder and prospective shareholder meetings in the UK business objectives as well as safeguarding the Groups assets.
and Europe, with activity mainly centred around key reporting These systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute dates, the March Full Year Results announcement, July interims assurance against material misstatement or loss.
announcement and the May and October Interim Management Statement dates.
Whilst a programme of coordinated activity Group operating rules are issued periodically to the managers is followed throughout the year, where appropriate we also of subsidiaries setting out their responsibilities and delegated respond to ad hoc requests for meetings.
These rules require approval for specific transactions the meetings were attended by a combination of the Chief and call for accurate and relevant financial information to Executive, Chief Financial Officer and or the Head of Investor be delivered on a timely basis.
The ability to identify risk is Relations.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available for meetings with shareholders in the event that 58 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
indd 58 07 03 2014 19:16 enhanced by the timely reporting of management information This process also involves an assessment of the existing skills, and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
experience, independence and knowledge on the Board.
At least annually, the Nomination Committee reviews the performance Business units submit their budgets annually to divisional of the Chief Executive.
management and to Lairds executive directors.
In addition, through a risk and controls assessment process, they are required The Nomination Committee used Korn Ferry, to assist with the to identify the key risk and control issues that their businesses Committees search for a new Chairman and non-executive face and set out the strategies they will employ to manage director, having previously appointed Korn Ferry in 2011 to assist them.
The issues raised by the business units are reviewed with the Committees work on refreshing the Board.
Apart from by the Board as part of the annual risk review process.
A risk Korn Ferrys work assisting with the recruitment of other senior management update, reporting emergent risks and any changes executives within the Group, Korn Ferry has no other connection to the risk environment, is presented at all Board meetings.
This process is supplemented by papers submitted to the Board The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings Report entitled Women on Boards and recognises the benefits from time to time between the Board and the management of of having diversity across all areas of the Group.
It is the the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the Companys aim to have the appropriate level of diversity in operating companies.
The Chief Executive presents the Groups the boardroom to reflect the diverse nature of the Companys business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the operations whilst remaining committed to ensuring that Board also addresses those risks which affect Laird as a whole.
appointments are ultimately made on merit against agreed The Board instigates further reports and investigations as it selection criteria.
Korn Ferry has undertaken to ensure that considers necessary.
at least 30% of candidates for their long list are women, Oversight of the management of risk and governance is unless they can explicitly justify why this is not the case.
This effected through the Risk and Governance Group.
The Risk undertaking supports the Committees policy of considering and Governance Group is chaired by the Chief Executive and diversity generally when making appointments to the Board, includes the Divisional Presidents, the Chief Financial Officer, taking into account relevant skills, experience, knowledge, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Human Resources Officer, the gender and ethnicity.
More information on the Companys Chief Strategy & Technology Officer, the Company Secretary gender profile is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility and the Chief Information Officer.
The Risk and Governance report on page 37.
Group, which was established at the start of the year to replace the two previous risk bodies the Risk Management Group and Appointments to the Board Risk Management Committee, met four times in 2013, including On 21 November 2013, the Company announced that Nigel an ad-hoc meeting to review risk management plans for a key Keen will be retiring as Chairman at the conclusion of the fast-track new country venture.
Meetings will be held at least Annual General Meeting, to be held on 2 May 2014, and that quarterly with additional ad-hoc meetings for specific risk issues he will be succeeded by Dr Martin Read CBE, who will become or projects as required.
Outcomes, actions and issues from all a non-executive director on 28 February 2014 to ensure a meetings are reported to the Board as part of the Operations smooth transition.
The process for selecting a new Chairman involved the Committees of the Board preparation of a detailed specification, which outlined the expected time commitment.
The selection for the new The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available Chairman was led by Paula Bell, the Senior Independent on the Companys website, from the Company on request and Director, working closely with the Chief Executive.
A shortlist will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of candidates was identified and these candidates then of each Committee reports to the Board, as appropriate, and the had individual interviews with each of the directors.
A final minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Committee Meeting attended by all Board directors was held to make a final decision recommendation to the Board.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman and at The Leadership Road Map, formulated in 2011, has helped the least two non-executive directors.
It is chaired by Nigel Keen Nomination Committee set out a strategic Board development and currently comprises Paula Bell and Sir Christopher Hum.
plan and to identify key competencies and requirements for The Nomination Committee met seven times during the year.
This plan was used as the basis for searching for Due to the focus on succession planning throughout the year, a new non-executive director to become Chairman of the particularly the importance of selecting a new Chairman, all Remuneration Committee and in May 2013 the Company of the directors attended the majority of the meetings.
announced that Jack Boyer had been appointed as a new non-executive director and that Tony Reading would be retiring The Nomination Committee has responsibility for leading the from the Board on 31 August 2013 after nine years service.
Jack process for board appointments and recommending candidates Boyer joined the Board with effect from 7 May 2013 and took to the Board.
In consultation with the Chief Executive, the over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 August Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size 2013.
In addition, it was announced that Paula Bell would and composition including the balance of skills, knowledge, succeed Tony Reading as Senior Independent Director on independence, experience and diversity required of the Board.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
indd 59 07 03 2014 19:16 Corporate governance report continued R eport of the Audit Committee Chairmans overview As a Committee we are keen to constantly evolve our focus on financial risks that face the business as operations continue to grow globally, whilst ensuring robust reporting is underpinned by appropriate and effective processes, controls and assurance.
The Committee recognises the requirement to keep primary areas of judgement under review and report accordingly and is committed to fulfilling its responsibilities in this regard.
The Committee engages with the business effectively and assesses the adequacy of the internal financial control environment.
During the year, the business has developed its financial operations with the implementation of shared service centres in Europe, North America and Asia which has further strengthened the already robust financial processes.
The Committee has reviewed the progress and delivery to plan and has also received assurance from external professional advisors.
The Committee advises the Board as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
At the beginning of each financial year, the Committee agrees the annual agenda of activities identifying key areas of focus and emerging topics.
Paula Bell Chairman of the Audit Committee 60 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
indd 60 07 03 2014 19:16 Objective Meetings To provide effective oversight and governance over the The Audit Committee, met five times during the year.
The Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of related Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial disclosures, the performance of both the internal audit function Officer, the Chief Risk Officer and the external auditor are given and the external auditor and the internal financial control notice of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak environment and the processes in place to monitor this.
The external auditor has the opportunity to meet with the Audit Committee without any executive directors present whenever necessary and the Audit Committee ensures Responsibilities that this happens at least once a year in order to discuss any The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are documented issues or concerns from either party.
Additionally, the Chairman and agreed by the Board.
The key terms are outlined below of the Audit Committee has regular contact with the external and the full terms of reference are available in the corporate audit partner outside of Committee meetings.
During the year governance section of the Companys website http: www.
the Audit Committee held two meetings with EY LLP, without laird-plc.
com laird about-laird corporate-governance boardmanagement being present, in order to receive feedback committees from them on matters such as the quality of interaction with management.
Reviewing the financial results announcements and financial statements and any significant financial reporting issues and The Audit Committee has authority to seek any information it judgements which they may contain: requires from any officer or employee of the Company or any Advising the Board on whether the Annual Report and of its subsidiary undertakings.
It believes that it has received Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and sufficient, reliable and timely information from management understandable and provide the information necessary for to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
The Audit shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business Committee can take such independent professional advice as model and strategy: it considers necessary.
Ensuring compliance with applicable accounting standards Main activities during the year and reviewing the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices in place: The Committee has assisted the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements Assessing the adequacy of the internal financial control and the assessment of internal financial control.
It has reviewed environment and the processes in place to monitor this, the effectiveness of the internal audit function and their work including reviewing the performance of the internal and has managed the relationship with the external auditor.
audit team: Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, The Committee, which comprises all non-executive directors, reviewing their performance and advising the Board on their normally meets prior to Board meetings and before half year appointment and remuneration: and full year announcements and the two Interim Management Statements.
At least twice a year the Committee receives and Ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place for individuals reviews reports from the Chief Risk Officer on internal financial to raise issues with the Board where a breach of conduct or control.
compliance, including any financial reporting irregularity, is suspected: Following the publication of the revised version of the UK Reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal Corporate Governance Code, the Board requested that the controls to guard against and detect fraud and to consider Committee advise them on whether they believe that the the Companys response to any such occurrence.
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Membership shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee members are all independent nonexecutive directors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee During 2013, the finance function has been going through is Paula Bell and the other members of the Audit Committee a major programme of change and transition from a during the year were Sir Christopher Hum, Professor Michael disaggregated model to a regional shared services model.
The Kelly, Jack Boyer and Tony Reading.
Tony Reading retired on objective for the Audit Committee has been to ensure that high 31 August 2013 and Jack Boyer became a member of the levels of assurance have been maintained during this major Audit Committee on 7 May 2013.
The Board ensures that at transition.
The Committee has been overseeing the assurance least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and process to target priorities in a new control model for the shared relevant financial experience.
Paula Bell, the Chairman of the services environment.
Committee is the Group Finance Director for John Menzies plc and Jack Boyer is a non-executive director on the Board The Committees terms of reference are available on the of Mitie Group PLC and is a member of their Audit Committee.
Companys website and sets out its responsibilities and procedures.
Furthermore, the Board is satisfied that the Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient financial, international and commercial experience to enable it to carry out its duties.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
indd 61 07 03 2014 19:16 Corporate governance report continued Financial reporting External auditor The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial Appointment and independence reporting is to review the half year and annual financial During the year, the Committee reviewed the appointment and statements.
The review is carried out with both management terms of engagement of EY LLP, the external auditor, including and the external auditor, and focus areas include evaluating the proposed fee structure.
whether: The Audit Committee has noted the changes to the Code, The annual report and financial accounts represent a fair, the recent findings of the Competition Commission and balanced and understandable view of information for the Guidance for Audit committees issued by the Financial shareholders: Reporting Council, in the context of tendering for the external Material areas of significant judgement have been given due audit contract every ten years.
EY LLP were appointed as consideration by management and reviewed with external external auditor in 1989 and their appointment has been auditors: subject to annual reviews.
Following the introduction of the audit tendering provisions in the Code, the intention is that The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and a competitive audit tender will take place in 2015 to coincide practices: with the five year rotation of the audit partner, with a view to Clarity of disclosures and compliance to financial reporting any change being implemented in 2016, following the 2015 standards and relevant financial and governance reporting audit.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the requirements: Committees recommendation to the Board of statutory auditor.
Any correspondence from regulators in relation to financial The Audit Committee has reviewed EY LLPs key policies for reporting.
maintaining objectivity and independence, including the policy for the rotation of audit partners which requires a new lead audit The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee partner to be appointed every five years.
In accordance with in relation to the 2013 Accounts, and how these were addressed, this policy, there was a change in lead audit partner in 2011. were: The Audit Committee also reviewed the policy on employment of former employees of the external auditor and confirmed it Goodwill impairment testing remained effective.
The review for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is based on cash flow projections to calculate a value in use The Audit Committee recommended to the Board the refor each division.
These projections are based on forecasts election of EY LLP as the external auditor.
which have been prepared by each division.
The achievability of the forecasts is a risk, given the inherent uncertainty within Effectiveness any financial projection.
The Committee addresses this risk The Audit Committee considers and reviews the effectiveness by reviewing the assumptions used for each division and the of the external audit on an annual basis, reporting its findings financial models used to assess value in use are reviewed as part to the Board as part of its recommendation.
This process of the audit.
is supported by the completion of questionnaires by the Committee which include consideration of the audit partner, Taxation the approach, communication and reporting.
The results of the Provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level questionnaires are reported to and discussed by the Committee.
of deferred tax asset recognition in relation to accumulated The Committee also considered the scope and planning of the tax losses are underpinned by a range of judgements.
The external financial audit and assessed the effectiveness of the Committee addresses these issues through a range of reports audit process, including a report on the audit firms own internal from the taxation department and senior management and a quality control procedures.
Additionally, the Committee received process of challenging the appropriateness of managements and reviewed the Financial Reporting Councils Annual Audit views including the degree to which these are supported by Quality Inspections Report.
After taking into account the above professional advice from external legal and other advisory firms.
factors, the Committee concluded that the external auditor This is also an area of higher audit risk and accordingly the remains effective.
Committee received detailed verbal and written reporting from EY LLP on these matters.
Non-audit services The Audit Committee recommends for Board approval a policy Exceptional items for non-audit services to be performed by the auditor.
This policy The Committee also reviewed the nature and classification of prohibits the use of the external audit firm for certain specified some costs as exceptional in the year and its compliance with matters and the hiring of its former employees, without prior the Groups accounting policy.
approval from the Audit Committee Chairman.
The auditor will not be engaged to provide Internal Audit services, systems implementations or valuations as such services would be deemed to conflict with their independence.
62 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
indd 62 07 03 2014 19:16 The ratio of fees for non-audit work to audit services was 1:1 in communications is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer with 2013.
There are often sound commercial and practical reasons, findings reported to the Board.
including confidentiality, for using EY LLP to provide non-audit services.
Non-audit fees paid to EY LLP have been falling steadily Remuneration Committee as Laird has sought to bring down non-audit fees paid to the The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Jack Boyer and external auditor and has used other providers for tax planning currently comprises the Chairman and all the other nonadvice and acquisition due diligence.
Tax compliance fees have executive directors, who are all considered to be independent.
been unusually high as EY LLP has been advising Laird over a It met six times in 2013 and is responsible for recommending number of years on a Bilateral Advanced Pricing Agreement, to the Board the Companys general policy on remuneration a major tax compliance project involving the Chinese and US and in particular to determine the remuneration and benefits tax authorities.
These fees which amounted to 0.4m in 2013 of the executive directors, the grant of all options and award of are expected to reduce significantly after 2014.
Excluding these shares under the Companys Long Term Incentive Scheme.
In fees the ratio of non-audit fees to audit was 1:0.6.
Furthermore accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration some tax compliance work, which is performed by EY LLP, will be Committee, the Chairman of the Board is not the Chairman of eliminated.
Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee, note 6 on pages 105 to 106. excluding the Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment.
Internal audit The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, when The Audit Committee oversees the internal audit function.
The requested by the Chairman of the Committee, attends a portion Audit Committee considers the scope and planning of internal of the meeting.
Normally, the Chief Executive is consulted financial audits and reviews the internal audit process for on general policy matters and matters concerning the other identifying and managing financial risk and the findings of those executive directors and employees.
Further details on the audits.
Deloitte LLP, who provide global internal audit services Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors under the direction of the Chief Risk Officer, attended one Audit Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 87.
Committee meeting during the year.
The Chief Risk Officer briefed the Audit Committee three times on key internal audit Administration Committee matters and findings of internal audit investigations and had the opportunity at each meeting to meet with the Audit Committee The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any without any executive directors present and he met separately two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and with the Chairman of the Audit Committee on six further administrative nature.
These meetings included three premeeting briefings and three interim updates.
Share capital Information on the Companys share capital is set out on page Internal financial control 64 of the Directors Report and in note 29 on page 127.
As noted above, the Audit Committee reviews the Group and Companys financial statements.
It also has responsibility for By Order of the Board reviewing the process for identifying and managing financial A M Downie risk, for reviewing the internal financial controls and considers Secretary the scope and planning of internal and external audits.
It reviews reports on internal financial control including reports by the 27 February 2014 Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and the results Registered office from internal financial audits.
As part of its audit, the external 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ auditor, to the extent it considers necessary to support its audit Registered in England No.
55513 opinion, reviews and tests the systems of internal control and the data contained in the Accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the reporting of the operating results and financial condition.
Whistleblowing The Audit Committee reviews the Companys procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers as set out in the Companys Global Code of Conduct which is on the Companys website and any whistleblowing events are brought to its attention.
A whistleblowing service, which offers a relevant language service in all countries in which Laird operates, is made available to all employees through an independent telephone and internet provider.
Employees have the right to remain anonymous.
A monthly report on any calls received is sent to senior management.
Investigation of all whistleblower Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
