52 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report 2.5 Formal reporting more widely While UK law places the shareholders in a primary position of importance, we also have a range of other important stakeholders whom we must support with a flow of information and with whom we engage when appropriate.
This is a very broad range of parties, and includes lawmakers and regulators including the UK and South African governments, through various departments, our employees and their representative trade unions, the communities who host our operations and a range of NGOs and governance commentators.
While describing the vast number of interactions that take place is beyond the scope of this report, and numerous bespoke reports are issued privately to a number of these counterparties, there are two key public documents aimed at these important audiences: The Sustainable Development Report is an online-only document, published through the Companys website, www.
This can be downloaded in pdf form, using an editing tool to extract the required pages.
A Summary Sustainable Development Report is also published, primarily in online form but with some printed copies also being distributed.
Again, these audiences are also provided with access to additional materials on our website.
2.6 The AGM The 2014 AGM will be held at 9.30 a. m. on 30 January 2014 at The Assembly Hall, Church House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the items of special business has been sent to all shareholders and is available on the Companys website.
Among the resolutions proposed are those seeking renewal of shareholders authority for the Directors to allot equity securities and an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
In addition a resolution is proposed in relation to extending the life of one of the Companys employee share schemes, the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Absent this approval, the LTIP will expire on 5 February 2014 and the Board is seeking approval to extend its duration by a further two years pending the development of a new remuneration strategy.
Further information is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 99.
Full details of all of these matters are set out in the AGM Circular.
2.7 Dividend As noted in the Chairmans Letter at the beginning of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Board is not recommending a final dividend for FY2013.
Under our dividend policy, the Board no longer declares interim dividends, and so no dividends will have been recommended or declared for that year.
The Audit & Risk Committee 3.1 The Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 57 to 64 includes a full discussion of the role, structure and composition of the Audit & Risk Committee, which acts of behalf of the full Board.
The Remuneration Committee 4.1 The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 99 includes a full discussion of the role, structure and composition of the Remuneration Committee, which acts on behalf of the full Board.
The Nomination Committee 5.1 Role of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee has delegated authority from the Board set out in its written terms of reference, available on the Companys website, which were last reviewed by the Board in November 2006.
The primary purposes of the Nomination Committee are: to ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is undertaken: to recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment process: to ensure the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above: and to oversee compliance with the Code and other applicable corporate governance regulations.
The Committee reports its material findings and recommendations at the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes of its meetings are circulated to all Directors.
5.2 Composition of the Nomination Committee All of the independent Non-executive Directors are members of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board chairs the Committee, except when the matters under consideration relate to him or succession to his role.
No individual participates in discussion or decision-making when the matter under consideration relates to them.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has full access to the CEO.
It is empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work.
