01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report Protecting shareholders interests Len Konar Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee Dear fellow shareholder The Audit & Risk Committee sits at a crossroads between management and the Companys shareholders and for this reason, comprises only independent, Non-executive Directors.
While the Committee has very specific duties set out in its terms of reference, mirroring the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, it serves a much greater purpose: that of reassuring shareholders that their interests are properly protected in respect of the Companys financial management and reporting.
There are a number of key elements to this, starting with assessing whether we have robust systems and procedures for recognising assets and liabilities whose value is recorded in our books accurately and fairly.
We must have prudent accounting policies and practices, supported by responsible exercise of judgement, so that the accounts we produce are reliable and give the true and fair view expected.
In support of all of this is a significant assurance framework, in which the internal control framework, internal audit function, external auditors and regular internal reporting against budgets, forecasts and prior year actuals all play an important part.
The Committee reviews all of these activities with the ultimate aim being that the Company should produce accounts which shareholders can expect to portray a reliable picture of the financial position of the Company, and on which they can base their investment decisions.
Like all businesses, we face risk.
For this reason, the Board requested that the Committee also oversee the Companys procedures and systems in relation to risk management, focusing on the methodology used by management.
Responsibility for the identification, assessment and management of risk remains a responsibility of the full Board.
An outline of how the Committee discharged these responsibilities is discussed in section 1.9 of this report.
The Code invites the Committee to report on the significant issues considered during the year.
Full details are contained later in the report, but from my perspective the most important were: Issues considered in relation to the financial statements there were three key areas of judgement, all of which relate to the balance sheet.
These were the carrying value of the loans made to an undertaking within the Shanduka Group, the carrying value of the Groups operational assets at Marikana and Akanani and the degree of estimation involved in the measurement of inventory quantities.
Relationship with the external auditors we are satisfied that the incumbent firm and audit partner are effective, and that they have robust processes for maintaining their objectivity and independence.
KPMG performed a material amount of work during the year, notably including acting as Reporting Accountants on the Companys Rights Issue in late 2012.
The fees for this role were considerable, but their ability to perform the role was enhanced by the firms deep knowledge of the Company and Groups business and finances.
After a competitive tendering process, another arm of KPMG also won work advising on a restructuring.
Again, the fees were material but the Committee is satisfied that their appointment was appropriate.
Having reflected on this with the Senior Statutory Auditor, I and the Committee are satisfied that these additional roles and fees did not compromise their objectivity and independence.
