42 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report Acting in shareholders interests Roger Phillimore Chairman Letter from Roger Phillimore Dear fellow shareholder I have chosen to introduce the reporting on our corporate governance arrangements this year so that I can emphasise their importance, and explain how these function for the benefit of the Company and its shareholders.
A board of directors should add value in many ways most obviously through establishing the moral tone of the company, and then through the decisions taken.
In this regard the thinking which goes into designing its composition and balance, in defining its remit and in planning the processes to ensure that it focuses effectively on the key issues are of paramount importance.
In essence, a board comprising the right directors must consider the right issues at the right time, when in possession of all necessary information.
To achieve this requires deliberate planning and sustained effort over a prolonged period.
As an English-incorporated company with its primary listing in London, Lonmin is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code encourages me to report personally on how its principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied, and I am pleased to do so.
We choose to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance as we believe these should help to facilitate the success of the Company and sustain this over time.
An important distinction is that management, led by the CEO, is responsible for running the business while the Board, acting under my leadership, runs the Company and provides the constructive challenge to management necessary to create accountability and drive performance.
Our effectiveness in doing this should make a material difference in terms of the creation and preservation of value for shareholders, and to the benefit of other stakeholders.
Board composition is therefore of enormous importance and there are three critical dimensions: the balance of skills and experience: maintaining a strong level of independence and objectivity: and ensuring that all members have sufficient knowledge of the Company and the context in which we operate.
As we act in shareholders interests, it is right that shareholders have the opportunity to vote on the re-election of every Director on an annual basis.
As I committed a year ago, during 2013 we have undertaken an  review of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
This has been a searching process managed by Sheena Crane, an experienced independent practitioner who has no other connection to Lonmin, under my direction.
A fuller description of the process is set out in section 1.6 of this report, together with the focus areas for the new year resulting from the review.
We will tackle these challenges with rigour and urgency in the months ahead.
The remainder of this report contains the narrative reporting variously required by the Code, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure & Transparency Rules, including the role and work of the Nomination Committee.
I hope you find this an informative and helpful discussion of an important topic.
Yours faithfully Roger Phillimore Chairman
