32 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Community Relations Community Value Proposition THROUGH THE COMMUNITY VALUE PROPOSITION, LONMIN WANTS TO ENSURE IT IS WORKING ON THE CORRECT PROJECTS AND PITCHING THEM AT A SUSTAINABLE LEVEL, SO THAT THE COMPANY CAN LEAVE A LASTING LEGACY IN THE COMMUNITIES AROUND ITS OPERATIONS.
New Social and Labour Plan In addition, we will be targeting measures to create The original Western Platinum Limited WPL and capacity within the local municipalities as well as local Eastern Platinum Limited EPL SLPs that were and major labour sending communities to sustain approved by the DMR expired in December 2012. improvements realised through our investments.
These plans entailed a number of key initiatives that Key priority areas will include: Lonmin committed to deliver as part of its social Community education value chain school license to operate.
Lonmin is required to submit new infrastructure, learner support and teacher five year SLPs and arrangements are at an advanced Community Value development as well as community skills Proposition stage to finalise these documents for implementation see p 164 for programmes: and more information in 2014.
Community health health infrastructure, HIV AIDS and health promotion programmes.
Improvement of Living Conditions The pressing need to improve living conditions 2013 Project Highlights: necessitates increased investment in the development of basic social infrastructure.
This investment includes Community Health contributions towards: The Community HIV AIDS programme continued with 136 active volunteers, supporting 1,528 Bulk water infrastructure to enable access to home based care clients and 1,258 orphans and portable water and sanitation facilities: vulnerable children: Road infrastructure involves construction of new Community food centres provided meals to access roads and improvement of existing roads: 415 orphaned and vulnerable children: Waste removal this involves continuation of the Completed the building of a new clinic in GLC waste management programme and Hwelereng, Limpopo: and identification of potential downstream recycling opportunities: The building of additional staff accommodation facilities at the Bapong Community Health Centre Improvement of public safety through increasing were completed in this year.
the limited street lighting across all GLC villages: and Enterprise Development Increased local recruitment through the community We successfully launched the enterprise development mining related skills programme targeting entry incubator in partnership with the Shanduka Black level mining jobs.
Long-Term Investments Economic, Education and Community Development The above measures will be supplemented by Key project highlights for our local economic long-term investments aligned with our vision of development can be found in A Deeper Look on Empowered, Sustainable Communities beyond page 164. mining.
Long-term investments will facilitate reduction in high levels of unemployment, significantly improve the education system local schools, increase access to health services and maintain sustainable access to basic social services.
