Governance Other safeguards AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation policy based on best practice and professional standards in the United Kingdom.
The standard period for rotation of the ENSURING INDEPENDENCE OF THE audit engagement partner is five years and, for any key audit EXTERNAL AUDITORS partner, seven years.
The audit engagement partner was Anglo Americans policy on auditors independence is appointed in 2010 in accordance with this requirement.
consistent with the ethical standards published by the Audit Any partner designated as a key audit partner of Practices Board.
AngloAmerican shall not be employed by Anglo American in a key management position unless a period of at least A key factor that may impair auditors independence is a lack two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last of control over non-audit services provided by the external relevant audit.
In essence, the external auditors independence is deemed to be impaired if the auditors provide a service that: The external auditors are required to assess periodically, whether in their professional judgement, they are results in the auditors acting as a manager or employee independent of the Group.
of the Group The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the puts the auditors in the role of advocate for the Group auditors work is sufficient and that the auditors are creates a mutuality of interest between the auditors and fairly remunerated.
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for Anglo American addresses this issue through three primary making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, measures, namely: re-appointment and removal of the external auditors disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services The Audit Committee has the authority to engage independent counsel and other advisers as they determine the prohibition of selected services this includes the necessary in order to resolve issues on auditors undertaking of internal audit services independence.
prior approval by the Audit Committee chairman of An annual assessment is undertaken of the auditors non-audit services where the cost of the proposed effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
The assignment is likely to exceed $50,000.
effectiveness assessment involves a review, with the senior Anglo Americans policy on the provision of non-audit finance managers in each of the business units and relevant services is regularly reviewed.
The definition of prohibited corporate functions, of the audit process, including the non-audit services corresponds with the European planning, execution and reporting activities along with an Commissions recommendations on auditors assessment of the quality, quantity and leadership of each independence and with the Ethical Standards issued of the external audit teams involved in the audit.
Any by the Audit Practices Board in the UK.
improvement opportunities identified are discussed with the external auditors.
The independence and objectivity assessment is conducted by a review of compliance with the policies in place in the Group and within the external auditors to maintain independence and objectivity.
The results of the review are shared with the Audit Committee.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 111 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Conclusions of the Audit Committee for 2013 Audit Tender The Committee has satisfied itself that the UK professional Anglo American recognises the current requirements and regulatory requirements for audit partner rotation and of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and employment of former employees of the external auditors transitional guidance in relation to audit tendering, and have been complied with.
also notes the proposed European Union text on Audit Regulation and Directive and the UK Competition The Committee considered information pertaining to the Commission response to conduct further consultation balance between fees for audit and non-audit work for the on auditor tendering.
Group in 2013 and concluded that the nature and extent of the non-audit fees do not present a threat to the external In light of these ongoing discussions, the significant auditors independence.
Details of fees paid are provided organisational, systems and process change currently on page 198. being undertaken in the business and the critical priorities for management in delivering a step change in operating Furthermore, after reviewing a report from the external performance, the Committee has agreed to recommend auditors on all their relationships with Anglo American that to the Board that we follow the current transitional guidance might reasonably have a bearing on the external auditors of the Code and do not tender during the current audit independence and a review conducted by management, partners rotational period.
The Audit Committee will the Committee has concluded that the external auditors reconsider the timing of audit tendering once the broader independence was not impaired.
The Committee held meetings with the external auditors Audit Committee actions in 2014 without the presence of management on two occasions and In addition to its role in monitoring the integrity of the the chairman of the Audit Committee held regular meetings financial statements, the Committee will seek assurance with the audit engagement partner during the year.
that the internal controls over trading activity are operating Consideration given to the appointment of the as intended, the internal control environment remains external auditors effective through the restructuring programme and that the The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external risks associated with the Minas-Rio project as it progresses auditors incumbents since the listing of Anglo American into its operational phase are understood and managed.
in 1999 is kept under annual review and, if satisfactory, Byron Grote will be appointed as chairman of the Audit the Committee will recommend the re-appointment of the Committee to replace David Challen who retires as a audit firm.
non-executive director at the forthcoming AGM.
The appointment of Deloitte LLP followed a detailed evaluation, at the time of the listing of predecessor audit firms.
The Committees assessment of the external auditors performance and independence underpins its recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors until the conclusion of the AGM in 2014.
Resolutions to authorise the Board to re-appoint and determine the remuneration of Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the AGM on 24April2014.
112 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance The role of internal audit Obtaining assurance on the internal The Group has an internal audit department that reports control environment centrally with responsibility for reviewing and providing The system of internal control, which is embedded in all assurance on the adequacy of the internal control key operations, provides reasonable rather than absolute environment across all of Anglo Americans operations.
assurance that the Groups business objectives will be achieved within the risk tolerance levels defined by the The head of internal audit is responsible for reporting Board.
Regular management reporting, which provides and following up on the findings of this internal audit work a balanced assessment of key risks and controls, is an with local management and the Audit Committee on a important component of board assurance.
certain board committees focus on specific risks such as Internal audit teams operated in all the Groups principal safety and capital investment and provide assurance to the divisions in the period under review, reporting findings to Board.
The chief financial officers of the Groups business local senior management.
The internal audit functions units provide confirmation, on a six-monthly basis, that mandate and annual audit coverage plans have been financial and accounting control frameworks have operated approved by the Audit Committee.
The Board also receives assurance from the Audit Committee, which derives its information, in part, from The internal audit activities are performed by teams of regular internal audit reports on risk and internal control appropriate, qualified and experienced employees, throughout the Group, and external audit reporting.
supplemented if necessary through the engagement of external practitioners upon specified and agreed terms.
The Groups internal audit function has a formal A summary of audit results and risk management collaboration process in place with the external auditors information was presented to the Committee and Group to ensure efficient coverage of internal controls.
The senior management at regular intervals throughout the Anglo American internal audit function is responsible for year.
The Groups head of internal audit reports to the providing independent assurance to executive management Audit Committee on the internal audit functions and the Board on the effectiveness of the risk-management performance against the agreed internal audit plan.
During 2013, 780 audit projects were completed covering Anglo American seeks to have a sound system of internal a variety of financial, operational, strategic and compliancecontrol, based on the Groups policies and guidelines, related business processes across all business units and in all material associates and joint ventures.
In addition, the internal audit department companies that are independently managed, as well as responded to a number of management requests to joint ventures, the directors who are represented on these investigate alleged breaches of our business principles.
organisations boards seek assurance that significant risks During 2013 the internal audit resources in fide Beers are being managed.
were integrated into the Anglo American team and have Assurance regarding the accuracy and reliability of Mineral adopted a consistent approach to internal audit work.
Resources and Ore Reserves disclosure is provided through a combination of internal technically proficient staff and independent third parties.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 113 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Whistle-blowing programme During 2013, 372 2012: 332 reports were received via The Group has had a whistle-blowing programme in place the global Speak Up facility, including fide Beers, covering for a number of years in all its managed operations.
a broad spectrum of concerns, including: This facility operates in addition to a standardised Groupethical wide stakeholder complaints and grievance procedure criminal that is operated at all managed operations see the 2013 supplier relationships Sustainable Development Report for more details.
The whistle-blowing programme, which is monitored by the health and safety Audit Committee, is designed to enable employees, HR issues.
customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, on a confidential basis, to raise concerns in cases where conduct Reports received were kept strictly confidential and were is deemed to be contrary to our values.
It may include: referred to appropriate line managers within the Group for resolution.
Where appropriate, action was taken to address actions that may result in danger to the health and or safety the issues raised.
The reports are analysed and monitored of people or damage to the environment to ensure the process is effective.
unethical practice in accounting, internal accounting During 2014 Anglo American expects to consolidate all controls, financial reporting and auditing matters whistle-blowing services with one service provider across criminal offences, including money laundering, fraud, all business units and functions.
bribery and corruption failure to comply with any legal obligation miscarriage of justice any conduct contrary to the ethical principles embraced in our business principles or any similar policy any other legal or ethical concern concealment of any of the above.
The programme makes available a selection of telephonic, email, web-based and surface mail communication channels to any person in the world who has information about unethical practice in Anglo American and its managed operations.
The multilingual communication facilities are operated by independent service providers who remove all indications from information received as to the identity of the callers before submission to designated persons in the Group.
114 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Risk management at Anglo American The results of these risk assessments were reported to The Boards policy on risk management encompasses senior management and the Audit Committee.
The process all significant business risks to the Group, including: of risk management is designed to identify internal and external threats to the business and to assist management financial risk in prioritising their response to those risks.
Continuous operational, including safety, technical, fraud monitoring of risk and control processes, across headline and corruption risk risk areas and other business-specific risk areas, provides the basis for regular and exception reporting to business compliance risk management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
that could undermine the achievement of business Some of the headline risk areas, which have been objectives.
This system of risk management is designed elaborated upon in the financial review set out on pages so that the different businesses are able to tailor and adapt 4653, are: their risk-management processes to suit their specific circumstances.
This flexible approach has the commitment commodity price risk of the Groups senior management.
political, legal and regulatory risk There is clear accountability for risk management, which currency risk is a key performance area of line managers through the Group.
The requisite risk and control capability is assured infrastructure and operational performance risks through Board challenge and appropriate management safety and health risks.
Managers are supported The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed in giving effect to their risk responsibilities through policies to provide the Board with a consistent, Group-wide and guidelines on risk and control management.
Support perspective of the key risks.
The reports to the Audit through facilitated risk assessments is provided by a Committee, which are submitted at least every six months, central team responsible for ensuring a robust process is include an assessment of the likelihood and impact of risks implemented for risk-management.
During 2013, more materialising, as well as risk-mitigation initiatives and their than 160 separate risk assessment workshops were effectiveness.
The Audit and Safety and Sustainable conducted reviewing: Development committees will also receive reports on risk in business unit strategies those risks that are deemed to be potentially catastrophic and will review mitigation and status of controls in relation risks to achieving mine or business plans to those risks.
Further discussion of such risks is provided risks in capital projects onpages 4653. risks to key change programmes.
For more information on risk See page 4653 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 115 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk Business integrity management, the Board considers the key findings from the During 2013 we continued to implement the necessary ongoing monitoring and reporting processes, management procedures to ensure that our Business Integrity policy assertions and independent assurance reports.
The Board operates effectively across the Group and minimises the also takes account of material changes and trends in the risk risk of bribery as far as possible.
We have now trained more profile and considers whether the control system, including than 7,000 managers through workshops in the business reporting, adequately supports the Board in achieving its units and developed supplementary online training.
the year we developed enhanced guidelines regarding use of intermediaries and sponsorship.
We updated our During the course of the year the Board considered the assessment of the risks of bribery and corruption in each Groups responsiveness to changes within its business of our businesses, taking into consideration external and environment.
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing internal factors and identified action plans for process, which has been operational during the year, and up implementation based on those risk assessments.
to the date of approval of the Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the During 2014 we will continue to develop our procedures Group.
This includes social, environmental and ethical risks and obtain assurance that they are being implemented, as highlighted in the Disclosure Guidelines on Socially aswe expect, across the Group.
Responsible Investment issued by the Association of British Insurers.
A detailed report on social, environmental and ethical issues is included in the Companys Sustainable Development Report 2013.
116 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Committee discussions in 2013 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE In February, the Committee: reviewed executive director personal key performance indicators for 2013 and Company financial and safety Sir Philip Hampton targets to ensure alignment with Company strategy Chairman, Remuneration Committee discussed the outgoing CEOs and finance directors performance in 2012 to adjudicate on bonus outcomes reviewed executive directors shareholdings in the Company prior to 2013 share awards being made reviewed the forecast vesting of 2010 Bonus Share Plan BSP and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards reviewed the 2012 Directors remuneration report ahead Composition of publication.
Compliant with the Code: In April, the Committee: Sir Philip Hampton chairman confirmed the vesting of 2010 BSP and LTIP awards David Challen and the granting of 2013 BSP and LTIP awards Sir CK Chow confirmed the one-off share award to the incoming CEO Byron Grote in respect of forgone incentives Ray ORourke Jack Thompson reviewed and approved the proposal for asset optimisation and supply chain targets for the 2013 LTIP award discussed investor feedback on executive remuneration The role of the Remuneration Committee remains prior to the vote on the Directors remuneration report to ensure that the remuneration arrangements for discussed a number of proposals relating to a redesign executive directors offer every encouragement to of executive incentive arrangements.
enhance the Companys performance and deliver In July, the Committee: our strategyin a responsible manner.
discussed the final proposed design of executive Sir Philip Hampton incentive arrangements ahead of the shareholder Chairman, Remuneration Committee consultation process formally reviewed the incoming CEOs personal key Role and responsibilities performance indicators for 2013 Establishing and developing the Groups reviewed corporate governance issues in the previous general policy on executive and senior management quarter and major issues arising from the main AGM remuneration.
voting season Determining specific remuneration packages reviewed the Company chairmans fee.
for the chairman and executive directors.
In December, the Committee: Designing the Companys share incentive schemes.
reviewed directors salaries, taking into account the general salary review for the broader employee population considered GMC remuneration elements and performance contracts for 2014 discussed the feedback received during the shareholder consultation over changes to the structure of executive pay discussed a draft of the Directors remuneration report for 2013 reviewed and updated its terms of reference determined the correct treatment of the LTIP TSR comparator group, following changes in the composition of the group during the year reviewed corporate governance issues that had arisen since the previous meeting.
The remuneration report of the directors is set out on pages 118143.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 117 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 1.
I NTRODUCTORY LETTER The role of the Companys Remuneration Dear Shareholder, Committee remains to ensure that the It has been a year of change for Anglo American.
We have a new chief executive and an updated strategy and have remuneration arrangements for executive refined the remuneration arrangements for our executive directors offer every encouragement to enhance directors as a consequence.
In this respect we are setting out these policy decisions for you, our shareholders, who for the Companys performance and deliver our the first time have a binding vote on them.
The role of the Companys Remuneration Committee remains to ensure that the remuneration arrangements for executive directors and other members of the Group Sir Philip Hampton Chairman of the Management Committee offer them every encouragement Remuneration Committee to enhance the Companys performance and deliver our strategy in a responsible manner.
We also need to ensure that the rewards received by the executive directors are proportionate to the levels of performance achieved and the returns received by you as shareholders.
As a Committee, we therefore have to give full consideration to the Companys strategy, its performance, your interests and the interests of the wider communities we affect.
IN THIS SECTION Following the appointment of Mark Cutifani as chief executive, a comprehensive review of the Companys 118 Introductory letter strategy was conducted, as explained in the opening pages 120 Policy on director remuneration of this years annual report.
The Committee has therefore reviewed the incentive arrangements for our most senior 129 Director remuneration in2013 executives to ensure these remain aligned with the revised 137 Outstanding share interests strategy.
In addition, the Committee has been mindful of general investor calls for greater simplicity, higher 140 Remuneration in 2014 shareholding requirements and longer time-horizons for 140 Termination arrangements incentive awards.
The Committee therefore consulted with leading investors over a number of proposed changes 141 Remuneration Committee in 2013 to our remuneration arrangements.
The Committee refined 142 Five-year remuneration and returns these in response to investor feedback and believes that the changes set out opposite are appropriate.
118 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance In addition, an updated set of BSP rules will be presented to Key changes shareholders for approval at the 2014 AGM, as the current rules expire on 21 April 2014.
Bonus Share Plan BSP The fee levels for committee chairmen and the senior Structure: the removal of the share matching aspect independent director increased with effect from 1January Enhancement Shares from the BSP arrangements 2014, as explained in Section 5. and the introduction of a five year deferral period for a portion of bonus.
As the chief executive reported in his introduction to this years Annual Report, although 2013 was another year of Maximum award: an increase in the maximum potential difficult macro-economic conditions and challenges, the award level for executive directors from 175% of salary to Company has put in place steps to improve returns to 210% to maintain the expected value of their BSP shareholders by increasing its focus on capital deployment arrangements following the removal of Enhancement and operating performance, with some of the benefits Shares.
coming through in the second half of the year.
These are Effective date: as there will be no award of Enhancement reflected in the remuneration received by executive Awards in 2014 in respect of bonus deferred from 2013, directors in 2013.
Specifically: the Committee determined that the 2013 BSP maximum underlying earnings were ahead of the targets set at the for the current executive directors should be 210% of start of the year.
However, the Committee, together salary with payment partially deferred for five years.
with the Chief Executive, felt that, in light of the fact that Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP meaningful impairments were being taken again this year, Performance measures: replacement of the Asset it would be appropriate to make a reduction in the bonuses Optimisation and Supply Chain measure 50% of award of executives which would otherwise have been payable.
with an attributable Return on Capital Employed ROCE A reduction of 30% in the quantum of these bonuses has measure to reflect the Boards commitment to a rigorous thus been applied approach to capital allocation.
the relatively low level of earnings over the last three years Performance measures: replacement of the bespoke means that, of the Enhancement Shares initially awarded mining peer group for the relative TSR sector measure in 2011, none vested at the end of 2013, as the required 25% of award with the HSBC Global Mining Index to three year earnings growth was not achieved overcome increasing difficulty in building a bespoke peer the results of the Companys longer-term efficiency group: a decrease in the threshold vesting level for both programmes mean that around a quarter of the LTIP the sector and FTSE 100 TSR measures from 30% to awards initially granted to executive directors in 2011 25%: and a change in the TSR performance period for are likely to vest.
The remainder will not vest as the full each TSR measure to align with the Companys financial value of these savings has yet to be returned to you, as year rather than the announcement of results.
shareholders, in the form of superior TSR.
Holding period: introduction of an additional two Finally, in last years report we set out the terms of year holding period for vested LTIP awards to MarkCutifanis remuneration package as chief executive, increase alignment.
including compensation for the incentives he forfeited in Effective date: to apply to 2014 LTIP awards onwards leaving his former role.
The value of, and final details about, except for the change in the TSR performance period this compensation are set out in Figure 12.
Likewise in last which applies to 2013 LTIP awards onwards.
years report we set out the broad terms of Cynthia Carrolls termination arrangements.
Further details are disclosed in Clawback strengthening Figure 12 and in Section 6.
The circumstances under which the Committee could, in future, reduce unvested awards, vested awards subject to a deferral or holding period or future awards have been strengthened to include misconduct and a material failing in risk management processes that has given, or could Sir Philip Hampton potentially give, rise to significant and lasting value Remuneration Committee Chairman destruction for the Company.
Shareholding guideline increases Increased from 200% of salary to 300% for the chief executive and from 150% of salary to 200% for the finance director, with effect from the 2014 AGM.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 119 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT intends that these policies should apply until the Companys 2.
POLICY ON DIRECTOR REMUNERATION 2017 Annual General Meeting, subject to any unforeseen 2.1 Remuneration policy developments.
It is the Committees intention that Figures 1 and 2 summarise key aspects of the Companys commitments entered into before these policies take formal remuneration policy for executive and non-executive effect and which are inconsistent with them should be met, directors.
This policy and the policy on termination set out as explained further below.
in Figure 4 take effect for the purposes of S226D of the Figure 1 reflects the changes outlined in Sir Philip Companies Act on approval by shareholders at the Annual Hamptons introductory letter.
General Meeting to be held on 24 April 2014.
The Company has been operating these policies since 1 January 2014 and Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation Basic salary To recruit and Standard maximum increase Basic salary levels are reviewed annually by the Committee, retain high-calibre 5% of salary taking account of Company performance, individual executives performance, levels of increase for the broader UK the Committee retains the discretion population and inflation to exceed this in certain situations as explained under Operation Reference may also be made to median levels within relevant FTSE 50 and global extractive companies The Committee also considers the impact of any basic salary increase on the total remuneration package Annual increases are typically within the standard maximum given However, there may be occasions when the Committee needs to recognise, for example, development in role, change in responsibility and or specific retention issues.
In these circumstances, the Committee may offer a higher annual increase, the rationale for which will be explained to shareholders in the relevant remuneration report Maximum levels will be reviewed to take account of any significant rise in inflation levels Salary levels on recruitment and promotion to the Board are covered below Bonus Share To encourage and Maximum threshold Each year executive directors participate in the BSP which Plan BSP reward delivery of 210% of salary 0% of salary rewards EPS and individual performance the Companys Performance measures The EPS measure has been chosen as it is one of the strategic priorities At least 50% underlying earnings per Companys key measures of performance.
As EPS To help ensure, share EPS performance in our sector can be highly volatile owing to through the external factors, the individual objectives measure was Up to 50% individual objectives linked share-based chosen to provide a balance, reflecting managements to the Companys strategic priorities elements, that underlying activity towards delivering the companys any resulting A deduction to the above is applied if strategy regardless of volatility performance is safety targets are not met The EPS targets are set each year to ensure they are sustained over the Form and timing of payment demanding yet realistic.
They primarily reflect internal budgets longer-term in line 40%: cash award at end of year and price expectations for the year.
Consideration is also given with shareholder to prior performance and external expectations.
The individual interests 40%: Bonus Shares vesting three years objectives are based on the Companys strategic priorities for after end of bonus year the year 20%: Bonus Shares as above but Dividends are payable on Bonus Shares during any subject to a further two year deferral deferral period period The Committee is able to reduce any unvested Bonus Share awards, vested awards subject to a deferral period or future awards in the event of a material misstatement in the Companys results or, for 2014 awards onwards, misconduct or a material failing in risk management processes that has given, or is likely to give, rise to significant and lasting value destruction for the Company 120 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation Bonus Share Discretions Plan BSP Given the volatility mentioned above, the Committee does continued not intend to make adjustments to BSP outcomes to reflect either positive or negative short-term fluctuations in EPS performance driven by external factors such as commodity prices.
It reserves the discretion to make adjustments to outcomes in very exceptional circumstances whether related to internal or external factors for example, on a sequestration of assets during the year.
Shareholders will be given details of any adjustments in the following remuneration report Under the BSP Rules, the Company also has the standard discretion to take appropriate action in the event of unforeseen events which affect the Bonus Shares for example, on a variation in share capital and to settle the Bonus Shares in cash for example, on a termination Long-Term To encourage Maximum award The Committee makes an annual conditional award of Incentive Plan and reward 350% of salary shares to each executive director LTIP disciplined capital Performance measures The ROCE measure has been selected to reflect the allocation and the 50%: Attributable Return on Capital strategic focus on disciplined capital allocation and the generation of Employed ROCE TSR measures to reflect the extent to which value is being long-term delivered to shareholders sustainable 50%: Total shareholder returns TSR shareholder relative to sector and leading UK Each year, the Committee reviews the performance targets returns comparator companies prior to grant to ensure they remain sufficiently stretching.
The initial ROCE targets have been informed by the Performance period Companys stated 2016 attributable ROCE aspiration and Three years each year will be set with reference to current budgets.
The Additional holding period relative TSR targets are set such that only a quarter of the Two years award is payable for median performance whilst maximum vesting requires exceptional relative performance Vesting at threshold ROCE: 25% of award portion Dividend equivalents are paid on any shares that vest TSR: 25% of award portion The Committee is able to reduce any unvested awards, vested awards subject to a holding period or future grants inthe event of a material misstatement in the Companys results or, for 2014 awards onwards, misconduct or a material failing in risk management processes that has given, or is likely to give, rise to significant and lasting value destruction for theCompany Discretions As is the case for the BSP, the Committee does not intend to make adjustments to LTIP outcomes to reflect either positive or negative short-term fluctuations in performance driven by external factors such as commodity prices.
It reserves the discretion to make adjustments to outcomes in very exceptional circumstances whether related to internal or external factors for example, on a sequestration of assets.
Shareholders will be given details of any adjustments in the following remuneration report Under the LTIP Rules, the Company also has the standard discretion to take appropriate action in the event of unforeseen events during an award cycle for example, on a variation in share capital Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 121 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation Outstanding To allow vesting 2012 & 2013 BSP Enhancement It is the Committees intention that these outstanding awards BSP and LTIP of awards made Share awards should be paid out according to the terms on grant awards under a previously Maximum award: Further details are contained in the remuneration report for approved policy 65.6% of salary the year of grant and will be contained in the remuneration report for the final year of the performance period Performance measure: Real EPS growth Performance period: Three years 2012 & 2013 LTIP awards Maximum award and performance terms As for LTIP above, except subject to an Asset Optimisation Supply Chain AOSC measure instead of a ROCE measure Pension To offer market- 30% of basic salary Executive directors participate in defined contribution competitive levels pension arrangements ofbenefit Prior to 6 April 2011, executive directors had the option of all or part of their employer-funded defined contribution arrangements to be paid into an unregistered retirement benefits scheme an EFRBS.
Since 6 April 2011, executive directors have the option for contributions which cannot be paid to a UK registered pension scheme as a result of HMRC limits either annual allowance or lifetime allowance to be treated as if paid to an unregistered unfunded retirement benefit scheme an UURBS The Committee is prepared to consider requests from executive directors for a pension allowance to be paid in place of defined contribution arrangements Other benefits To provide Ongoing benefit maximum The Company provides the following ongoing benefits: market- 10% of salary 28 days leave and encashment of any accumulated leave competitive Exceptional situations in excess of 20 days benefits The Committee reserves the discretion car-related benefits to exceed the ongoing maximum level medical insurance for certain situation-specific benefits, death and disability insurance such as relocation.
Full details of the limited personal taxation and financial advice exercise of any such discretion will be club membership provided to shareholders in the other ancillary benefits, including attendance at following remuneration report relevant public events.
In addition, the Company pays additional benefits when specific business circumstances require it, including costs and allowances related to relocation and international assignments UK-based executive directors, as UK employees, are eligible to participate in the Companys Save As You Earn SAYE scheme and Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Under HMRC rules these plans do not have performance conditions The Company reimburses all reasonable and necessary business expenses 122 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation Recruitment To secure the Maximum annual award The ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly and promotion appointment and for ongoing arrangements recruited or promoted executive director will reflect the arrangements promotion of remuneration policy in place for executive directors at the BSP: 210% of salary high-calibre time of the appointment.
The ongoing components will executives LTIP: 350% of salary therefore comprise basic salary, BSP awards, LTIP awards, benefits, pension and SAYE SIP on the bases set out above The initial basic salary level for a newly recruited or promoted executive director will be set to reflect the individuals experience, salary levels within the Company and market levels.
Where base salary is set below the level that might be expected, given the executives relative inexperience, and the executive then develops successfully into the role, the Committee has the discretion to give a salary increase in the year s after appointment above the standard maximum level of 5% For external appointments, the Committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based elements to replace any remuneration forfeited, when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The terms of any share-based elements offered will reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements of remuneration forfeited and will have performance conditions attached.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
The Company has retained its Discretionary Option Plan to use in such circumstances, if appropriate.
If necessary the Company can go outside of existing plans as currently permitted under the Listing Rules It is the Committees intention that the restricted awards granted to Mark Cutifani on appointment will be released in accordance with the terms on grant.
These awards were made under the approved policy at the time, as disclosed in the 2012 Report For internal appointments, any commitments made before appointment and not relating to appointment are allowed to pay out according to their terms For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 123 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Figure 2: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for non-executive directors Purpose Maximum opportunity Operation Chairman To attract and retain a Maximum increase The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities Fees high-calibre chairman Equivalent to annual increase The level of this fee is reviewed every two to three years by by offering a marketof 5% of fee level the Committee and chief executive, with reference to UK competitive fee level market levels FTSE 30 companies, and a recommendation is then made to the Board in the absence of the Chairman Fees are paid in cash with the flexibility to forgo all or part of the net fees to acquire shares in the Company It is the Committees intention that the shares granted to the Chairman in 2011, which he committed to match with his personal funds, will be released in accordance with the terms on grant Chairman To provide marketMaximum benefits Reasonable use of a car and driver Benefits competitive benefits 30,000 Medical insurance Reimbursement of reasonable and necessary expenses NonTo attract and retain Maximum increase The non-executives are paid a basic fee.
The chairmen of executive high-calibre nonfor each type of fee the main board committees and the senior independent directors executive directors by Equivalent to annual increase director are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra Fees offering marketof 5% of fee level responsibilities competitive fees These fee levels are reviewed every few years by the Chairman and executive directors, with reference to UK market levels, and a recommendation is then made to the Board Fees are paid in cash with the flexibility to forgo all or part of the net fees to acquire shares in the Company Reimbursement of reasonable and necessary expenses Other fees To have the flexibility to Maximum additional fee The Company has the discretion to pay an additional fee, payments provide additional fees 30,000 up to the equivalent of the committee chairmanship fee benefits if required currently 30,000, to a non-executive director should the Company require significant additional time commitment from the non-executive director in exceptional or unforeseen circumstances The Company has no current intention to use this discretion 124 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 2.2 Su pplementary information Policy in rest of company Shareholding targets The remuneration arrangements for the executive Within five years of appointment, executive directors are directors outlined in Figure 1 are consistent with those expected to hold Company shares with a value of three for other executives serving on the Group Management times basic salary for the chief executive and two times Committee, although opportunity levels vary.
The majority basic salary for other executive directors.
The Committee of our employees are located in South Africa and South takes into consideration achievement against these targets America, and the remuneration arrangements of these when making grants under the Companys various employees are aligned to local market practices and levels.
Past directors External directorships In addition to retirement benefits, the Company continues Executive directors are not permitted to hold external to provide seven former executive directors with private directorships or offices without the prior approval of the medical insurance arrangements.
The annual cost to the Board.
If approved, they may each retain the fees payable Company is minimal.
The Committee continues to meet from only one such appointment.
these longstanding commitments but no new commitments have been made recently or will be made in future.
Executive director contractual commitments The remuneration provisions within the service contracts for Mark Cutifani and Ren Mdori are consistent with the policies outlined in Figure 1 and in Figure 4 termination provisions.
Figure 3: Executive director total remuneration at different levels of performance Chief Executive Above 8.6 m Target 6.2 m Below 1.7 m Finance Director Above 5.1m Target 3.7 m Below 1.1m Indicative total pay m 0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 Basic salary, benets and pension Above BSP cash and deferred The Companys three-year TSR would need to outperform sector peers LTIP by 6% pa and be ranked 20th or higher in the FTSE 100.
Target The Companys three-year TSR would need to outperform sector peers by 3.2% pa and be ranked 35th in the FTSE 100.
Below Total pay for below threshold performance includes basic salary, benets and pension only.
1 Estimates of 75,000 and 35,000 have been used for ongoing non-pension benefits for the chief executive and finance director respectively.
2 Share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded from all figures.
3 Participation in the SAYE and SIP has been excluded given the relative size of the opportunity levels.
4 Total pay for above target performance comprises basic salary, benefits, pension, 100% of maximum bonus opportunity 60% of which is deferred into Bonus Shares and 100% of maximum LTIP opportunity.
For this level of pay, the Companys attributable ROCE would need to be 16% and the Companys three-year TSR would need to outperform sector peers by 6% pa and be ranked 20th or higher against the FTSE 100.
5 Total pay for target performance comprises basic salary, benefits, pension, 65% of maximum bonus opportunity 60% of which is deferred into Bonus Shares and 65% of maximum LTIP opportunity.
For this level of pay, the Companys attributable ROCE would need to be 14.1% and the Companys three-year TSR would need to outperform sector peers by 3.2% pa and be ranked 35th against the FTSE 100.
6 Total pay for below threshold performance comprises basic salary, benefits and pension only.
7 Charts have not been included for the non-executive directors as their fees are fixed and do not vary with performance.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 125 Performance Level Performance Level GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2.3 Indicative total remuneration levels the average bonus percentage paid over the last three The Companys policy for executive directors results years and prorated based on the time employed during the in a significant portion of the remuneration received bonus year.
The Committee intends, if required, to meet this by executive directors being dependent on Company obligation but does not intend to include such a clause in performance.
Figure 3 illustrates how the total pay any future service agreements.
opportunities for the current chief executive and the finance Figure 5 sets out key provisions relating to change of control, director vary under three different performance scenarios: where there is no termination.
There are no provisions for above, target and below.
These charts are indicative as enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of share price movement and dividend accrual have been the Company.
All assumptions made are noted below the charts.
2 Non-executive directors 2.4 Policy on termination and change in control All non-executive directors have letters of appointment 2.4.
1 Executive directors with the Company for an initial period of three years, subject Figure 4 sets out the Companys policy on termination.
This to annual re-appointment at the AGM.
The Chairmans policy is consistent with provisions relating to termination of appointment may be terminated by the Company with six employment in the executive directors service agreements months notice.
The appointment letters for the Chairman and with provisions in the incentive plan rules with one and non-executive directors provide that no compensation exception.
Ren Mdoris service agreement contains a is payable on termination, other than any accrued fees longstanding provision under which the Company may pay a and expenses.
lump sum in lieu of any notice period, comprising salary, bonus and pension contributions in respect of the unexpired notice period, with the bonus element calculated based on Figure 4: Principles of determining payments for loss of office Notice periods Notice periods do not exceed 12 months Upon appointment the Committee can agree an extended Company notice period for the first year following appointment Good Leaver Voluntary Resignation Bad Leaver Payments on Typical reasons include retirement, redundancy, death, Typically departure of ill-health, injury, disability or as defined by the Committee termination executive for cause Where departure is on mutually agreed terms, the directors Committee may treat the departing executive as a Good Leaver in terms of one or more elements of remuneration.
The Committee uses this discretion judiciously and shareholders will be notified of any exercise as soon as reasonable Salary and Salary and benefits continue to be paid to the date of Salary and benefits continue to be Immediate benefits for termination of employment, including any notice period paid to the date of termination of termination with notice period and or garden leave period employment, including any notice no notice period period and or garden leave period The Company may terminate employment with immediate effect and, in lieu of the unexpired portion of any 12-month The Company may terminate notice period, make a series of monthly payments based on employment with immediate effect salary and benefits or make a lump sum payment based on and, in lieu of the unexpired portion of salary only.
Any monthly payments will be reduced to take any 12-month notice period, make a account of any salary received from alternative employment series of monthly payments based on salary and benefits or make a lump sum payment based on salary only.
Any monthly payments will be reduced to take account of any amounts received from alternative employment Bonus accrued A time pro-rated bonus award may be made by the No accrued bonus is payable No accrued prior to Company, with the Committees approval, and can be bonus is payable termination paid wholly in cash 126 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Figure 4: Principles of determining payments for loss of office Good Leaver Voluntary Resignation Bad Leaver Unvested Bonus Normal circumstances Forfeit Forfeit Shares and Bonus Shares are released in full on the normal Enhancement release date ie awards will not be released early Shares Enhancement Shares vest subject to the performance condition at the end of the normal performance period and any award is time pro-rated.
Exceptional circumstances eg death or other compassionate grounds Bonus Shares are released in full, and eligible for immediate release.
Enhancement Shares vest subject to testing of the performance condition at the date of departure and any award is time pro-rated, except on death Vested Bonus Normal circumstances If an employee resigns to join a Forfeit Shares subject Released in full to the employee at the end of the competitor as defined by the to holding period holding period.
Committee then even those vested Bonus Shares that remain subject only Exceptional circumstances to the holding period will be forfeit eg death or other compassionate grounds Outside of these circumstances, such Bonus Shares are released in full, and eligible for awards are released to the employee immediate release at the end of the holding period Unvested LTIP Normal circumstances Forfeit Forfeit awards LTIP awards will vest subject to the performance condition at the end of the normal performance period and, if applicable, released at the end of the holding period All awards are time pro-rated Exceptional circumstances eg death or other compassionate grounds LTIP awards may be released on departure, subject to assessment of the performance conditions at that time.
All awards are time prorated Vested LTIP Normal circumstances If an employee resigns to join a Forfeit awards subject Vested LTIP awards that are subject only to a holding competitor as defined by the to a holding period are released in full to the employee at the end Committee then even those vested period of the holding period LTIP awards that remain subject only to the holding period will be forfeit Exceptional circumstances eg death or other compassionate grounds Outside of these circumstances, such awards are released to the employee Vested LTIP awards subject to a holding period may be at the end of the holding period released on departure Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 127 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Figure 4: Principles of determining payments for loss of office Good Leaver Voluntary Resignation Bad Leaver Unvested There is no standard policy in respect of the treatment of any Generally Forfeit Forfeit Restricted restricted share awards to executive directors.
Terms are set Shares on a case by case basis For the restricted shares currently held by the chief executive, if he leaves as a Good Leaver before the designated release dates, any unvested shares would be released on the earlier of the remaining release dates or one year from the date of the chief executive ceasing to be the Companys chief executive Other Limited disbursements for example, legal costs, relocation None None costs, untaken holiday Figure 5: Policy on change in control Incentive plan Bonus Shares and Enhancement Shares provisions relating The Bonus Shares awarded under the BSP will be released to change of The Enhancement Shares awarded under the BSP will only vest to the extent that the performance condition has been control without met at the time of the change of control termination LTIP awards The number of shares that vest under the LTIP will be calculated by reference to the extent to which the applicable performance conditions have been met at the time of the change of control Vested Bonus Shares and LTIP awards subject to holding period The Bonus Shares and LTIP awards will be released 2.5 Development of directorremuneration policy each year the Committee also reviews in detail how In developing and reviewing the Companys remuneration the arrangements for the executive directors compare policy for executive directors and other senior executives, to those for other members of the Group Management the Committee is receptive to the views of shareholders and Committee to ensure an appropriate relationship and to sensitive to the relationship between the arrangements for support career development and succession.
executive directors and those for other employee groups.
Given the geographic spread of the Companys workforce, Specifically: the Committee does not consider that consulting with employees on the remuneration policy for directors is a whenever any significant changes are made to viable use of resources.
Many of the Companys UK-based remuneration, the Committee seeks feedback from employees are shareholders, through the SAYE and SIP investors.
The Committee also listens to and takes into schemes, and they, like other shareholders, are able to consideration investor views throughout the year.
For express their views on director remuneration at each example, the changes described in the Committee general meeting.
Chairmans introductory letter reflect, in part, recent investor concerns and the Company consulted 2.6 Payments under previous policies with its leading investors on these changes before The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration finalising them payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the the Committee considers the general basic salary terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy or the increase for the broader UK employee population when relevant legislation came into effect or ii at a time when the determining the annual salary increases for the executive relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, directors.
The rate of basic salary increase for the chief in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in executive and the finance director, at 0% of salary for 2013 consideration for the individual becoming a director of the and 3% for 2014, has been lower than in 2013 and the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the same as in 2014 the general increase for the UK satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation employee population to awards of shares, the terms of the payment which are agreed at the time the award is granted.
128 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 3.
DIRECTOR REMUNERATION IN 2013 The information set out in this section has been subject to external audit.
3.1 Basic salary for 2013 Figure 6: Basic salaries for 2013 Mark Cutifani was appointed chief executive with effect all amounts in 000 from 3 April 2013.
His annual salary level on appointment was 1,200,000.
Figure 6 sets out the amount actually MARK CUTIFANI received in 2013.
2012: not applicable Ren Mdori received no salary increase in 2013.
891 REN MDORI 2012: 765 765 3.2 Annual BSP outcomes for 2013 Figure 7: BSP outcomes for 2013 Figure 7 shows the BSP outcomes for 2013.
Figures 8a and cash bonus and Bonus Shares 8b summarise the annual financial and personal strategic all amounts in 000 measures for the 2013 BSP for Mark Cutifani and Ren Mdori, along with the performance targets, where relevant, MARK CUTIFANI the level of performance achieved and the resulting award 2012: not applicable levels.
Key details of the performance delivered over 2013 are set out under BSP Key Performance Aspects.
The EPS performance range for 2013 was relatively wide 1,218 threshold $1.25, target $1.58 and maximum $2.05.
This range was informed by the Companys commodity price REN MDORI forecasts at the start of the year.
At the time, the Committee 2012: 469 acknowledged that analysts EPS projections were towards the higher end of the range but these projections were lowered once analysts were in receipt of similar information 979 as the Committee were when setting the targets.
The individual objectives were set at the start of the year and reflect the Companys strategic priorities for the year.
Each category contained between one and five specific objectives.
Some of these are reflected under BSP Key Performance Aspects.
Given the non-financial nature of these, specific quantitative targets were not set but, at the end of the year, the Committee made a detailed assessment of performance against each leading to the evaluations shown in Figures 8a and 8b.
The overall outcome for each executive director was then adjusted by the safety deductor based on loss of life, Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate and a risk and change management rating.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 129 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Figure 8a: BSP performance assessment for 2013 Chief Executive Mark Cutifani Threshold Target Maximum $1.25 0% $1.58 20% $2.05 50% Corporate Financial 50% of award Below of award of award Above of award Earnings per Share Personal Strategic 50% of award Below Threshold Target Above Maximum Strategy 25% Stakeholder engagement 10% Business performance and project execution 15% Overall personal performance Group safety performance deductor Overall performance before discretionary reduction Overall performance after discretionary reduction Resulting BSP award 65.1% of maximum bonus award 137% of salary 40% payable in cash, 60% as Bonus Shares BSP KEY PERFORMANCE ASPECTS Review and update of capital allocation process, Strong year on year production performance across with consequent withdrawal from the Pebble project.
all businesses, except Sishen: notably Copper 17%, Metallurgical Coal 6% and Diamonds 12%.
Significant progress made with regard to organisational restructure.
Minas-Rio 84% complete, on track to ship first iron ore by end of 2014.
Formation of Commercial business, merger of Nickel, Niobium and Phosphates and creation of Base Metals Real unit costs down across all businesses except structure: merger of Thermal and Metallurgical Coal Sishen, with increased production, cost savings at into a single Coal business unit underway.
Metallurgical Coal and Platinum and decreasing commodity input costs, partially offset by labour and Continued progress achieved in the drive for safety logistics costs increases, notably in South Africa.
improvement reductions in lost-time and total injury rates.
Engagement with South African stakeholders and subsequent implementation of Platinum restructuring.
130 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Figure 8b: BSP performance assessment for 2013 Finance Director Ren Mdori Threshold Target Maximum $1.25 0% $1.58 20% $2.05 50% Corporate Financial 50% of award Below of award of award Above of award Earnings per Share Personal Strategic 50% of award Below Threshold Target Above Maximum Strategy and Portfolio Restructuring 13% Treasury 6% Tax 8% Procurement 6% Information Management 4% Finance Function operational targets 4% Teamwork and project support 9% Overall personal performance Group safety performance deductor Overall performance before discretionary reduction Overall performance after discretionary reduction Resulting BSP award 60.9% of maximum bonus award 128% of salary 40% payable in cash, 60% as Bonus Shares BSP KEY PERFORMANCE ASPECTS Strong year on year production performance across Review and update of capital allocation process, all businesses, except Sishen: notably Copper 17%, with consequent withdrawal from the Pebble project.
Significant decrease in Study Costs driven by lower Minas-Rio 84% complete, on track to ship first iron ore feasibility study expenses.
Issuance of corporate bonds with a US$ equivalent value Real unit costs down across all businesses except of $3.6 billion in the European and Australian markets Sishen, with increased production, cost savings at increasing debt headroom and extending maturity.
Metallurgical Coal and Platinum and decreasing Divestment of Amap completed in November 2013. commodity input costs, partially offset by labour and logistics costs increases, notably in South Africa.
Formation of Lafarge Tarmac joint venture and successful completion of the fide Beers integration.
Continued progress achieved in the drive for safety improvement reductions in lost-time and total Strong progress made in the Supply Chain programme injury rates.
which drives sustained business improvement.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 131 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 3.3 BSP Enhancement Figure 10: LTIP assessment for 2013 Share outcomes for 2013 In 2011, Ren Mdori was awarded 17,737 Enhancement For more details on the measures Go to section 4.2 Shares under the BSP.
Vesting was subject to the Companys real EPS growth over the three-year period SECTOR INDEX COMPARISON to 31 December 2013.
The growth targets set on award 25% OF TOTAL AWARD were RPI 9% for threshold performance resulting in 44% of the award vesting and RPI 15% for maximum The Sector Index measure compares the Companys performance resulting in 100% of award vesting.
three-year TSR performance with the weighted Threshold performance was not achieved over the median of six international mining companies.
three-year period resulting in no vesting of the shares.
Vesting required the Companys TSR performance to be at least equal to the weighted median.
As at 31 December 2013, the Companys TSR Figure 9: Enhancement Share vesting performance was below the weighted median: it is outcomes for 2013 therefore not expected that any shares will vest for all amounts in 000 this part of the award.
REN MDORI 2012: 0 0 FTSE 100 COMPARISON 25% OF TOTAL AWARD The FTSE 100 measure compares the Companys 3.4 Long-Term Incentive three-year TSR performance with the constituents Plan outcomes for 2013 of the FTSE 100.
In 2011, Ren Mdori received an LTIP grant of 69,021 Vesting required the Companys TSR performance conditional shares vesting subject to a the Companys TSR to be at least equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100. performance relative to i a weighted group of international mining companies and ii FTSE 100 companies over the As at 31 December 2013, the Companys TSR three-year period to announcement of the 2013 results, and performance was ranked below the 50th percentile of b the level of savings delivered by the Asset Optimisation the FTSE 100: it is therefore expected that no shares and Supply Chain programmes to 31 December 2013. for this part of the award will vest.
Figure 10 sets out further details of the measures and the Companys expected performance against each.
Figure 11 sets out the assumed outcome for Ren Mdori, including accrued dividend equivalents.
As the performance period for the TSR measures ends immediately after the date of AOSC 50% OF TOTAL AWARD this report on the announcement of the 2013 results, The AOSC measure rewards the delivery of additional performance and vesting in respect of the TSR measures operating profit and capital expenditure savings is based on the latest available information as at delivered through the Companys Asset Optimisation 31December 2013. and Supply Chain programmes.
Minimum vesting required cumulative savings to 31December 2013 of just over $7.9bn and maximum vesting required cumulative savings of $9.66bn.
Actual performance was $8.9bn, leading to 56% vesting of this part of the award 28% of the overall award.
132 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Figure 11: LTIP vesting outcomes for 2013 Figure 10: LTIP assessment for 2013 all amounts in 000 REN MDORI 2012: 510 SECTOR INDEX COMPARISON 3-year TSR performance 25% OF TOTAL AWARD against Sector Index % per annum The Sector Index measure compares the Companys 25% 301 three-year TSR performance with the weighted median of six international mining companies.
LTIP KEY PERFORMANCE ASPECTS As at 31 December 2013, the Companys TSR During 2013, the Company undertook an extensive 7.5% performance was below the weighted median: it is asset review process, focused on identifying potential therefore not expected that any shares will vest for operational improvements, which will, among other this part of the award.
benefits, assist in delivering AOSC benefits across 0% all businesses.
Threshold: 0% pa Max: 5% pa Specific AO highlights include improvements in Vesting schedule and actual performance to 31 December 2013 Longwall cutting hours at Moranbah and Grasstree Arrow represents expected vesting Met Coal, increased average throughput at Los Bronces SAG Mill Copper, increased life of furnace parts at Mogalakwena North Platinum and improved FTSE 100 COMPARISON 3-year TSR ranking vs FTSE 100 index carat recovery at Snap Lake fide Beers.
25% OF TOTAL AWARD 25% Specific SC highlights include increased rail capacity The FTSE 100 measure compares the Companys and reduced rail rates in Kumba and Met Coal, three-year TSR performance with the constituents more effective drill consumables at Kumba and of the FTSE 100. improvements in supplier maintenance processes at Thermal Coal.
Vesting required the Companys TSR performance to be at least equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100.
Improved relationships with suppliers have reduced 7.5% both the lead time for major equipment delivery and As at 31 December 2013, the Companys TSR the supply risk to our business.
performance was ranked below the 50th percentile of the FTSE 100: it is therefore expected that no shares 0% Framework agreements are now in place with 44 of for this part of the award will vest.
Threshold: 50th Max: 80th our key suppliers, representing a formal alignment in Vesting schedule and actual performance to 31 December 2013 our commercial relationships.
Arrow represents expected vesting Should the 2011 LTIP awards vest at 28%, 19,325 shares are receivable by Ren Mdori.
At a share price of 14.12 the average for the last quarter of 2013, this results in a value of 272,869. Dividend equivalents Anglo Americans AOSC efficiency AOSC 50% OF TOTAL AWARD $ bn over the vesting period will also be payable at vesting, The AOSC measure rewards the delivery of additional estimated to be 28,218.
50% operating profit and capital expenditure savings delivered through the Companys Asset Optimisation and Supply Chain programmes.
Minimum vesting required cumulative savings to 28% 31December 2013 of just over $7.9bn and maximum vesting required cumulative savings of $9.66bn.
Actual performance was $8.9bn, leading to 56% vesting of this part of the award 28% of the 0% overall award.
Min: $7.9 bn $8.9 bn Max: $9.66 bn Vesting schedule and actual performance Arrow represents actual vesting Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 133 Vesting % of total LTIP award Vesting % of total LTIP award Vesting % of total LTIP award GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Figure 12: Total remuneration outcomes for 2013 Annual performance bonus cash 2011 2011 Total basic Benefits and Bonus Enhancement LTIP Total Total 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 salary inkind Pension Shares Share Award Award Other 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Section 3.1 Section 3.2 Section 3.3 Section 3.4 Mark Cutifani 891 860 267 1,218 2,069 5,305 Ren Mdori 765 53 230 979 0 301 0 2,328 Ren Mdori 2012 765 50 230 469 0 510 0 2,024 Former Executive Directors 8 Cynthia Carroll 406 25 122 472 0 434 0 1,459 Cynthia Carroll 2012 1,217 65 365 745 0 811 0 3,203 Benefits Total Total Total fees inkind Other 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 Non-Executive Directors 9 10 Sir John Parker 675 2 677 1,241 David Challen 130 130 130 Sir CK Chow 80 80 80 Byron Grote 56 56 Sir Philip Hampton 105 105 105 Phuthuma Nhleko 80 80 80 10 Ray ORourke 80 80 80 Mphu Ramatlapeng 38 38 Jim Rutherford 13 13 Anne Stevens 80 80 51 Jack Thompson 97 97 80 Peter Woicke 32 32 105 134 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 1 In addition to the basic salaries above, Ren Mdori and Cynthia Carroll each retained fees amounting to 66,000 and 37,000 respectively in respect of external directorships see Section 2.2.
2 Benefits for executive directors with a value over 5,000 are set out below.
The executive directors also receive a limited amount of financial advice, club subscriptions, death and disability benefits and medical insurance and other ancillary benefits.
In addition, in 2013, Mark Cutifani received benefits relating to his relocation from South Africa to London on appointment as chief executive.
These included reimbursement of relocation agent costs, moving costs, temporary accommodation costs, indirect costs of purchasing a home in London and a relocation allowance.
As Mark Cutifani will be liable for tax on these benefits, the Company, in line with normal practice, will reimburse MarkCutifani for the tax paid except on the relocation allowance.
The tax-related amounts involved will be disclosed in subsequent reports.
Car-related Club Untaken holiday benefits membership reimbursement Relocation Mark Cutifani 20,788 835,931 Ren Mdori 27,310 19,136 Cynthia Carroll 9,330 7,673 3 The pension contribution amounts should be read in conjunction with the following information: a The amount stated for Mark Cutifani for 2013 includes a cash allowance of 202,000. b The total amount of pension contributions treated as having been paid into the UURBS for 2013 was 218,000 for Cynthia Carroll 2012: 677,000 and 221,000 for Ren Mdori 2012: 190,000.
This includes 96,000 2012: 362,000 representing the contractual agreements made by Cynthia Carroll with the Company that supplementary contributions be treated as having been paid into the UURBS in return for a reduction in her future basic salary and the cash element payable under the BSP for performance in 2012 and 2011. c Contributions treated as being paid into the UURBS earn a return equivalent to the Companys pre-tax sterling nominal cost of debt.
The total return earned in 2013 was 48,000 for Cynthia Carroll 2012: 32,000 and 45,000 for Ren Mdori 2012: 33,000. d As at 31 December 2013, the total balances due to the executive directors in relation to the UURBS were 644,000 for Cynthia Carroll 2012: 1,021,000 and 1,034,000 for Ren Mdori 2012: 768,000.
Retirement benefits can only be drawn from the UURBS if a member has attained age 55 and has left Group service.
Cynthia Carrolls 2012 amounts have been restated due to her US tax status.
4 60% of the amount shown for 2013 annual bonus will be paid in Bonus Shares with deferred receipt.
For 40%, vesting will occur after a further three years, subject to continued employment: for 20%, there is a further two year holding period in addition to the three year vesting period.
5 The performance condition attached to the 2011 Enhancement Share award was not met and no shares will vest.
6 As vesting of the LTIP awards granted in 2011 is due to take place after publication of this report, vesting levels are on an expected basis and a share price of 14.12 has been used to calculate the values shown.
The values shown include dividend equivalent amounts of 40,705 for Cynthia Carroll and 28,218 for Ren Mdori.
The LTIP amounts shown in last years report in respect of the LTIPs awarded in 2010 were also calculated on an expected vesting levels basis with an assumed share price of 18.32.
The actual vesting levels were as expected but the actual share price at vesting was 18.52 leading to the following increases in value: Cynthia Carroll estimated value 802,000, actual value 811,000 increase of 9,000 : Ren Mdori estimated value 504,000, actual value 510,000 increase of 6,000.
7 The amount stated for Mark Cutifani relates to the value on grant of the restricted shares awarded to him as compensation for the incentives forfeited on leaving his previous employer AngloGold Ashanti.
On 1 May 2013 132,208 restricted shares in the Company were awarded to him with a share price on grant of 15.65.
Although the regulations require disclosure of the full value of grant in Figure 12, the shares will be released to him in the following tranches to reflect the vesting schedule of the foregone incentives: February 2014 51, 680 shares: May 2014 9,983 shares: February 2015 67,475 shares and February 2016 3, 070 shares.
The Committee has the discretion to reduce the number of shares being released in the event of a material misstatement of results.
The Committee determined that there should be no performance conditions attaching to these awards, other than service, as the compensation amount calculated in respect of the forfeited awards had already been discounted for performance.
8 Cynthia Carroll ceased to be chief executive on 3 April 2013, stepped down as a director on 19 April 2013 and ceased to be employed by the Company on 30 April 2013.
The salary, benefits, pension, and bonus amounts shown for Cynthia Carroll relate to the period from 1 January 2013 to 30 April 2013.
Amounts have been included for the period for 19 April to 30 April 2013, although Cynthia Carroll was not a director at the time, as the amounts earned related to her completing activities linked to her time as a director.
CynthiaCarrolls maximum bonus opportunity for the period 1 January to 30 April 2013 was 710,000 175% of her pro-rated salary, with 50% based on EPS performance and 50% on individual objectives subject to a deductor for safety performance.
The EPS performance targets are detailed under Section 3.3.
EPS performance was at maximum resulting in a provisional award of 50% of the total award.
Cynthia Carrolls personal objectives related to a smooth and effective handover, responsible stewardship of the business and specific operational matters.
The Committee assessed her performance against these to be above target, resulting in a provisional award of 48% of the total award.
A safety deductor of 3% was then applied to the combined EPS and personal outcomes, leading to a provisional total award of 95%.
The reduction by the Committee resulted in a final amount of 66.5% of the total award being payable 472,000.
In 2011 Cynthia Carroll was awarded 28,816 Enhancement Shares, none of which vested, as set out in Section 3.3.
In 2011 Cynthia Carroll received an LTIP grant of 128,008 shares relating to performance primarily over the three-year period to 31 December 2013.
Full details of the performance measures and targets attaching to the grant are set out in Section 3.4, along with details of performance delivered and vesting levels.
Ms Carrolls award was pro-rated to 99,561 shares as she did not serve the last eight months of the performance period.
If the award vests at 28%, 27,877 shares are receivable by Ms Carroll.
9 Following his appointment as chairman of the Company on 1 August 2009, Sir John Parker was awarded 31,000 shares which were released in full on 2 August 2012, three years after appointment, with a share price of 19.00.
The award was matched through share purchases by Sir John before the release date.
10 Sir John Parker has waived his Nomination Committee Chairman fees.
Ray ORourke has instructed the Company that his net fees be donated to charity.
11 Other than in respect of Cynthia Carroll, no payment has been made to a past director of the Company.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 135 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 3.5 Change in the chief executives remuneration 3.6 Distribution statement for2013 in 2013 relative to London employees Figure 14 sets out the total spend on employee reward Figure 13 sets out the chief executives base salary, over 2013, compared to profit generated by the Company benefits and BSP amounts for 2013.
As the chief executive and the dividends received by investors.
was appointed during the year, no year on year change can be reported.
We show the average change in each element for London employees, the most relevant employee comparator group.
Figure 13: Change in chief executives remuneration compared to UK employees Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Executive 000 891 860 1,218 % change 1 London employees Average % change 2.8 2.8 28.3 per capita 1 Benefits for London employees comprise pension and car allowances where applicable, these being the most material.
Figure 14: Distribution statement for 2013 1 Distribution statement 2013 2012 Underlying Earnings $m 2,673 2,860 Total Group % change 6.5 % 54 % Dividends payable foryear Total $m 1,084 1,083 % change 0.1% 20.6% Payroll costs for all employees $m 5,255 5,374 % change 2.2 % 8.6% Employee numbers 000 98 105 % change 6.7 % 6% 1 Figures for 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.
Please see note 2 of the consolidated financial statements for details.
136 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance The constituent companies of the Sector Index for the 4.
O UTSTANDING SHARE INTERESTS 2013 awards are shown in Figure 16.
The information in this section has been subject to The Committee may amend the list of comparator external audit.
companies in the Sector Index, and relative weightings, 4.1 Conditional share awards granted in 2013 if circumstances make this necessary for example, as a Figure 15 summarises the longer-term, conditional share result of takeovers or mergers of comparator companies awards granted to directors during 2013.
Receipt of these or significant changes in the composition of the Group.
awards is dependent on the Companys performance over The threshold for vesting is the Companys three-year TSR 201315, as detailed below.
being equal to the weighted median TSR performance of 4.2 Further details of LTIP awards granted in 2013 the Sector Index.
1 TSR Sector Index comparison Maximum vesting occurs when the Companys TSR One quarter of the LTIP awards granted in 2013 vests outperforms the weighted median TSR of the Sector Index according to the Companys three-year TSR performance by 5% pa. relative to a weighted basket of international mining companies the Sector Index.
Between threshold and maximum, vesting is based on a straight line.
Figure 15: Summary of conditional share awards granted in 2013 Performance Performance Number of Face value 2 Type of award measure Vesting schedule period end Director Basis of award sharesawarded atgrant BSP EPS growth 44% for RPI 9% 31 12 2015 Ren Mdori 75% of 2012 8,808 175,807 Enhancement 100% for RPI 15% Bonus Shares 1 Shares LTIP share TSR vs. 30% for TSR 31 12 2015 Mark Cutifani 350% of salary 244, 328 4,199,998 awards sector index equal to median 25% 100% for median 5% pa orabove Section 4.2.
1 TSR vs. 30% for TSR Ren Mdori 300% of salary 117,218 2,296,300 FTSE100 equal tomedian index 25% 100% for 80th percentile orabove Section 4.2.
3 1 The BSP Enhancement Shares were awarded in March 2013.
The number of shares granted was 75% of the number of deferred Bonus Shares awarded to Ren Mdori in respect of 2012 annual performance Ren Mdori: 11,744 Bonus Shares.
The value of the Bonus Share award was 50% of the total bonus earned for 2012.
2 The face value of each award has been calculated using the share price at time of grant 19.96 for the Enhancement Share awards and 19.59 for Ren Mdoris LTIP awards and 17.19 for Mark Cutifanis LTIP awards.
As receipt of these awards is conditional on performance, the actual value of these awards may be 0.
Vesting outcomes will be disclosed in the 2015 report.
Figure 16: 2013 TSR Sector Index Mining Comparator companies BHP Billiton plc Rio Tinto plc Teck Resources Limited Vale Vedanta Resources plc 1 Xstrata GlencoreXstrata 1 The Committee has determined that Xstratas performance will be measured to the date of merger and GlencoreXstratas performance from that date to the end of the performance period.
It noted that there was no bid premium to be taken into account.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 137 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 4.2.
3 Asset Optimisation and Supply Chain One quarter of the LTIP awards granted in 2013 vests Vesting of one half of LTIP awards granted in 2013 according to the Companys three-year TSR performance depends on the performance of the Companys compared with the TSR performance of the constituents strategic Asset Optimisation and Supply Chain of the FTSE 100 Index.
AOSC programmes over the three-year period to 31December 2015.
Threshold vesting occurs when the Companys three-year TSR is equal to the median TSR of the FTSE 100 These programmes strive to unlock value from the constituents.
Companys assets in a sustainable way through structured Group-wide programmes aimed at reducing Maximum vesting occurs when the Companys TSR is costs, increasing volumes and improving overall equal to or exceeds the TSR of the FTSE 100 company operational efficiencies.
whose TSR performance is ranked at the 80th percentile.
The AOSC performance targets represent the operating Between target and maximum, vesting is based on a profit improvements, capital expenditure savings and straight line basis.
working capital savings that the programme is yielding, compared with the savings made if the programme had The performance targets for both TSR measures were not been implemented.
These savings are realised calculated so that there is approximately a 15% chance of cumulatively over the three-year performance period.
achieving full vesting and a 25% chance of three-quarters For 2011 LTIP awards onwards, the effect of changes in vesting.
These probabilities were assessed by PwC using both commodity prices and exchange rates have been aMonte Carlo model.
stripped out of the AOSC targets and results so that only Total shareholder return for both the TSR measures is directly attributable management actions are recognised.
calculated based on average returns over the three months 4.3 Total interests in shares prior to the end of the financial year.
It is assumed that all Figure 17 summarises the total interests of the directors in dividends are reinvested.
shares of Anglo American plc as at 13 February 2014 and at the end of the 2013 financial year.
These include beneficial and conditional interests.
As already disclosed, from the 2014 AGM Mark Cutifani is required to hold interests in shares to a value of three times basic salary built up over five years and Ren Mdori to a value of two times salary.
The vesting schedule of Mark Cutifanis one-off share award means that he is expected to have a net shareholding of beneficial shares equal to one-third times basic salary by mid-2014: this should rise to three-quarters times basic salary by the 2015 AGM.
Incentives awarded under the Companys share plans from 2013 will start to vest, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, from 2016 onwards.
The requirements for Ren Mdori have been exceeded.
Other interests above comprise 132,208 shares in the Company which will vest, subject to Mr Cutifanis continued appointment as chief executive, in four tranches, as follows: 51,680 shares in February 2014, 9,983 shares in May 2014, 67,475 shares in February 2015 and 3,070 shares in February 2016.
2 Ren Mdoris beneficial interests in 116,215 shares held at the date of this report arise as a result of his wifes interests in shares.
3 As previously reported, Sir John Parker was awarded 7,552 shares in the Company on 28 February 2011, which will be released in full on the third anniversary of the award date, subject to his continued chairmanship.
The award has been matched by Sir John progressively over the three-year period.
4 Byron Grote was appointed to the Board on 19 April 2013, Mphu Ramatlapeng on 8 July 2013 and Jim Rutherford on 4 November 2013.
5 Included in the interests of Messrs Grote, ORourke, Thompson and Woicke are unsponsored ADRs representing 0.5 ordinary shares of $0.54945 each.
6 Interests are shown as at date of resignation.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 139 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT her contractual provisions total: 1,207,373 and the 5.
REMUNERATION IN 2014 continuation of non-cash benefits total: 15,249.
Cynthia The changes to the Companys policy on executive director Carroll also received 117,000 in respect of accrued but remuneration for 2014 are summarised in the Remuneration untaken holiday.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, Committee Chairmans introductory letter and are reflected 643,000, representing a partial distribution of Cynthia in the policy statements in Figure 1.
Figure 18 summarises Carrolls UURBS account balance, was paid out to her in how that policy will be implemented in 2014.
The remaining balance, 654,000, is due performance range will be disclosed in the 2014 to be paid out in April 2014. remuneration report.
Figure 12 also sets out the value of the Enhancement In December 2013, the Board approved an increase in Shares and LTIP award made in 2011, which the Committee the fee levels for committee chairmen and the senior has determined will vest on the normal vesting dates in independent director with effect from 1January 2014.
March 2014, pro-rated for the performance period served The previous increase was in January 2012.
Details of 28 months out of the 36 months and to the extent the the new fee levels are set out in Figure 19. performance conditions have been satisfied.
With respect to the Enhancement Shares and LTIP award 6.
TE RMINATION ARRANGEMENTS made in 2012, the Committee has likewise determined that these awards will vest on the normal vesting dates in Figure 12 sets out the remuneration received by Cynthia March 2015, subject to performance and pro-rating.
The Carroll for the first four months of 2013 when she was still an provisional value of these awards on vesting will be employee of the Company.
For the remaining eight months disclosed in the 2014 remuneration report.
of 2013, and for January 2014, she received monthly payments comprising basic salary and benefits, The Bonus Shares already held by Cynthia Carroll were representing her outstanding notice period, in line with released to her on termination.
Figure 18: Summary of key remuneration aspects in 2014 Performance measure 1, weighting and vesting Performance measure 2, Element schedule weighting and vesting schedule Director Level Base Salary Mark Cutifani 1,236,000 3% increase Ren Mdori 788,000 3% increase BSP EPS 50% Personal strategic measures 50% Mark Cutifani 210% of salary Personal and strategic objectives Ren Mdori 210% of salary supporting the Companys delivery on projects, business improvement, capital allocation, commercial activities, employee development and stakeholder engagement.
LTIP share ROCE 50% TSR vs HSBC Mining Index 25% Mark Cutifani 350% of salary awards 25% for 12% 25% for TSR equal to index Ren Mdori 300% of salary 100% for 16% 100% for index 6% pa or above TSR vs FTSE 100 25% 25% for TSR equal to median 100% for 80th percentile or above Figure 19: Summary of key non-executive director remuneration in 2014 Element 2013 2014 Basic Fee 80,000 80,000 Committee chairman fees: Audit, Remuneration and S&SD Committees 25,000 30,000 1 Nomination Committee 12,500 15,000 Additional fee for senior independent director 25,000 30,000 1 The current chairman of this committee waives this fee.
140 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Sir Philip Hampton David Challen Sir CK Chow Byron Grote from 12 June 2013 Ray ORourke from 12 June 2013 Jack Thompson Peter Woicke to 19 April 2013 COMMITTEE MEMBERS DURING 2013 7.
R EMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2013 Remuneration report voting results The Committee considered the results of the shareholders Membership vote on the 2012 remuneration report.
As mentioned earlier The Committee comprised the non-executive directors in this report, feedback from investors at the time of the shown above during the year ended 31 December 2013.
2013 AGM, and more generally, helped shape the changes to the remuneration policy for 2014 onwards.
Figure 20: External advisers and fees Other services provided Fees for Committee Advisers to the Company assistance Pricewaterhouse Appointed by the Company, with the agreement of the Investment advisers, actuaries and 113,800 Coopers Committee, to support and advise on the review of the auditors for various pension schemes: LLP PwC Companys incentive arrangements, in addition to the advisers on internal audit projects: provision of specialist valuation services and market taxation, payroll and executive remuneration data compensation advice Linklaters LLP Appointed by the Company, with the agreement of the Legal advice on certain corporate 13,500 Linklaters Committee, to provide legal advice on long-term incentives matters and directors service contracts Towers Watson The Human Resources function engaged Towers Watson to Human resources advisers on various 38,000 TW assist with the preparation of the 2013 remuneration report reward and other matters and to provide briefing sessions to Committee members on the new reporting regulations Deloitte LLP In their capacity as Group auditors, Deloitte undertake an n a Deloitte audit of sections 3 and 4 of the remuneration report annually.
However, they provide no advice to the Committee Note: Certain overseas operations within the Group are also provided with audit related services from Deloittes and PwCs worldwide member firms and non-audit related services from TW.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 141 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Figure 21: Response to 2013 AGM shareholder voting Number of votes Vote For Against Abstain Company response to issues raised Advisory 629,554,600 167,304,694 74,048,974 In response to investor concerns relating to Mark Cutifanis vote on 2012 79% 21% restricted share grant, the Company has changed its policy remuneration for newly hired executive directors so that performance report conditions will attach to any share-based award made by the Company relating to remuneration forfeited on leaving the previous employer In response to general investor calls for greater simplicity, better alignment and longer-time horizons of incentive plans, the Company has removed Enhancement Shares in the BSP, replaced AOSC with ROCE as an LTIP measure and introduced additional holding periods for both the BSP and LTIP 8.
FIVE-YEAR REMUNERATION AND RETURNS Figure 22a: Five year TSR performance Figure 22a shows the Companys TSR performance 240 against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index from 220 1January 2009 to 31 December 2013.
The FTSE 100 Index was chosen as being a broad equity market index which 200 includes companies of a comparable size and complexity to 180 Anglo American.
140 TSR is calculated in US dollars, and assumes all dividends are reinvested.
The TSR level shown as at 31 December 120 each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for 110 the five-day period up to and including that date.
100 Figure 22b shows the total remuneration earned by the incumbent chief executive over the same five-year period, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned in relation to each type of incentive.
The total amounts are Source: Datastream Return Index based on the same methodology as for Figure 12 Total Remuneration Outcomes for 2013.
For the period 200910, the TSR performance of the Company, and the remuneration received by Cynthia Carroll as chief executive, reflects that this was a period of strong operational performance and high commodity prices.
These led to a doubling of profits and almost a doubling of underlying EPS in 2010.
Cynthia Carrolls 2011 remuneration levels also reflect record profits and strong EPS performance for the year as well as the increase in value of the LTIP awards that vested at the end of 2011 when granted the Companys share price was 12.61: the share price at vesting was 26.00.
Incentive outcomes have been much lower in recent years reflecting, in part, the impact of the fall in commodity prices on our earnings and the returns being delivered to shareholders.
142 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Value of a hypothetical $100 investment Governance Figure 22b: CEO remuneration 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Financial year ending 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cynthia Carroll Total Remuneration single figure, 000 4,379 4,235 8,113 3,203 1,459 BSP % of maximum 99% 88% 94% 35% 67% LTIP % of maximum 61% 50% 96% 50% 28% BSP Enhancement Shares % of maximum 0% 0% 100% 0% 0% Mark Cutifani Total Remuneration single figure, 000 5,305 BSP % of maximum 65% APPROVAL This directors remuneration report has been approved by the Board of directors of AngloAmerican plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors.
Sir Philip Hampton Chairman, Remuneration Committee 13 February 2014 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 143
