Governance EFFECTIVENESS As part of the directors formal induction process, meetings The boards role is to provide entrepreneurial are arranged with senior executives in order to develop a full understanding of the Anglo American Group.
During leadership of the company within a framework 2013, Byron Grote, Mphu Ramatlapeng and Jim Rutherford of prudent and effective controls which enables participated over a number of days in meetings with GMC members, business unit BU heads and members of the risk to be assessed and managed.
Judy Dlamini attended briefings in early 2014.
Training and briefings are also available to directors The FRCs Guidance on board effectiveness states that, throughout their tenure, as necessary, taking into account the boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of existing qualifications and experience.
Directors also have the company within a framework of prudent and effective access to management, and to the advice of the company controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
Furthermore, all directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning the affairs of For a board to be effective it must be composed of the right Anglo American at the Companys expense, although no people, led by a strong but not dominant chairman and such advice was sought during 2013.
Regular presentations maintain independence with a majority of the Board are made to the Board by BU management on the activities composed of non-executive directors.
The Board must of operations.
evaluate its performance and seek to continually improve its approach to promoting the success of the company for the The company secretary facilitates board training and benefit of its stakeholders.
The directors must be sufficiently during the year directors attended courses on, interalia, educated in the operation of the company in order to make finance, corporate governance, strategy, compliance, informed decisions.
The Board should delegate certain regulatory developments, audit committee issues and matters to committees which afford specialist discussion general director duties and responsibilities.
The outside the board environment.
We seek to do our utmost to directors are given the opportunity to discuss their promote a high performing board and some of the ways we development needs with the chairman during individual do this are detailed below.
Independence of directors Board evaluation The Board has a strong independent element and currently Please see the table overleaf for the results of our externally comprises, in addition to the chairman, two executive facilitated evaluation which took place in 2012 and the directors and eleven NEDs, all of whom are independent achievements against goals, set around it during 2013.
In according to the definition contained in the Code.
Full our last annual report, we disclosed our intention to include biographical details for each director are given on pages comments from the external board evaluation in the board 9496.
The letters of appointment of the NEDs as well as agendas for the proceeding 12-18 month period.
The Board the executive directors service contracts are available for was described as balanced, with a wide range of depth inspection at the registered office of the Company.
and breadth of skills and experience.
The induction None of the NEDs has served concurrently with an programme offered to new NEDs which included site visits executive director for more than nine years.
was received positively and deepened the understanding of the business.
The overall board dynamics were described Sir Philip Hampton will assume the role of senior as respectful challenge, without any cosiness.
independent director upon David Challens retirement on24April 2014.
A further internal evaluation was conducted in late 2013 with goals set for 2014 which will be reported against in next Director training years annual report.
Anglo Americans directors have a wide range of expertise as well as significant experience in strategic, financial, commercial and mining activities.
Upon appointment, directors are provided with recent board materials and a reference manual containing information on legal obligations and other matters of which they should be aware.
Guidance is provided on Market Conduct under the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the Companys Articles, the Code and the Model Code.
The manual also includes items such as board and committee terms of reference, relevant company information and guidance on where to obtain independent advice.
The manual is updated periodically when appropriate.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 103 GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS Board Evaluation Action Plan 2013 2012 2013 board action plan Achievements against action plan Strategy and strategy More frequent strategy discussion required Strategy included as regular item at board process with focus on growth in earnings strategy meetings and June 2013 strategy meeting.
Focus on longer term including 10 years outlook Audit Committee More stress testing and fantail forecasting Areas reviewed included: commodity pricing in key areas volatility: cash flow: China economic impact: inflation changes: impact on mining costs: ROCE scenarios Investments, acquisitions Allocate more time to discuss strategic More time allocated in board meetings and disposals implications of acquisitions and organisational changes Project management More assurance on key learnings from Presentations prepared accordingly challenging projects Executive remuneration Review of how we incentivise the right Review carried out, draft proposals drawn up behaviours in creating long term and discussed with major shareholders, after shareholder value which the Remuneration Committee agreed the final changes Improving board meeting Improve the structure of the board agenda Priority decisions clearly flagged on the effectiveness to facilitate informed debate and focus on agenda and priority topics scheduled at the important issues.
Agenda colour coded to differentiate between items for noting, approval and for information Board and NED knowledge NEDs requested more site visit The Board holds one meeting a year development opportunities overseas to incorporate a mine visit.
In addition, arrangements were made for NEDs to visit various operations during the year.
See Board in action 104 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
