Governance satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts meet this AUDIT COMMITTEE requirement as appropriate weight has been given to both positive and negative developments in the year.
In justifying this statement the Audit Committee has David Challen Chairman, Audit Committee considered the robust process which operates in creating the report and accounts, including: clear guidance and instruction is given to all contributors revisions to regulatory requirements, including the UK Corporate Governance Code, are monitored on an ongoingbasis early warning meetings are conducted between business unit management and the auditors in advance of the year Composition end reporting process Compliant with the Code: input is provided by senior management and corporate David Challen chairman functions Judy Dlamini a thorough process of review, evaluation and verification Byron Grote of the inputs from business units is undertaken to ensure Sir Philip Hampton accuracy and consistency Phuthuma Nhleko Anne Stevens further reviews are conducted by senior management a review is conducted by external advisors appointed to advise management on best practice with regard to creation The Audit Committee plays a critical role in ensuring of the report and accounts high quality financial reporting and providing a meeting of the Audit Committee is held to review and assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the consider the draft annual report and accounts in advance internal control environment.
of the final sign-off David Challen final sign-off is provided by the Board of directors.
Chairman, Audit Committee Committee discussions in 2013 The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2013.
Role and responsibilities Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial In January, the Committee: statements, the accompanying reports to shareholders and received an update on the status of the Minas-Rio project corporate governance statements.
and discussed the impairment to be recommended to theBoard, together with the proposed disclosure in the Making recommendations to the Board concerning the financial statements adoption of the annual and interim financial statements.
received a report from management on the Minas-Rio Overseeing the Groups relations with the external auditors project status, inaddition to a report provided by consultants including assessment of independence and effectiveness of appointed by the Board to give an independent assessment the external auditor.
of the project, including recommendations for expediting its Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, completion.
Based on these presentations that included retention and removal of the external auditors and tendering robust challenges to management and detailed discussion of of external audit services.
project risks, the Audit Committee agreed to recommend to the Board revised capital spend and the proposed impairment.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups The Committee sought input from the external auditor over internal control and risk-management systems, including the impairment number in reaching its conclusion.
reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and reporting all key risks.
In February, the Committee: reviewed in detail the significant accounting issues and the Approving the terms of reference and plans of the internal press release for the 2012 year end results.
proposed impairments were presented by management Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular and questioned by the Committee prior to reaching reports from the head of internal audit on effectiveness agreement on the proposals.
The Committee sought input of the internal control system.
from the external auditor in reaching its position Receiving reports from management on the key risks received a presentation from management on the internal of the Group and management of those risks.
Further control environment within the newly established details of such risks are provided on pages 4653. commercial operating model.
The Committee satisfied itself Fair, Balanced and Understandable that the internal control environment for the new Singapore A key requirement of our financial statements is for marketing and commercial function was designed the report and accounts to be fair, balanced and appropriately and operating effectively understandable.
The Audit Committee and the Board are Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 109 GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEES reviewed the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource report, In December, the Committee: focusing on the significant changes from the previous years received a presentation from management on a proposed report and understanding the third party audit coverage plan trading initiative for Thermal Coal.
The Committee focused for the three year period between 2012 and 2015 on the risks, governance and controls associated with the proposal and requested assurance that the controls noted the status of actions in connection with control operate as intended at a future meeting improvements recommended by the external auditor from the 2011 audit received a presentation from management on the DeBeers business, its risks, internal control matters and noted and approved the register of non-audit assignments the enhancement to internal controls arising from its conducted by the external auditors in 2012 integration into Anglo American.
The Committee reviewed a report on completion of the 2012 internal audit questioned aspects of the business and its complexities to plan and discussed the significant findings, while noting the ensure a deeper understanding of the key issues that internal control environment was judged to be effective affect the risk profile and performance of the business based on an overall assessment of risk and assurance work, reviewed the detailed analysis presented by management and met with the internal and external auditors without the on the significant accounting issues that would impact the presence of management.
The Committee probed In July, the Committee: management on the assumptions made and conclusions received and discussed in detail an update of discussions reached, requesting input from the external auditor.
with the South African tax authorities over matters relating Principal issues included the proposed impairments and to Anglo American Platinum.
Following discussion the Audit provisions for the Anglo American Platinum portfolio Committee approved the level of provisioning and proposed review, Barro Alto, Foxleigh, Michiquillay, Platinum tax disclosure, having sought assurance from the external matters, accounting for the disposal of Amap, and auditor that both were appropriate accounting for the exit from the Pebble project.
The evaluated managements proposed accounting treatment Committee also received an update on the Minas-Rio and disclosure relating to various matters including: Amap project, challenging the assumptions used in the latest mine, following the tragic incident at the port of Santana and valuation.
The Audit Committee approved the 2013 audit the proposed sale: creation of the Lafarge Tarmac joint fee, having reviewed the factors generating changes venture: and Anglo American Platinum restructuring.
The from 2012 audit committee provided comments to management on discussed the UK Corporate Governance Code the draft interim results press release requirement to put the audit contract out to tender at least reviewed the assumptions underpinning the going concern every 10 years, and the outcome of the UK Competition assessment including forecast solvency and liquidity to Commission final report and likely changes in law enable it to approve the 2013 interim financial statements from October 2014.
In the context of the current UK on a going concern basis regulatory guidance, the Committee agreed to make a recommendation to the Board on the approach to audit satisfied itself that the external auditor was in agreement tendering, as explained in more detail on page 112 with the accounting treatment and judgement proposed by management on the significant accounting items approved the external audit plan for the 2013 audit and external auditors view on the key audit risks.
The considered and approved the register of non-audit Committee discussed these risks and satisfied itself they assignments undertaken by the external auditor in the first were aligned with managements view on audit risks half of 2013 noted the status of recommendations provided by the received a report on the progress of the internal audit plan external auditor in respect of control matters highlighted in for 2013 and discussed in detail the more significant items the 2012 audit identified for management attention and results of matters that the internal audit team had been asked to investigate, approved the proposed 2014 internal audit plan after requesting an update at the next meeting evaluation of the process by which the plan was generated and satisfying itself that the key areas of risk were covered reviewed the risk profile of Anglo American and each of its by the plan business units based on a paper prepared by management.
The Committee challenged the relative priority of the risks received an update on the Anglo American risk profile, and evaluated the potential impact of the key risks, including focusing on changes in external conditions and progress potentially catastrophic risks, noting the controls in place to with mitigation.
The Committee also received the updated mitigate such risks and additional actions where required risk profiles for the business units and plans for risk The Committee reviewed the process and results emerging assessment work in 2014 from the annual review performed to evaluate the reviewed its Terms of Reference and concluded no independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The changes were necessary, and met the internal and external Committee agreed with the conclusion that the 2012 audit auditors without the presence of management.
The Audit Committee report is set out on pages 111116.
110 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
