GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEES Diversity policy NOMINATION COMMITTEE To increase diversity, in particular the representation of women and ethnicity on the Board.
With the appointment of Judy Dlamini and the retirement of David Challen and Sir John Parker Sir CK Chow, the percentage of women on the Board, will Chairman, Nomination Committee revert to 25% in April 2014.
Committee discussions in 2013 In February, the Committee: discussed the appointment of Jack Thompson as chairman of the S&SD Committee recommended the appointment of Byron Grote to the Board and the Audit Committee discussed succession planning.
Composition In April, the Committee: Compliant with the Code: discussed the search for more female NEDs and those Sir John Parker chairman with South African and or sustainable and international David Challen development experience.
Sir CK Chow Phuthuma Nhleko In June, the Committee: Ray ORourke agreed to recommend the appointment of Anne Stevens Mphu Ramatlapeng to the Board discussed changes to committee memberships discussed candidates for appointments as NEDs The Nomination Committee has enhanced the with South African business experience.
current diversity of the Board by identifying and nominating suitably qualified candidates.
In July, the Committee: recommended Judy Dlaminis appointment as Sir John Parker a NED Chairman, Nomination Committee discussed the need for the Board to have investor capital markets experience.
Role and responsibilities Setting guidelines with the approval of the Board for In October 2013, the Committee members the types of skills, experience and diversity being sought recommended the appointment of Jim Rutherford when making a search for new directors.
With the assistance as a NED.
of external consultants, identifying and reviewing in detail During the year Spencer Stuart and Buchanan Harvey each potential candidate available in the market and were used as external search consultants in the recruitment agreeing a long list of candidates for each directorship.
Following further discussion and research deciding upon a shortlist of candidates for interview.
Interviewing of shortlisted candidates by the Committee members who then convene to discuss their impressions and conclusions, culminating in a recommendation to the Board Making recommendations as to the composition of the Board and its committees and the balance between executive directors and non-executive directors NEDs, with the aim of cultivating a board with the appropriate mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company Ensuring that the HR function of the Group regularly reviews and updates the succession plans of directors and senior managers for subsequent debate with the NEDs and chief executive.
108 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
