GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP Sir John Parker Mark Cutifani Ren Mdori David Challen THE BOARD CHAIRMAN FINANCE DIRECTOR Sir John Parker Ren Mdori GBE, FREng, DSc Eng, ScD Hon, DSc Hon, DUniv Hon, FRINA Doctorate in Economics 71, joined the Board as a non-executive director on 9 July 56, was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2005, becoming 2009 and became chairman on 1 August 2009.
Sir John finance director on 1 September 2005.
Ren is a member is also chairman of the Nomination Committee and is a of the GMC and chairman of CorpCo and the Investment member of the Safety and Sustainable Development Committee.
Ren brings significant financial and S&SD Committee.
Sir John is recognised as a highly commercial expertise from capital intensive businesses, experienced and independent chairman and brings a wealth supplying products to the oil refining, steel and mining of leadership experience across a range of industries in industries and experience in international finance in the many countries, including in South Africa.
UK, Europe and the United States.
He is a non-executive director of Carnival Corporation He is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum and Airbus Group as well as deputy chairman of DP World.
Ren is a former finance SirJohn is also President of the Royal Academy of director of The BOC Group plc and was a non-executive Engineering and a Visiting Fellow of the University of Oxford.
director of SSE plc formerly Scottish and Southern Sir John was previously chairman of National Grid plc, senior Energyplc.
non-executive director and chair of the Court of the Bank of England, joint chair of Mondi and chair of BVT and P&O plc.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR David Challen CHIEF EXECUTIVE MA, MBA Mark Cutifani 70, joined the Board on 9 September 2002 and was BE Mining Engineering appointed as the senior independent non-executive director 55, was appointed as a director and CEO with effect from SID in April 2008.
He is chairman of the Audit Committee 3April 2013, and is chairman of the Group Management and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee GMC and a member of the Corporate Committees.
David brings an in-depth understanding Committee CorpCo and the S&SD Committee.
Mark of capital markets and key insights on financial matters.
has over 37 years experience of the mining industry across David is currently chairman of the EMEA governance a wide range of geographies and commodities.
committee at Citigroup and senior non-executive director He is a non-executive director of Anglo American Platinum of Smiths Group plc.
He is currently a deputy chairman of Limited and was previously CEO of AngloGold Ashanti the UKs Takeover Panel.
Previously he was chairman of Limited.
Before joining AngloGold Ashanti, Mark was COO J. Henry Schroder & Co. Limited, where he spent most at Vale Inco, where he was responsible for Vales global of his professional career.
Prior to this he held senior executive David will step down from the Board at the forthcoming positions with the Normandy Group, Sons of Gwalia, AGM.
Western Mining Corporation, Kalgoorlie Consolidated GoldMines and CRA Rio Tinto.
94 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Sir CK Chow Judy Dlamini Byron Grote Sir Philip Hampton Phuthuma Nhleko NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sir CK Chow Byron Grote DEng Hon, CEng, FREng, HonFHKIE, FIChemE PhD Quantitative Analysis 63, was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008 and is a 65, was appointed to the Board on 19 April 2013 and is a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Byron He is currently chairman of Hong Kong Exchanges and contributes broad business, financial and board experience Clearing Limited and a non-executive director of AIA in numerous geographies.
Sir CK contributes broad business and He is a non-executive director of Unilever NV and Unilever board experience.
Byron has extensive management experience across Sir CK is a member of the Executive Council of the Hong the oil and gas industry.
He served on the BP plc board from Kong Special Administrative Region, chairman of the Hong 2000 until 2013 and was BPs chief financial officer during Kong General Chamber of Commerce and chairman of the much of that period.
Advisory Committee on Corruption for the Hong Kong SAR Byron will succeed David Challen as chairman of the Government.
Between 2003 and 2011, he was CEO of the AuditCommittee.
MTR Corporation in Hong Kong.
Former positions include those of CEO of Brambles Industries, GKN PLC and Sir Philip Hampton non-executive chairman of Standard Chartered Bank Hong MA, ACA, MBA Kong Limited.
Prior to joining GKN PLC he worked for The 60, joined the Board on 9 November 2009.
He is chairman BOC Group plc for 20 years, joining its board in 1993. of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Sir CK will step down from the Board at the forthcoming Audit Committee.
Sir Philip is chairman of The Royal Bank AGM.
of Scotland and brings to Anglo American significant financial, strategic and boardroom experience across a Judy Dlamini number of industries.
MBChB, DOH, MBA His previous appointments include chairman of J Sainsbury 54, was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2014 and is plc: finance director of Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, a member of the Audit Committee.
She will be appointed BG Group plc, British Gas plc and British Steel plc, executive asa member of the Remuneration Committee at the director of Lazards, and non-executive director of RMC conclusion of the AGM.
Judy is a successful businesswoman Group plc and Belgacom SA.
with longstanding public company board experience across a range of geographies and sectors, including mining.
Sir Philip will succeed David Challen as the senior independent director at the conclusion of the AGM.
She is the chairman of Aspen Pharmacare and founder and chairman of Mbekani Group, a South African healthcare Phuthuma Nhleko investment company.
Judy served as a non-executive BSc Eng, MBA director of Northam Platinum between 2004 and 2013, 53, joined the Board on 9 March 2011 and is a member of and as a member of that companys committees on: health: the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Phuthuma is also safety and environmental: investment: and social, ethics chairman of Pembani Group Pty Limited and Afrisam and human resources.
She started her career as a medical South Africa Pty Limited and a non-executive director of practitioner and after spending two years at HSBC, she BP plc.
He is chairman of MTN Group Ltd, having formerly began to develop her entrepreneurial interests.
Judy is been the President and CEO from 2002 to 2011.
He brings also a founder and trustee of Mkhiwa Trust, a family vehicle broad business experience and previously served as a for social responsibility initiatives, and has served as a director on a number of boards in South Africa: Nedbank non-executive director on the boards of Discovery Holdings Group: Alexander Forbes: Bidvest: and Old Mutual SA.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 95 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP Ray ORourke Mphu Ramatlapeng Jim Rutherford Anne Stevens Jack Thompson Ray ORourke Between 1997 and 2013, he was a Senior Vice President KBE, HonFREng, CEng, FIEI, FICE of Capital International Investors, and had responsibility for investments in the mining and metals industry with a broad 67, joined the Board on 11 December 2009.
He is a member geographic focus that included Europe, Emerging Markets of the Nomination, Remuneration and S&SD Committees.
Prior to joining Capital Group, Jim was an Ray has a proven track record in delivering complex and investment analyst covering the South American mining and large-scale projects around the world, mobilising large metals industry for HSBC James Capel in New York.
numbers of people with great success and applying leading project management practices.
As a member of the S&SD Anne Stevens Committee, he has a keen interest in safety.
BSc, PhD Ray founded the ORourke Group in 1977, having begun his 65, joined the Board on 14 May 2012 and is a member career at Kier and J Murphy & Sons.
In 2001, the ORourke of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Anne brings a Group acquired John Laing to form Laing ORourke, now wealth of experience and wide-ranging commercial acumen Europes largest privately owned construction company, from a number of global industries including engineering.
She has experience gained across North, Central and South America.
Mphu Ramatlapeng MD, MHSc Anne has served on the board of Lockheed Martin Corporation as a non-executive director since 2002, and is 61, was appointed to the Board on 8 July 2013 and is also the chairman of a privately held IT services business, a member of the S&SD Committee.
Annes 16-year career with the Ford Motor Company experienced leader who brings a broad range of South culminated in her appointment as chief operating officer African and international health expertise at board level COO for the Americas, a position she held until 2006.
Prior across both the public and private sectors.
She has a clear to joining Ford in 1990, Anne spent 10 years in a number of vision and deep understanding of the social benefits of engineering, product development, and sales and marketing effective healthcare programmes and capacity building roles at Exxon Chemical Co, and three years as chairman through partnership.
and CEO of Carpenter Technology.
Mphu is the Executive Vice President of HIV AIDS and Tuberculosis programmes for the Clinton Health Access Jack Thompson Initiative and also the Vice Chair of the Global Fund to Fight BSc, PhD AIDS, TB and Malaria.
She served as Minister of Health and 63, joined the Board on 16 November 2009, is chairman of Social Welfare of Lesotho between 2007 and 2012.
In this the S&SD Committee and a member of the Remuneration role, she championed Lesothos significant achievements Committee.
Jack brings experience gained at all levels of in reducing the transmission of HIV from mother to child.
the mining industry and has received wide recognition as a Across her career, she has also been a leading advocate for mining executive.
He is currently a non-executive director women in business, including serving as founding board of Tidewater Inc. member of Women in Business in Lesotho.
Jack was previously chairman and CEO of Homestake Jim Rutherford Mining Co. vice chairman of Barrick Gold Corp. and BSc Econ, MA Econ has served on the boards of Centerra Gold Inc. Century Aluminum Co. Molycorp Inc. Phelps Dodge Corp. 54, joined the Board on 4 November 2013.
Jim is a member Rinker Group Ltd. and Stillwater Mining.
of the S&SD Committee and will be appointed as a member of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the AGM.
He has extensive experience in investment management and investment banking, both as an institutional investor and analyst.
He brings to the Board considerable financial insight from the perspective of the capital markets and a deep strategic understanding of the mining industry.
96 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Mark Cutifani Ren Mdori Khanyisile Kweyama Tony ONeill Mervyn Walker Peter Whitcutt Tony ONeill EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT MBA, BASc Eng 55, is Group director, technical, and joined Anglo American The Company has one principal executive committee in 2013.
He is a member of the S&SD and Investment the Group Management Committee GMC which Committees.
He is also a non-executive director of Kumba meets monthly is responsible for formulating Group Iron Ore and Anglo American Platinum Limited.
strategy for consideration and approval by the Board, setting budget and performance targets, talent Tony joined AngloGold Ashanti in July 2008 as Executive management and managing the Groups portfolio.
The Vice President Business and Technical Development and GMC is supported by a Corporate subcommittee served as Joint Acting CEO until July 2013.
His 35-year CorpCo, an Operational sub-committee OpCo and career in the mining industry has spanned iron ore, copper, an Investment sub-committee InvestCo.
CorpCo nickel and gold, and includes his roles as operations meets at least monthly and is principally responsible executive at Newcrest Mining and as the head of the gold for reviewing corporate policies and processes, as business at Western Mining Corporation.
Tony is a mining well as reviewing financial performance and budgets engineer with an MBA from the University of Melbourne.
Its responsibilities include driving operational best Mervyn Walker practices across the Group and the setting of technical MA Oxon standards.
Investco meets at least monthly and is 54, is Group director, HR and corporate affairs.
He is a principally responsible for making recommendations solicitor by training and joined Anglo American in 2008 to the GMC on capital investment proposals.
from Mondi, where he was group HR and legal director.
He is currently also non-executive chairman of pension GMC AND CORPORATE COMMITTEE MEMBERS schemes for AMEC plc.
Mervyn previously held a series of senior roles at British Airways, including HR director, legal Mark Cutifani director, director of purchasing and director of UK airports.
See page 94 for biographical details.
Peter Whitcutt Ren Mdori BCom Hons, CA SA, MBA See page 94 for biographical details.
48, is Group director, strategy, business development and Khanyisile Kweyama commercial.
He joined Anglo American in 1990 within the BS Administration USA, PDM Wits, MM Human Resources Wits corporate finance division.
He worked on the merger of Minorco with Anglo American, the listing of Anglo American 48, is Executive director, Anglo American South Africa in 1999, and the subsequent unwinding of the cross-holding Limited and a non-executive director of Anglo American with fide Beers.
Peter was appointed Group head of finance Platinum Limited.
Khanyisile formerly served on the in 2003, CFO of Base Metals in August 2008 and to his executive committee of Anglo American Platinum Limited, present position in October 2009, which was expanded to during which time she was successful in building a cohesive include Commercial in 2013. management team, driving performance and improving relationships with unions.
She gained corporate experience in a number of international companies, including BMW, Altech and Barloworld Ltd, holding executive roles incorporating human resources, industrial relations, corporate affairs, stakeholder relations and transformation.
She has also been elected as the vice president of the South African Chamber of Mines.
She has served as a nonexecutive director at various companies, including the boards of Sovereign Foods Ltd, IAC and Key Mix Investments, and currently serves on the boards of Business Leadership South Africa BLSA, Telkom, New Partnership for Africas Development NEPAD business forum and the International Geology Forum IGF.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 97 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP Paulo Castellari-Porchia Seamus French Chris Griffith Norman Mbazima Philippe Mellier Duncan Wanblad GMC MEMBERS Norman Mbazima FCCA, FZICA Paulo Castellari-Porchia 55, was appointed CEO of Kumba Iron Ore with effect from Bcom, MBA 1 September 2012.
He joined Anglo American in 2001 at 43, is CEO of Iron Ore Brazil.
He was previously CEO of Konkola Copper Mines plc.
He was subsequently appointed Anglo Americans Phosphates and Niobium businesses in global CFO for Anglo Coal.
He became executive director of Brazil and served in Anglo Americans former Base Metals finance at Anglo American Platinum Limited in June 2006 division.
Paulos career with the Group started in 1993 and and later stepped in as joint acting CEO.
Prior to this, has included positions at AngloGold Ashanti and Minorco in Norman was CEO of Scaw Metals from May 2008 and later a number of corporate finance and capital project roles.
CEO of Thermal Coal from October 2009, a position he held until 2012.
Seamus French B Eng Chemical Philippe Mellier MSc Mechanical Engineering, MBA 51, is CEO of Coal.
He joined WMC Resources in Australia in1994, initially in a strategic planning and business 58, was appointed CEO of fide Beers Group in July 2011. development role and progressed to various operational He began his career in 1980 with the Ford Motor Company, management roles, gaining extensive experience in the where he occupied various senior management positions gold and nickel businesses before advancing to the position over 19 years.
In 1999, Philippe joined Renault as a senior of executive general manager, copper-uranium division.
vice president in charge of European sales, and was a Seamus joined BHP Billiton as global vice president, member of the management board.
In 2001 he moved to business excellence, following its takeover of WMC in 2005.
Volvo AB to become chairman and CEO of Renault Trucks, He was appointed regional CEO of Anglo Coal Australia in and a member of the Volvo Group executive committee.
In 2007, bringing strong skills in operations, safety and 2003, Philippe became president of Alstom Transport and business improvement to the role.
He was CEO of was appointed executive vice president of Alstom Group a Metallurgical Coal between 2009 and 2013. year later.
Chris Griffith Duncan Wanblad B Eng Mining Hons, Pr Eng BSc Eng Mech, GDE Eng Management 48, was appointed CEO of Anglo American Platinum 47, is CEO of Base Metals and Minerals.
He began his Limited with effect from 1 September 2012.
He was career at Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Company previously CEO of Kumba Iron Ore from 2008.
Between 2009 and 2013, Duncan held he was Anglo American Platinums head of operations for the position of group director, Other Mining and Industrial joint ventures.
Chris has been with Anglo American for more businesses.
He was appointed to the board of Anglo than 24 years.
American Platinum Limited in 2004 and was appointed joint interim CEO of Anglo American Platinum in 2007, before taking over as CEO of Anglo Americans copper operations in 2008.
98 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Role of the senior independent director THE ROLE OF THE BOARD David Challen is the senior independent non-executive director SID.
The SID is available to shareholders, acts The Board of directors has a duty to promote the long as a sounding board and confidant for the chairman and term success of the Company for its shareholders.
Its is available as an intermediary for the other directors role includes the establishment, review and monitoring if necessary.
Sir Philip Hampton will assume the role of strategic objectives, approval of major acquisitions, of SID upon MrChallens retirement on 24 April 2014. disposals and capital expenditure, and overseeing the Groups systems of internal control, governance and Company secretary risk management.
The company secretary works closely with the chairman in providing guidance on governance issues.
During our Our Board Charter sets out, inter alia, the mandate of the recent board and committee evaluations, the company Board and those powers that it does not delegate to its secretary encouraged open feedback from directors committees, such as approval of business plans, budgets and follow up of actions resulting from these reviews as and material expenditure.
It serves to ensure that board part of the ongoing process of improvement.
For more members acting on behalf of Anglo American are aware information please see the Board evaluation action of their main roles, duties and responsibilities, and to ensure plan on page 104. that the highest principles of corporate governance are applied in all their dealings in respect of, and on behalf of, the Company.
It also covers the appointment and removal of directors, the establishment of Board committees, Board procedures, director and Board evaluation and the delegation of authority to the executive management.
Every year the Board holds a two-day strategy meeting at which the non-executive directors NEDs contribute their expertise and independent perspective in developing the strategy of the Company.
Role of the chairman The Board is chaired by Sir John Parker.
The chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness.
Role of the chief executive The CEO is responsible for the execution of strategy and the day-to-day management of the Group, supported by GMC and CorpCo, which are currently chaired by Mark Cutifani and Ren Mdori respectively.
The functions and membership of GMC and CorpCo are set out on pages 9798.
The Company has adopted the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Statement of Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 99 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Board and committee structure Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the Audit Board delegates certain responsibilities to a number Committee of standing committees the Safety and Sustainable Investment Development S&SD, Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committee Committees.
These committees are made up of a majority Remuneration of non-executive directors who contribute an independent, Committee external perspective and who make recommendations to Corporate the wider Board on issues discussed.
The minutes of these Committee Group committees are reviewed at each board meeting and the Management Board Committee Nomination chairmen of each committee reports, at each board Committee meeting, on the activities of the relevant committee.
The Company and directors expect high levels of attendance at Operational Committee meetings and those for 2013 are shown in the table below.
Safety and Pages 107110 and 117 set out the activities of these Sustainable committees throughout the year.
Development Committee The Board also delegates certain responsibilities to the Group Management Committee GMC which is made up of executives.
For more information on the executive Executive and Non-executive Delegation committees, please see pages 9798.
Non-executive Recommendation Executive In addition to the above committees, the Investment Committee, Corporate Committee and Operational Committee provide advice to, and have certain authorities Investment Committee Ren Mdori chairman, delegated to them, by the GMC.
Tony ONeill, Nimesh Patel and Peter Whitcutt.
The members of these committees are as follows: The terms of reference for the principal committees and Corporate Committee please see page 97 a schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision are published on the Companys website.
Operational Committee Tony ONeill chairman, Mark Cutifani, Paulo Castellari-Porchia, Seamus French, Chris Griffith, Norman Mbazima, Philippe Mellier and Duncan Wanblad Board and Committee meetings 2013 frequency and attendance Independent Board Audit S&SD Remuneration Nomination seven four four four four meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Sir John Parker n a All All All 1 Cynthia Carroll No Two One 2 Mark Cutifani No All All Ren Mdori No All David Challen Yes All All All All 3 Sir CK Chow Yes Six All All 2 Byron Grote Yes All All All 3 Sir Philip Hampton Yes Six Three All Phuthuma Nhleko Yes Six All All Ray ORourke Yes All All All All All 2 Mphu Ramatlapeng Yes All All 2 Jim Rutherford Yes All All 2 3 Anne Stevens Yes Six Three All Jack Thompson Yes All All All 1 3 Peter Woicke Yes Two All All All 1 Meetings attended prior to retirement.
3 Not able to attend unscheduled meeting held in January.
100 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance KEY BOARD DISCUSSIONS 2013 STRATEGY The standing agenda sets the framework for board In June, the Board spent two days challenging and meetings throughout the year and includes items such as developing the Anglo American strategy with the new safety and health, environment, people and organisation, CEO Mark Cutifani.
The Board received presentations from production, projects and exploration, finance and executives and agreed to focus on the key challenges as commercial, strategy and business development, external detailed below.
These were communicated in the Interim relations and progress on critical tasks.
In addition, specific Results presentation in July, namely: Anglo American items are dealt with as and when necessary.
Platinum restructure: Kumba revitalisation: social complexity and industrial threats in South Africa: Copper Examples of these specific items are set out below.
production delivery Collahuasi Los Bronces recovery: January Barro Alto furnace recovery and rebuild programme: The Board reviewed the proceedings of the Audit Minas-Rio project: fide Beers delivery: and Metallurgical Coal Committee held immediately prior to the board meeting cost management.
and noted and agreed with its recommendations for the The strategy was further communicated at the Investor Minas-Rio project concerning revised capital expenditure, Day in December which set out goals for the Groups an accounting impairment and the related press release.
performance and action plans to achieve them.
This February included an improved target ROCE of at least 15%, focus The Board discussed a recommendation for the 2012 final on capital allocation and optimisation of the portfolio.
The dividend which the shareholders subsequently approved Board played a key part in strategic decisions such as the at the AGM.
The Board was updated on visits made by exit from the Pebble Project after a thorough assessment Cynthia Carroll, Brian Beamish and Ren Mdori to China of the extensive pipeline of long-dated project options.
The Board also held a thorough The Board agreed to prioritise capital to projects with the review of Anglo American Platinum.
highest value and lowest risks, and reduce the capital required as part of a more effective, value-driven capital April allocation model.
Mark Cutifani was welcomed to his first meeting as CEO and the Board discussed the new CEOs agenda.
It also For more information on the Groups strategy see pages reviewed a Commercial Operating Model update.
June The Board agreed certain changes to committee compositions and received a detailed progress report on Minas-Rio.
The Board held a two-day strategy meeting as detailed below.
July The Board approved the 2013 interim dividend.
Mr Cutifani led a discussion on key challenges for the Group including strategies to improve return on capital employed ROCE and manage business execution, capital allocation and stakeholder engagement.
The Board also discussed the Pebble Project in Alaska which the Group subsequently exited later in the year.
October The Board discussed proposed organisation changes and the Kumba Iron Ore Arcelor Mittal dispute.
December Tony ONeill presented a technical overview and report on findings regarding Sishen, Los Bronces, Quellaveco and Minas-Rio.
The Board reviewed the presentation for the Analyst and Investor Strategy event held in December and the Thermal Coal Trading Pilot.
The Board approved the budget and plan for 20142016.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 101 GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP Board visit to South Africa BOARD IN ACTION The Board travelled to South Africa for the October meeting.
Certain directors participated in a mining course and As part of directors induction and ongoing training others in a site visit to the fide Beers Venetia mine.
During programme, as well as being an opportunity to review the mine visit, directors met management and employees, independently the Companys business, board members toured the operation and received an overview of fide Beers made a number of visits to the Groups operations and the diamond industry.
Judy Dlamini, Byron Grote, throughout the year.
Site visits allow greater insight into Phuthuma Nhleko, Mphu Ramatlapeng and Anne Stevens challenges faced in the field, and facilitate better decision attended the mining course covering items such as making by the Board.
Those attending found NEDs fact finding trips that the session was most valuable and recommended that Jack Thompson, Ray ORourke and Jim Rutherford all future NEDs attend such a course to inform them further made site visits and gave feedback on their findings as on the complex nature of mining.
summarised in the table below.
01 Mogalakwena mine visit from right to left: Mark Cutifani, Jim Rutherford, Chris Griffith and Mogalakwena mine production manager David Malunga 02 Mining course for non-executive directors Phuthuma Nhleko 02 03 Mining course for non-executive directors Judy Dlamini 04 Mining course for non-executive directors from left to right: Mphu Ramatlapeng and Anne Stevens 01 04 03 Board site visits Site visits allow greater insight Location Topics discussed Key results findings into challenges Cerrejn Thermal Coal, Colombia P40 expansion and its implementation Familiarised with country and local faced in the including relocation of communities.
High quality of the staff on field, and site.
Cerrejns S&SD programmes facilitate better are commendable.
decision making Peace River Metallurgical Coal, Canada Expansion of the operation to world class Confirmation of operations potential.
by the Board status and review of environmental The ambitious strategy and vision for Jack Thompson management.
Non-executive Snap Lake fide Beers Diamonds, Canada Observation of joint AA and fide Beers The mine and plant are first rate and director internal S&SD audit.
Water quality and well run.
Good work being carried out community engagement.
by the community affairs group.
Dishaba Platinum, South Africa Review of working conditions for Greater appreciation of the challenges narrow reef mining and potential for faced including migrant labour and mechanisation at the mine face.
102 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
