Governance ENGAGEMENT Institutional investors COMMUNICATING WITH OUR INVESTORS During the year there were regular presentations to, and The Company maintains an active engagement with its key meetings with, institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, financial audiences, including institutional shareholders and continental Europe, the US and Asia Pacific to communicate sell-side analysts, as well as potential shareholders.
The the strategy and performance of Anglo American.
Executive Investor Relations department manages the interaction with directors as well as key executives, including business unit these audiences and regular presentations take place at the heads, host such presentations, which include seminars time of interim and final results as well as during the rest of for investors and analysts and one-on-one meetings.
An active programme of communication with Throughout the year, executive management also presents potential shareholders is also maintained.
A schedule of at industry conferences that are mainly organised by investor relations activities carried out during 2013 is shown investment banks for their institutional investor base.
During 2013, the chairman attended investor roadshows in Johannesburg and Cape Town.
The senior independent Board oversight director SID, works closely with the chairman to maintain Any significant concerns raised by a shareholder in relation his understanding of the issues and concerns of major to the Company and its affairs are communicated to the shareholders.
The chairman, SID and other NEDs are also Board.
The Board is briefed on a regular basis by the available to shareholders to discuss any matter they wish to Investor Relations department and analysts reports are raise.
The Companys website provides the latest news and circulated to the directors.
Feedback from meetings held historical financial information, details about forthcoming between executive management, or the Investor Relations events for shareholders and analysts, and other information department, and institutional shareholders is also regarding Anglo American.
Annual General Meeting The AGM gives an opportunity to shareholders to pose questions to the directors and senior executives of the Company.
Business to be discussed at the meeting is notified in advance to shareholders in the Notice of Meeting and covers matters such as the annual election of directors, appointment of auditors and dividend declaration.
The financial statements and the report of the directors and auditors are laid before the shareholders for approval.
Due to the enactment of the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013, changes have been made to the way shareholders approve the Directors remuneration report.
In 2014, shareholders will be asked to vote on the remuneration policy and implementation report and the vote on the remuneration policy will be binding.
At the Companys AGM in 2013, the chairman and CEO answered questions on: the Companys operations and the communities impacted by them: dividends: governance: silicosis: and the Pebble project.
A special resolution relating to the disapplication of pre-emption rights, did not achieve the necessary 75% majority and thus was not passed.
Although this is a routine resolution for public companies in the UK, South Africa based shareholders oppose such resolutions by UK companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange as a matter of course.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 105 GOVERNANCE ENGAGEMENT Investor relations activities timeline 2013 January 2013 08 January Call with Investors Sir John Parker and Mark Cutifani regarding appointment February 2013 15 February Anglo American full year 2012 results 19 21 February NY and Boston Roadshow Cynthia Carroll and Paulo Castellari-Porchia 25 February London Roadshow Ren Mdori 25 26 February SA Roadshow Peter Whitcutt 27 February 01 March SA Roadshow Ren Mdori March 2013 04 05 March London Roadshow Peter Whitcutt 07 March Citi Global Resources Conference Investor Relations 21 March London Roadshow Ren Mdori April 2013 03 April Investor Day meeting Investor Relations 04 05 April SA Roadshow Sir John Parker 12 April JP Morgan Cazenove Nordic Mining and Steel day Conference Investor Relations 19 April AGM May 2013 01 May UBS London Mining trip Investor Relations 14 16 May Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Mining Conference Mark Cutifani June 2013 05 June Investor group meeting Investor Relations 11 June Analyst and Investor Summer drinks hosted by Board, GMC and Exco 18 June SRI Analyst presentation 19 June RBC Conference Boston Ren Mdori 20 21 June NY, New Jersey, Baltimore, Philadelphia Roadshow Ren Mdori July 2013 26 July Interim results presentation 31 July 01 August SA Roadshow Mark Cutifani and Ren Mdori 31 July Sell-Side dinner Mark Cutifani and Ren Mdori August 2013 September 2013 03 04 September London Roadshow Mark Cutifani and Ren Mdori 05 September Edinburgh Roadshow Mark Cutifani and Ren Mdori 09 10 September London Roadshow Mark Cutifani and Ren Mdori 12 September Macquaries Iron Ore Corporate Day Investor Relations 16 20 September Boston, New York, Baltimore Roadshows Mark Cutifani and Ren Mdori October 2013 07 October Investor Group meeting Mark Cutifani 08 October Investor Group meeting Investor Relations 22 23 October SA Roadshow Paul Galloway Head of Investor Relations 30 October London Roadshow Paul Galloway November 2013 05 November Deutsche Bank BRICS conference Investor Relations 06 November Goldman Sachs Natural resources conference Mark Cutifani 12 November London Roadshow Paul Galloway 14 November Chicago Roadshow Mark Cutifani December 2013 12 December Analyst and Investor Strategy Day 17 December Edinburgh Roadshow Paul Galloway 106 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013
