Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 40 Board of directors Robert Swannell Marc Bolland Alan Stewart I Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer Appointed: Appointed: May 2010 Appointed: Oct 2010 Non-executive director in Experience: Marc Experience: Alan brings October 2010 and joined M&S from extensive corporate Chairman in January 2011.
Morrisons where, as finance and accounting Experience: Robert is a CEO, he successfully led experience in highly Chartered Accountant the development and competitive industries as and Barrister.
He implementation of its varied as retail, travel and possesses a wealth of knowledge of many different long-term strategy.
Prior to this, Marc built up banking.
Alan joined M&S from the aircraft leasing business sectors, banking and the City acquired significant consumer marketing and international company AWAS Aviation Capital, where he was over a 33 year career in investment banking and experience at Heineken NV, which he joined in Chief Financial Officer.
Alan previously spent nine extensive government and regulatory experience 1987.
He was appointed to Heinekens Board in years in investment banking at HSBC before from roles with BIS, the Take-Over Appeal Board 2001, with responsibility for global marketing and joining Thomas Cook in 1996, where he held a and the FCA.
His significant board experience the regions of Western Europe, the USA, Latin number of senior roles including Chief Executive of covers a diverse range of industries including retail, America and North Africa, becoming Chief Thomas Cook UK and Group Chief Financial private equity and real estate.
His leadership in the Operating Officer in 2005.
As CEO, Marc Officer of Thomas Cook Holdings.
Following his area of governance continues to promote robust continues to work with the Board in developing appointment as Group Finance Director of debate and drive a culture of openness in the and implementing our strategy to become an WH Smith plc in 2005, Alan played a central role in boardroom.
Robert was previously Senior international, multi-channel retailer.
improving the Groups financial performance.
He Independent Director of both British Land and 3i Other roles: Non-executive director of Manpower was previously a non-executive director of Games Group and Chairman of HMV.
Inc, USA, Honorary Vice President of UNICEF UK Workshop Group plc.
Other roles: Chairman of Governing body of and Director of the Consumer Goods Forum.
Rugby School, Trustee of Kew Foundation.
Committees: Nomination Committees: Nomination Chairman John Dixon Laura Wade-Gery Steve Rowe Executive Director, Executive Director, Executive Director, Food General Merchandise Multi-channel Appointed: Oct 2012 Appointed: Oct 2012 E-commerce Experience: Steve Experience: John has a Appointed: July 2011 joined M&S in 1989 and wide range of retail and Experience: Laura has progressed through a product experience considerable retail and variety of roles within acquired from across the consumer experience, store management business.
John began his including significant before moving to Head career with M&S in store management in 1986 e-commerce knowledge acquired from her Office in 1992.
He has acquired considerable before moving to Paris, where he spent three years previous roles at Tesco plc, including Chief experience from senior positions across the in various commercial roles at M&S European Executive Officer of Tesco.
Steve spent seven years in Menswear, stores and Paris Head Office.
He joined the UK Laura continues to drive the improvement and during which he held a number of roles including Head Office as a Food Buyer before progressing to modernisation of our e-commerce and Head of Merchandising, prior to his appointment Category Manager for Fresh Produce.
She was previously a as Director of Home in 2004.
He was appointed held a range of senior roles including Executive non-executive director of Trinity Mirror plc and has Director of Retail in 2008 and Director of Retail and Assistant to the Chief Executive, Director of M&S held a variety of roles at Gemini Consulting and E-commerce in 2009, briefly reverting to Director Direct and Director of Home.
He became Director Kleinwort Benson.
of Retail in 2011 before his appointment to the of Food in July 2008 and was appointed Executive Other roles: Trustee of Royal Opera House Board in 2012.
Director, Food in 2009, moving to Executive Covent Garden Limited, Member of the Other roles: Director, Strategic Board of the New Director, General Merchandise in October 2012.
Governments Digital Advisory Board and a Trustee West End Company.
Jan du Plessis Vindi Banga Miranda Curtis I I Senior Independent Non-executive director Non-executive director I Director Appointed: Sept 2011 Appointed: Feb 2012 Appointed: Experience: Vindi has Experience: Miranda Non-executive director in extensive consumer brings a wealth of 2008 and Senior brand knowledge and experience of the Independent Director in global business international consumer March 2012. experience, acquired and technology sectors Experience: Jan has over 33 years in senior and extensive knowledge considerable business and brand experience roles within the consumer goods industry at of the global broadband cable industry.
During having sat on the boards of several leading Unilever plc, including President of the Global Mirandas 20-year career with Liberty she led the companies across a range of industries.
Jan was Foods, Home and Personal Care businesses and companys investments in digital distribution and formerly Chairman of British American Tobacco as a member of the Executive Board.
Vindi was content operations across Continental Europe and plc and a non-executive director of Lloyds Banking previously Chairman and Managing Director of Asia-Pacific, most notably in Japan.
He was Group Finance Director of Hindustan Lever Limited.
He is the recipient of the previously a non-executive director of National Richemont, the Swiss luxury goods group, until Padma Bhushan, one of Indias highest civilian Express Group plc.
2004 and Chairman of RHM from 2005 until its honours.
Other roles: Chairman of Waterstones, takeover by Premier Foods in 2007.
Jan is a South Other roles: Partner at Clayton Dubilier & Rice, non-executive director of Liberty Global, board African Chartered Accountant.
non-executive director of Thomson Reuters and member of both the Institute for Government and Other roles: Chairman of Rio Tinto.
Maruti Suzuki India, Board member of B&M Retail the Royal Shakespeare Company, Deputy Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and a member of the Prime Minister of Indias Chairman of Garsington Opera and Vice Chairman Council of Trade and Industry.
of African girls education charity, Camfed.
Committees: Nomination, Remuneration Committees: Nomination, Remuneration I Independent Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 41 Board diversity This year we continued to make progress in shaping our Board for the future, ensuring that diversity, in its broadest definition, is at its heart.
From a practical perspective, our focus on diversity means we look hard at our mix of skills and experience.
New Board appointments will always seek to complement these as well as ensuring that a good balance of skill set, Martha Lane Fox Steven Sharp international experience and gender is maintained.
I Non-executive director Executive Director, Appointed: June 2007 Marketing Our policy on page 54 summarises our views and Experience: Martha Appointed: Nov 2005 sets out our ambitions with regard to diversity brings extensive Experience: After nine and what this means for our business, customers experience in the years at M&S Steve will be and stakeholders.
successful operation of retiring from the business.
online and consumer Therefore he will not be Board experience facing businesses.
Her standing for election this Retail input continues to challenge and influence the year and he will step down from the Board following development of our multi-channel strategy.
Steve will continue to work co-founded lastminute.
com in 1998, taking it public in the business as Creative Director until 28 February 93% in 2000 and selling it in 2005.
Steve has built up extensive marketing Consumer a CBE in 2013 and was appointed a crossbench experience over a career that began when he joined peer in the House of Lords in March 2013.
Bejam as a Marketing Manager in 1978.
He 100% Other roles: UK Digital Champion, chair of Go On progressed to the Argyll Group and moved to ASDA UK, MakieLab, Founders Forum for Good and the in 1987, where he became Marketing Director.
Finance Governments Digital Service Advisory Board.
Steves other senior marketing roles have included Co-founder and chair of Lucky Voice, nonthe Burton Group, Booker plc and Arcadia Group 36% executive director of MyDeco.
Prize for Fiction and founder of her own charitable Other roles: Non-executive director of Adnams E-commerce & technology foundation, Antigone.
plc, Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, Committees: Audit, Nomination The Marketing Society and The Royal Society of 29% Arts and a Visiting Professor of Glasgow Caledonian University.
International Andy Halford Jeremy Darroch I I Non-executive director Non-executive director Women on the board Appointed: Jan 2013 Appointed: 2006, Experience: Andy Jeremy will step down 21% brings invaluable from the board on international, consumer 19 June 2013.
Executive and digital experience, as Experience: Jeremy has well as a strong finance considerable expertise in 17% background.
He joined the consumer retail Non-executive Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director of Vodafone environment built up over a successful career at Limited, becoming Financial Director for some of the UKs most high profile organisations.
Vodafones Northern Europe, Middle East and A qualified Chartered Accountant, Jeremy spent 25% Africa Regions in 2001.
He was previously Chief 12 years in a range of roles at Proctor and Gamble, Executive recruitment Financial Officer of Verizon Wireless in the US and including European Finance Director for their Group Finance Director of East Midlands Electricity Healthcare division.
He was Group Finance Internally plc.
Andy is a former Chairman of The Hundred Director and Retail Director at Dixons Retail before Group of Finance Directors in the UK.
He is a his move to British Sky Broadcasting in 2004, 33% Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in where he was appointed Chief Financial Officer, England and Wales.
Jeremy will step Externally Other roles: Chief Financial Officer of Vodafone down from the Board of M&S on 19 June 2013.
Group plc and a member of the Board of Other roles: CEO of British Sky Broadcasting.
67% Representatives of the Verizon Wireless Committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination Partnership.
Non-executive Board tenure Committees: Audit Chairman Designate, 01 years Nomination 12% Steven Holliday Patrick BousquetI 13 years Non-executive director Chavanne Appointed: July 2004 Executive Director, Experience: Our Marketing and Business 38% longest serving Development 36 years non-executive director, Appointed: Following the Steve has extensive AGM on 9 July 2013 knowledge of corporate Experience: Patrick 25% business and has held a joined M&S in September 69 years variety of senior executive and boardroom level 2012 as Director of Strategy implementation and roles within the challenging utility and oil and gas Business Development and has played a key role in industries.
He spent 19 years with Exxon and was creating the new marketing strategy for 25% an executive director of British Borneo Oil and Gas Womenswear.
Patricks extensive experience of Women on the Board will increase to before joining National Grid as Group Director, UK the consumer goods industry was built up over a 23% following Jeremy Darrochs and Europe in 2001 and became CEO in 2006.
His career spanning more than 25 years, with 15 years departure on 19 June 2013. international experience includes a four year spell spent in senior global brand management in the US and he has developed business positions in London, Paris and New York.
He opportunities in countries including China, Brazil, joined Este Lauder in 1989 as Vice President and Amanda Mellor Australia and Japan.
General Manager of Aramis International and was Group Secretary and Other roles: Group CEO of National Grid: appointed to Lauders executive committee in Head of Corporate Chairman of both Board of Trustees of homeless 1998.
Patrick became Group President of the Governance charity Crisis and Business In The Communitys Este Lauder Companies in 2001, stepping down in Appointed: July 2009 Talent and Skills Leadership Team.
2008 to pursue opportunities in the internet and Other roles: Committees: Audit, Nomination, new technology fields.
Non-executive director Remuneration Chairman Other roles: Non-executive director of of Kier Group plc.
