Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 42 The Board in action Leadership The Board took the opportunity as part of its strategy days in 2012 13 to visit some key operations and projects around the business.
Strategy meeting at Castle Donington The board discussed progress of the new end-to-end supply chain and strategic IT programmes, toured the new distribution centre and reviewed the new Marks & Start Logistics initiative.
This was combined with a visit to our The Board devoted new Plan A sustainable store at Cheshire Oaks, where key elements of our new store design were in place.
In February considerable attention 2013 the Board met in Istanbul, Turkey to review and debate to the key strands of the progress of the International strategy, which included meeting strategy, including visits the Companys franchise partner in the region to understand more about their ambition and vision.
The Board also visited a to Cheshire Oaks, Castle number of local stores around Istanbul and toured the regional Donington and Istanbul.
sourcing hub to gain a more detailed understanding of the GM Robert Swannell supply chain.
Chairman Board Percentage meetings attended Name of Director A B The role of the Board Chairman The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long term Robert Swannell 11 11 100% success of the Company by creating and delivering sustainable Chief Executive shareholder value.
The Board seeks to achieve this through Marc Bolland 11 11 100% setting out its strategy, monitoring its strategic objectives and Executive directors providing oversight of its implementation by the management Kate Bostock resigned 30 September 2012 4 4 100% team.
In establishing and monitoring its strategy, the Board John Dixon 11 11 100% considers the impact of its decisions on wider stakeholders 1 Steve Rowe appointed 1 October 2012 8 8 100% including employees, suppliers and the environment.
2 Steven Sharp 11 10 90% A number of key decisions and matters are reserved for the Alan Stewart 11 11 100% Boards approval and are not delegated to management.
These 3 Laura Wade-Gery 11 10 90% include matters relating to the Groups strategy, approval of Non-executive directors major acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure, financial Vindi Banga 11 11 100% results and overseeing the Groups systems of internal control, 4 governance and risk management.
The Board delegates Miranda Curtis 11 10 90% certain responsibilities to its committees, to assist it in carrying Jeremy Darroch Retires 19 June 2013 11 11 100% out its functions of ensuring independent oversight.
These 5 Martha Lane Fox 11 10 90% committees are made up of independent non-executive Andy Halford appointed 1 January 2013 3 3 100% directors and play a key role in supporting the Board.
The Steven Holliday 11 11 100% Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Jan du Plessis 11 11 100% Committees provide updates on their activities during the year later in this report.
A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended.
B Number of meetings the director actually attended.
A full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision 1 Steve Rowe attended the Board meeting on 5 September 2012 as part along with the terms of reference of the Boards key of his induction ahead of his appointment to the Board on 1 October 2012. committees and the individual roles of the Board members can 2 Steven Sharp was unable to attend the Board meeting on 13 March be found in the Groups formal Governance Framework 2013 due to illness.
available to view online at marksandspencer.
com thecompany 3 Laura Wade-Gery was unable to attend the Board meeting on 20 June 2012 due to personal commitments.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
There were 11 4 Miranda Curtis was unable to attend the Board meeting on 2 May 2012 due to prior business commitments with Liberty Global.
scheduled meetings this year including two strategy meetings, 5 Martha Lane Fox attended all scheduled board meetings, however was where the non-executive directors contributed their expertise unable to attend an additional Board Conference Call on 23 November and independent oversight into the development of the strategy.
Sufficient time is given at the end of each Board meeting for the Monitoring risk Chairman to meet privately with the Senior Independent Director The Board has continued to debate and develop its and the non-executive directors to discuss any matters.
Details understanding of risk, risk appetite and tolerance, testing of individual Board directors attendance at meetings in 2012 13 how we can best maximise the opportunities for us to grow are set out in the table to the right.
Progress against strategy Protecting the business from operational and reputational risk is The Board spent a great deal of its time together in 2012 13 an essential part of the Boards role.
In line with our action plan, focused on monitoring its key strategic objectives around and supported by the Audit Committee, we have continued to International, Supply Chain and Multi-channel, reviewing drive a better understanding of the risks we face, further progress against the three-year plan, challenging key strategic developed and tested our tolerance and appetite for risk and investments and initiatives and reviewing the Companys capital ensured our Group Risk Profile continues to robustly reflect the structure.
The Board held two strategy awaydays during the business strategic objectives and opportunities.
We have year, to ensure it continued to challenge, test and develop its carried out a full review of internal controls, with a particular strategy of becoming an international multi-channel retailer.
The focus on processes and controls around confidential information first of the meetings was held in October 2012 and gave the following the leak of elements of the Q3 Interim Management Board the opportunity to visit the Companys new distribution Statement.
centre in Castle Donington, a key component of our Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 43 The Board in action Visit to Cheshire Oaks Store Strategy meeting in Istanbul The second part of the October strategy The Board met in Istanbul in February to day.
The Board discussed the review and discuss the International development of Plan A, the store strategy.
The directors met with our modernisation programme and held a franchise partners in the region, the session on the future of retail.
The Board regional sourcing team and visited a met with engineers and toured the store, one of our first Plan A number of stores in Istanbul.
The Board received presentations sustainable learning stores, to understand some of the specific on the regional sourcing strategy and key growth plans.
environmental initiatives undertaken in the build.
Oversight of succession Leadership Development Service, a personalised coaching Securing succession and developing leadership of future talent service, which recognises the specific needs of individuals and have once again been key considerations for the Board.
A addresses them through a tailored set of initiatives.
One such number of significant changes were made to the Board and initiative is the facilitating of non-executive roles outside M&S senior management during the year to bring further strength for key individuals who we believe would benefit from gaining and expertise to the executive team and ensure continued valuable Board experience.
Both new appointments to the Board Our MBA Leadership Programme, which aims to recruit and were made against objective criteria and in line with the develop talented MBA graduates from a range of international Boards diversity policy which we introduced last year.
We have business schools, towards senior management and leadership reported our progress against the policy on page 54.
Tailored roles in ambitious timescales, is proving an effective way of induction programmes were provided to both executive and developing talented international leaders with experience non-executive directors, details of which can be found on our across a range different industries.
A balance of developing our corporate website, marksandspencer.
internal talent while accessing key external talent where The development of the senior leadership team across the necessary is enabling us to build a stronger and more dynamic business has continued, with all of the Top 100 employees pool of leaders across the business.
having now completed our flagship leadership development programme, Lead to Succeed.
We have introduced a Board activity 2012 13 The Boards key priority this year was providing oversight of and challenge to the progress of its strategy to be an international multi-channel, retailer.
Key activities for the Board during the year included Leadership and employees Customers Strategy Discussed changes in the composition of the Debated and challenged performance in Two strategic awaydays: Board and its Committees: Womenswear.
Received and considered i October 2012: Reviewed investments in the Considered succession planning and approved updates on the new GM strategy and initiatives new supply chain programme, considered the the appointment of a new executive director across Womenswear.
future of multi-channel and shopping channels, and one new non-executive director.
Received regular updates from the Customer reviewed the store modernisation programme Reviewed employee engagement across the Insight Unit on the economic environment, the and the impact and future development of Plan business Annual Your Say survey and retail sector, competition and customers.
Included visits to Castle Donington quarterly pulse surveys: received updates on Considered and approved the launch of M&S distribution centre and Cheshire Oaks store.
initiatives taking place across the Company Bank current accounts and an in-store branch ii February 2013: Held in Istanbul, it provided including the BIG Idea, director presentations, network.
an opportunity for the Board to meet our roundtable director discussions and Women in franchise partner and review, discuss and Business forums.
Discussed and reviewed high potential talent Reviewed the new strategy in GM and the across the business, held non-executive structural changes made across Womenswear.
director lunches with successional and high Considered, scrutinised and approved the performing senior management.
Groups three year strategic and operating plan.
Discussed the ongoing store modernisation programme.
Debated the property strategy and the impact of multi-channel.
Reviewed the long term funding strategy for the DB pension scheme.
Governance Shareholder relations Considered, challenged and identified how we Discussed the Annual Independent Investor continue to manage and monitor risk appetite: Audit undertaken by Makinson Cowell.
Reviewed the formal evaluation of the Board Actively engaged our top 20 shareholders and and its Committees in 2013, facilitated investor bodies at our annual governance internally by the Group Secretary.
event in June 2012 in which the Board invited Considered, challenged and approved the discussion on matters of concern.
optimum capital structure for the business.
Discussed our International strategy with Trust and values Scrutinised and approved a number of capital investors in Istanbul.
Reviewed and promoted the business values spending projects.
Engaged retail shareholders at the AGM.
and culture ensuring that they remain relevant Reviewed and challenged the Groups Treasury Helped protect our shareholders by launching and core to the business.
Considered the impact of the European wide Provided input into the BIS Business, horsemeat scandal on the food industry and Innovation & Skills consultations on the new M&S.
remuneration and narrative reporting Received updates on the Plan A agenda and framework.
reviewed initiatives such as the launch of the Launched an independent investigation into Shwopping campaign.
the Q3 leak and reviewed and discussed the recommendations.
