Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 44 Effectiveness The annual Board effectiveness review provides a useful Continued to strengthen succession at both Board and senior opportunity for the Board to take a step back and reflect on management level.
Ensured the Board is comprised of a their collective and individual effectiveness, consider where diverse range of skills and experience, well positioned to improvements can be made and chart progress.
This year the challenge and develop the strategy.
The appointment of Board evaluation was facilitated internally between January and Andy Halford to the Board as a non-executive director and March 2013, by our Group Secretary and Head of Corporate the changes made to the executive team, including the Governance, who has significant insight into both the day-toappointment of Steve Rowe to the Board, have been key day and strategic workings of the Board.
This years internal appointments: evaluation follows two years in which an independent externally Engaged with senior management and high potential facilitated Board review has taken place.
individuals throughout the year, facilitated through a series of lunches, strategy and investor days: Independence of directors Engaged institutional shareholders throughout the year.
Our annual governance event held in June 2012 was well The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive attended by both major shareholders and investor bodies.
directors as part of the annual Board effectiveness review.
An investor event, addressing our international strategy, was The non-executive directors bring a strong independent held in Istanbul in February 2013 and was also well attended: oversight to the Board and following this years review the Ensured director inductions continued to be full and thorough Board considers that all of the non-executive directors and offer the opportunity to dive into key parts of the continue to demonstrate their independence.
Biographical business: details of each director can be found on pages 40 to 41.
Continued to drive an understanding of the Boards risk The Chairman is committed to ensuring the Board is made tolerance and appetite: up of a majority of independent non-executive directors who Made significant progress on planning the long-term objectively challenge management, balanced against the framework for Board discussion, allowing more time for fuller, need to ensure continuity on the Board.
In December 2012 more challenging and strategic debate.
we announced that Jeremy Darroch will step down in June 2013 having served seven years on the Board.
Action Plan 2013 14 Andy Halford was appointed to the Board on 1 January as a The insights gathered from the Board review have highlighted non-executive director and Chairman designate of the Audit some opportunities which have resulted in a clear action plan Committee.
The Board strongly believes that it is essential for the year ahead.
The actions address the key areas of to ensure continuity of corporate knowledge and experience succession, Board oversight and reflection, risk management to complement and support the new skills and experience and information management.
brought to the Board by those directors appointed over the last two years.
The Board agreed that Steven Holliday, who During the year the Board is committed to: will have served on the Board for nine years in July 2013, Continue our work on succession planning with greater stands for re-election for an additional year at the 2013 focus on high potential individuals and their development in AGM.
Steves independence has been subject to particular the business, especially below director level: scrutiny: his detailed knowledge and association with the Review how we can continue to benefit from the extensive Group assists him in effectively challenging management and and diverse experience of our non-executive directors: his length of service, when taken in the context of the Group Allow for greater review and reflection on the quality of past as a whole, enhances his effectiveness as a non-executive decisions: director.
As a result, the Board believes that Steve remains Given our changing risk profile as we become a leading, independent in character and judgement.
international multi-channel retailer, ensure appropriate How did we approach the Board and Committee Review?
challenge and debate around risk and approach to risk: In line with previous years, we took the view that a detailed and Board papers: continue to review our information focused one-to-one discussion, conducted in person with each management, content and balance of papers: director was the most effective way to facilitate a constructive Meetings: consider the balance and content of our agendas and meaningful conversation.
The directors were asked their to allow greater time for open debate.
views on a range of subjects including: Board composition and the role of the Board Director induction Board leadership and culture On joining the M&S Board a full, formal and tailored induction Monitoring of Company performance programme is arranged for directors including access to all Corporate governance parts of the business and an opportunity to meet major The facilitation of the meetings particularly around scope of shareholders.
agendas, quality of papers, degree of challenge and debate.
During the year we appointed Steve Rowe and Andy Halford to The Senior Independent Director meets with the non-executive the Board.
Steve was appointed Executive Director, Food having directors at least once a year to review the Chairmans worked across a significant part of the business over a 23 year performance.
The Senior Independent Director then provides career at M&S.
Steves induction was focused specifically on feedback to the Chairman as appropriate.
the Board process, including his duties, responsibilities and obligations as a director.
Andy Halfords appointment as a How are we progressing?
non-executive director and Chairman designate of the Audit It was clear from the Board review that good progress has Committee was tailored specifically around learning the been made against the actions the Board set itself last year: business, its operations, its key markets and risks.
