Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 50 Engagement continued AGM Investor Relations app for the iPad The AGM provides the Board with the opportunity to meet As new media evolves we try to tailor our communication and engage directly with our shareholders, particularly our platforms accordingly.
With our Investor Relations private shareholders.
The 2012 AGM was held on Tuesday 10 app you can view our results and trading statements, July, the Board and the senior management were available to regulatory news announcements, interviews with directors, speak to before the meeting and the Chairman and share price information and our TV marketing campaigns Committee Chairmen answered shareholder questions all in one place.
during the formal part of the meeting, all resolutions were To download the app, go to the Investor passed with votes ranging from 86.2% to 99.76%.
com thecompany and follow the link.
This years AGM will be held at Wembley Stadium in London Those with a QR reader app can use on Tuesday 9 July 2013.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the the link below.
schedule for the day and each of the resolutions being proposed at the meeting.
A copy of the Notice can be downloaded at marksandspencer.
Once again the meeting will be webcast live and a recording of the meeting available on our website after the event.
Shareholders unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to vote in advance of the meeting, online at sharevote.
co. uk or by using the proxy card sent with the Notice of Meeting.
Audit Committee Chairmans overview business career and recent and relevant financial experience We remain focused on from his role as Chief Financial Officer at Vodafone.
I leave the Committee in good hands.
the audit assurance and risk process to External Auditor The Committee recommended the reappointment of support our longer term  LLP PwC for 2013 14.
their independence, the objectivity of the external audit and the Jeremy Darroch effectiveness of the audit process is safeguarded and remains Audit Committee Chairman strong.
This is displayed through their robust internal processes, their continuing challenge, their focused reporting and their discussions with both management and the Audit Committee.
Last year the Committees activities involved a strategic reappraisal of the internal audit assurance plan, continued We judge PwC through the quality of their audit findings, challenge of the Group risk process and tolerance, an internal managements response and stakeholder feedback.
No audit effectiveness review, continued understanding of key decisions are taken by PwC over the design of internal controls business areas and their associated risks, and improving and they do not perform the role of management as part of any ongoing Committee learning.
Our progress is outlined in further of the work they undertake.
detail on the following page.
Their audit and non-audit fees are set, monitored and reviewed The Committee has closely monitored the strategic progress of throughout the year see note 4 on page 87.
We ensure that the business against the plan set out in 2010.
In line with last our Auditor engagement policy, which is reviewed annually and year, the Committee continued its usual programme of disclosed on our website marksandspencer.
com thecompany, receiving presentations from across the business to better is adhered to when non audit work is commissioned.
This understand key elements of the strategic plan, the associated policy has been further strengthened in the 2012 13 financial risks and how these are being mitigated.
challenging discussions where the Committee members The Committee recognises that this year the non audit fees are contribute from their own experiences.
A brief overview of higher than in previous years.
This is predominantly due to two these discussions is provided on the following page.
significant projects one HR-related and the other to advise in As Robert Swannell referenced in his overview, my time as a the development of our integrated controls framework to non-executive director of M&S is coming to an end and after six document the processes and controls across M&S core years of service I will step down from the Board on 19 June business activities.
In both instances other providers were 2013 and Andy Halford will take over as Chairman of the Audit considered.
However, it was felt that PwC were best positioned Committee.
Andy brings a wealth of knowledge from his Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 51 to provide the services required given their deep understanding To maintain the objectivity of the audit process M&S actively of the business, its culture, and strategy, thus providing better supports audit partner rotation Stuart Watson was appointed cost effectiveness without compromising their independence.
as lead Audit partner in 2008 09 and has now come to the end This aside, the Committee is very mindful that these were of his tenure with M&S.
Stuart will be succeeded by Paul exceptional items and aim to maintain non audit fees at a lower Cragg.
The Committee recognises that length of tenure of auditors has Tenure of Auditor been a topic of much debate.
It notes that the UK Governance PwC and its predecessor firms have been the Auditor for M&S Code is being updated, adding a requirement that the external since the Company first listed on the London Stock Exchange Audit contract be put out to tender at least every ten years.
In in 1926 a breakdown of how our Auditors have evolved is view of this, the Committee intends to conduct a tender of the provided in the governance section of our corporate website.
Audit contract during the course of the coming year.
Effectiveness of the Audit Committee The Board is satisfied that Jeremy Darroch, Andy Halford and stakeholders to discuss processes and procedures.
A Jan du Plessis have recent and relevant financial experience.
selection of audits were also reviewed and discussed.
The output from this review has already begun to shape our Who is on our Committee?
planning for 2013 14: Percentage discussed internal financial controls, changes in accounting of meetings policies and impact on our financial statements Name of Director From A B attended discussed other areas of compliance, including GSCOP, Jeremy Darroch 1 Sept 2006 Bribery Act, M&S Code of Ethics and Behaviours and Committee Chairman retiring 19 June 2013 5 5 100% Whistleblowing: 2 Andy Halford 1 Jan 2013 2 2 100% discussed the learning requirements of the Committee as 1 Steven Holliday 15 July 2004 5 4 80% part of the independent review: Martha Lane Fox 1 June 2007 5 5 100% continued to receive updates from executives managing key areas of the business, including Plan A, Business Continuity, Jan du Plessis 1 Nov 2008 5 5 100% Customer Services, EDC NDC, HR Shared Services, Food A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended B Number of meetings the director actually attended Pricing and Promotions and Multi-channel.
These now 1 Steven Holliday was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 5 November 2012 due account for around a quarter of the time allocated to the to prior business commitments with National Grid.
meetings: 2 Andy Halford will become Committee Chairman following Jeremys departure.
debated our risk profile, classification and management of key risks, identification of new emerging risks and movement What has the Committee done during the year?
in risk tolerance as we better manage existing risks: and The Committees performance is reviewed each year as part discussed the outcomes of our annual effectiveness review.
of its Board Effectiveness review.
Areas for improvement are highlighted, discussed by the Committee, and included as part What is the action plan for 2013 14?
of an action plan for the coming year.
During the year the Looking ahead the Committee believes it is important to Committee: remain focused on the audit, assurance and risk process within the business, along with oversight of financial and other discussed the upcoming changes to the Governance Code regulatory requirements.
The actions for 2013 14 are focused undertook a strategic reappraisal of our internal audit and around: assurance plan to ensure greater alignment with the Companys strategic plan conduct a tender of our Audit contract: undertook an independent review of our internal audit review of three-year assurance plan, design and scope: effectiveness, in line with the Chartered Institute of Internal risk profile and new emerging risks: Audit.
The review was performed by RSM Tenon.
It specific risk presentations on key business areas: and comprised a series of one-to-one interviews with Committee implementing the key findings from the RSM Tenon review of members and interview and group workshops with internal the internal audit function, including a revised Audit Charter.
Committee Updates Detailed updates from the business units were introduced three Business continuity years ago.
These updates are fully embedded as fixed agenda reviewed levels of preparedness for crisis management and items for each meeting, with one or more areas represented.
business recovery both nationally and internationally: This year these topics covered: reviewed changes to the out of hours call out process: received updates on significant national and international EDC NDC incidents ranging from fires, flooding and adverse weather updated on the new structure to provide a faster, more agile to medical evacuation, power grid failure and country-specific and lower cost service: national security incidents: and updated on the strategy to consolidate our network, provide discussed enhancement of the Travel Safe programme and greater capacity, improve availability to stores and service the third party integration into the Employee Travel Tracker.
levels to M&S Direct: and reviewed the key risks and mitigating actions around implementation, testing and launch of the EDC NDC.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 52 Audit Committee continued Plan A Annual HR shared services reviewed progress made over the last year and the business updated on the new people system integration, including ongoing objectives.
The number of objectives has been online payslips, salary exchange, centralised HR, ways of increased from 100 to 180, 139 of these have now been working and staff roster management: achieved: reviewed target completion dates and opportunities regarding discussed commitments unlikely to be achieved and the our international operations: external factors impacting these: reviewed the internal audit report regarding implementation discussed the business improvements in fuel efficiency and and embedding of the new systems within both head office the milestones delivered to become Carbon Neutral: and store environments: and received an update on the UK sustainable learning stores, discussed the positive metrics and risk planning for the new including Cheshire Oaks: people system project, especially given the significant number reviewed the effectiveness of engaging consumers in Plan A: of individual transactions involved.
updated on our collaboration with the World Economic Forum WEF consumer industries group, and provided an overview Customer services on how we are actively involved in re-framing the consumer received an overview of the customer experience, the agenda around sustainable consumption: operating model, service style and customer contact discussed progress of the External Sustainable Retail management Advisory Board and its new appointments Prof. Yunis and updated on improvements in service levels, with particular Joanna Lumley : and focus on furniture delivery where the supplier, the packaging updated on the significant improvement in our clothing and the communication had all been changed resulting in a recycling programme Shwopping and the engagement of substantial reduction in refunds in this area: Joanna Lumley as our global ambassador for Plan A. reviewed risks and mitigating actions including training, clear reporting and measurement and escalation procedures: and Multi-channel discussed future plans with particular focus on support for the updated on the Multi-channel Foundation Programme, the Multi-channel Foundation Programme.
complexities of integrating legacy systems and the overriding Food pricing and promotions focus on the customer and the user experience through updated on the changes to the Food group covering business design and build process: guidelines, processes and methods of monitoring: explored how the IT Strategy was educating the business in updated on the progress of the Simply M&S range introduced the practicalities of multi-channel trading: in May 2012: updated on the key risks to the project, security and the updated on the promotional strategy, brand impact and testing process and received an overview of how these are customer perceptions: being managed: reviewed the findings of the internal audit report: and updated on how the project compares to competitor and discussed overall food safety and product quality and the market activity: and development of healthy food ranges, while ensuring value is debated operating concerns with the current platform.
Assurance On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the identified in the review for 2012 13.
Where areas for effectiveness of the Groups: improvement were identified, processes are in place to ensure that the necessary action is taken and that progress is systems of internal control, covering all material controls, monitored.
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, primarily through approving the Furthermore, the Committee considers the Company has internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews of the adopted appropriate accounting policies and where annual and half year financial statements and a review of the necessary, made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The nature, scope and reports of external audit: Committee also believes that this Annual report and accounts management of risk by reviewing evidence of risk provides the information necessary for shareholders to assessment activity and an internal audit report on the assess the Companys performance, business model and process: and strategy.
action taken or to be taken to manage critical risks or to The key features of the Groups internal control and risk remedy any control failings or weaknesses identified.
management systems that ensure the accuracy and reliability The Audit Committee has completed its review of the of financial reporting include: clearly defined lines of effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control during accountability and delegation of authority, policies and the year and up to the date of this Annual Report, in procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, accordance with the requirements of the revised Turnbull preparing consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, project Guidance on Internal Control, published by the FRC.
It governance and information security, and the Groups Code confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were of Ethics and Behaviours.
