Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 49 Engagement Robert Swannell Chairman Makinson Cowell, the capital markets advisory firm again Engaging with our shareholders was a key action for the Board carried out our annual investor audit of major investors views in 2012 13.
We are very keen to understand the views of all our on the Companys management and performance.
This report stakeholders and ensure open dialogue throughout the year, provides an independent view and is presented and discussed not just ahead of the AGM season.
We had another full agenda in depth by the Board each year ahead of the AGM.
Marc Bolland, Alan Stewart and our Investor Amanda Mellor Group Secretary Relations team met with representatives from over 300 During the year we met and had a number of conversations investment institutions, answering their questions and keeping with investors and representatives on a variety of topics.
I also them updated on our performance and plans.
The level of gave presentations and lectures on the way M&S approaches engagement ranged from one-on-one meetings to group governance and stewardship to industry contacts, other presentations and investor conference calls following our company secretariat teams and to students of the Leeds results announcements.
In addition we held a number of Business School.
The Company has responded to a number of investor days.
BIS consultations on the changing remuneration and reporting framework, ensuring that we help shape good regulation and Governance event 2012 legislation.
The Board is committed to ensuring that we communicate Private shareholders continue to represent 95% of the effectively with our shareholders.
We are regularly in contact shareholdings on our share register.
We value their opinions with our institutional shareholders and our annual and continue to actively engage with them.
We circulate governance event held at our head office in June 2012 shareholder topics cards with our Notice of Meeting to ensure provided an opportunity to meet a significant number of our that the views of those shareholders unable to attend our AGM largest investors, representatives from the influential investor are heard.
Those returned are summarised, presented to the advisory companies and key industry governance specialists.
Board and senior management and the Chairman addresses The 2012 event was attended by Robert Swannell, Chairman, the top three topics at the meeting.
Many are responded to Jan du Plessis, Senior Independent Director, Jeremy directly.
Shareholders can also email the Chairman with their Darroch, Chairman of our Audit Committee, Steven Holliday, comments, write to us or telephone our helpline.
Chairman of our Remuneration Committee and Mike Barry, We continue our efforts to drive our private shareholders to our Head of Sustainable Business.
The event is structured become more informed investors.
A wealth of information is around presentations on: available on our website and our Investor Relations iPad app The Board available from the Apple App store throughout the year.
Our Audit and Risk trading statements and financial results are also emailed to Remuneration shareholders that have provided us with email addresses and Plan A requested to receive electronic communication.
Questions and Answers For those with smartphones, we have again used quick The overriding objective of the meeting is to provide investors response QR codes on our voting forms and Notice of and their governance specialists with an insight into the key Meeting.
These provide the reader with swift access to the focus and considerations of the Board and its committees director biographies on our website.
and to better understand the governance measures We recognise that not all of our shareholders are online, and operating across the business.
that the full Annual Report or Annual Review may provide more In August investors were invited to the opening of our most information than they require.
We therefore suggest they sustainable store at Cheshire Oaks: in October they were given receive our smaller M&S At a Glance booklet, published with a focused update on our progress to become an international the private investor in mind.
We are keen to communicate that multi-channel retailer and in February 2013 in Istanbul they had we are listening to what our shareholders and customers are the opportunity to better understand our International telling us.
We have therefore sent all shareholders a operations and sourcing strategies.
Investors, analysts and supplementary booklet which provides some detail of the press attended the Istanbul event where they received a significant changes that we have been making across our number of presentations and visited some of the flagship stores clothing departments.
This booklet also gives a preview of in the city.
All presentations from these events are available to some of our much anticipated Autumn collection and a view at marksandspencer.
discount voucher to use in store from 25 July 2013.
In June 2012 I hosted the second of our now annual We remain committed to our lost shareholder programme and Governance Days, details of the event are set out above.
our search agent, ProSearch, continues to seek out those that Outside of this I also met with a number of investors and have failed to keep their details up to date.
There have been industry representatives to answer their questions and better some great success stories and on many occasions individuals understand their policies, concerns and thinking on have also become aware of lost shareholdings in other governance and voting.
I also look to institutions to disclose companies, not just M&S.
However, despite all our efforts there details of how they voted at AGMs on their websites.
are some instances where we are unable to find the Furthermore, we welcome engagement with institutions as the shareholder: at that stage our share forfeiture programme Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code continues to steps in to utilise these funds and use them for good causes.
