Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 71 Pensions governance The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme the skill gaps and specific committee roles.
The majority of the Scheme for employees with an appointment date prior to Trustee Board members hold the Pensions Management 1 April 2002.
The results of the triennial actuarial valuation of the Scheme as All advisers, investment managers and suppliers are appointed at 31 March 2012 revealed a deficit of 290m.
This represents a through a rigorous tender process.
They are monitored via substantial reduction in deficit from 1.3bn as at 31 March 2009. quarterly reports and periodic meetings and there is also a rolling programme of both informal and formal adviser reviews.
The assets of the pension scheme, which are held under trust separately from those of the Group, are managed by the Board The Scheme is a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible of the Pension Trust Trustee Board.
The Trustee Board has Investment and the Trustee has partnered with a specialist three main committees: Management and Governance, engagement service, Hermes Equity Ownership Services Investment and Actuarial Valuation.
EOS, to exercise its global equity voting rights in accordance with a detailed Trustee policy, which addresses a range of During the year the size of the Trustee Board reduced from governance, social and environmental issues.
EOS has also 12 to nine members.
The Trustee Board is chaired by Graham enhanced the Trustees stewardship and governance oversight Oakley, who commenced a five-year term in April 2011, having of investee companies by engaging with companies, on a been a member of the Board since 2000.
The Trustee Board global basis, where management is considered not to be includes two independent directors plus three member acting in the best long-term interests of investors.
The results of representatives who are appointed through a selection process these voting and engagement activities are published quarterly which embeds efficient succession rotation planning.
The Scheme is also a signatory to the the year the Board has been recognised through various Financial Reporting Councils UK Stewardship Code.
external awards including those for investment strategy and risk management.
During 2012 all remaining DC assets in respect of employees joining on or after 1 April 2002 were transferred to the new The Trustee Board has a business plan against which progress Master Trust arrangement with Legal and General.
is measured on an ongoing basis in a similar approach to the Group Board.
The Trustee Board also maintains a risk register and an associated action plan, a conflicts of interest policy, plus a register and a code of ethics, all of which are reviewed regularly.
Each Trustee Board Director has an individual training plan, which is based on the Pension Regulators Trustee Knowledge and Understanding requirements and tailored to address any
