Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 53 Nomination Committee Chairmans overview management roles, most recently as Head of Retail.
Steves We have secured appointment demonstrates progress against the Committees focus on succession and development of internal talent below important appointments Board level.
In addition Steven Holliday has agreed to remain and overseen a number on the Board for a further year to ensure continuity.
On 21 May of changes to the we announced that Steven Sharp, Executive Director, Marketing will be retiring from business.
He will step down from composition of the Board.
the Board at the 2013 AGM and will continue to work in the Robert Swannell business as Creative Director until 28 February 2014.
Patrick Chairman Bousquet-Chavanne will take over responsibility for marketing and will be put forward for election to the Board as Executive Chairmans Overview Director, Marketing and Business Development at the 2013 The Committee has focused on strengthening, broadening, AGM.
balancing and understanding the range of skills, experience In conjunction with these appointments, we have also reviewed and diversity on the Board, its Committees and below our Committee composition during the year, recommending Board level.
the appointment of Andy Halford as a member of both the This year we have secured important appointments and Nomination and Audit Committees overseen a number of changes to the composition of the The lack of women on boards remains a significant focus for Board.
Andy Halford joined the Board in January as a noncompanies and regulators around the world.
We are committed executive director to succeed Jeremy Darroch as Chairman of to increasing the participation of women across all levels of our the Audit Committee when he steps down from the Board on business, not least the Board, however, we continue to view 19 June 2013.
John Dixon, formerly Executive Director, Food diversity in its broadest sense, and seek to ensure that this was appointed to take charge of General Merchandise, remains a significant feature of our Board.
We have made following Kate Bostocks departure from the Company in progress against many of the objectives which we set out in September 2012.
Steve Rowe was appointed to the Board to our Board diversity policy which we published for the first time succeed John as Executive Director, Food.
Prior to his in last years Annual Report.
We have reported against each of appointment to the Board, Steve had held a number of senior these objectives on page 54. Who is on our Committee?
The Committee is made up of a majority of independent supporting the development of talent across the business.
non-executive directors, details of its membership are set out We have also reviewed the skill set and level of ongoing below.
Its terms of reference are available to view on our training for all directors.
During the year the Committee: website at marksandspencer.
recommended the appointments of Steve Rowe and Andy Percentage Halford to the Board and John Dixons appointment as of meetings Executive Director, General Merchandise: Name of Director From A B attended discussed the appointment renewal for Martha Lane Fox Robert Swannell and Steven Holliday.
Committee Chairman 4 October 2010 4 4 100% undertook a review of the Board and Committee composition Marc Bolland 1 May 2010 4 4 100% in advance of and following the appointment of the new Vindi Banga 3 September 2011 4 4 100% executive and non-executive directors and considered the 1 Miranda Curtis 3 February 2012 4 3 75% retirement and tenure of existing directors: Jeremy Darroch reviewed our progress against our stated diversity policy resigns 19 June 2013 1 February 2006 4 2 50% objectives, and highlighted where further action is required: reviewed ongoing training and knowledge of all directors: Martha Lane Fox 1 June 2007 4 4 100% reviewed results of the Committees evaluation as part of our Andy Halford appointed annual Board review process.
Steven Holliday 4 4 100% continue to refresh and evolve the non-executive directors on Jan du Plessis 1 November 2008 4 4 100% the Board and ensure appropriate skills and diverse A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended experience: B Number of meetings the director actually attended continue to support succession of the executive directors 1 Miranda Curtis was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 2 May 2012 due to prior business commitments with Liberty Global.
and gain greater exposure to high potential talent across the 2 Jeremy Darroch was unable to attend two Committee meetings due to organisation: prior business commitments.
review the size of the Board to ensure continued efficient and effective debate: What has the Committee done during the year?
continue to review ongoing inductions, training and This year, in line with our 2012 13 action plan, the Committee knowledge of all directors.
spent a significant amount of time discussing succession and development of the executive director team whilst also Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 54 Nomination Committee continued Only engage executive search firms who have signed up Board diversity policy Last year we published our first Board diversity policy, which to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity set out our targets and objectives to ensure that diversity, in its and best practice broadest sense, remains a central feature of the Board.
This The Board supports the aims of the seven principles of the year, in line with best practice, we are reporting against each of Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender the objectives in the policy: diversity.
We only engage executive search firms who are signatories to this code.
We continued to work closely with JCA Maintain a level of at least 30% female directors on the during the year, who are committed to supporting us in increasing Board over the short to medium term the representation of women on the Board.
The Board confirms The number of women on the Board has fallen since last year that JCA has no other connection with the Company.
from 31% to 21%, below the 30% target we set ourselves.
This reduction resulted from the departure of Kate Bostock and the Report annually against these objectives and other subsequent appointments to the Board of Steve Rowe as initiatives taking place within the Company which Executive Director, Food and Andy Halford as a non-executive promote gender and other forms of diversity director.
However, the figure will increase to 23% following the The Board remains committed to reporting against the objectives in the Policy.
A number of business wide initiatives departure of Jeremy Darroch on 19 June 2013.
A number of have aimed at promoting gender and other forms of diversity: women were shortlisted and interviewed for the non-executive director position and we remain committed to increasing the promoted diversity in all of its forms through the Companys representation of women on the Board.
However, all appointments Diversity Forum, which meets quarterly.
It reviews diversity will continue to be based on merit, measured against objective across the business, establishes internal measures and criteria and the skills and experience the individual offers.
targets and sets future challenges currently looking at the pipeline of women through the business : Assist the development of a pipeline of high-calibre candidates by encouraging a broad range of senior hosted a series of Womens Breakfasts.
Laura Wade-Gery individuals within the business to take on additional hosted a roundtable discussion on women in business as part roles to gain valuable board experience of International Womens Day: A number of internal initiatives are underway to actively launched MBA Leadership Programme to recruit and develop develop, nurture and strengthen a pipeline of talent through the talented MBA graduates from international business schools: business, including: pioneered flexible working policies.
M&S champions a culture where some of the most senior employees work flexibly.
For a comprehensive talent review presented to the Board annually: example Belinda Earl, recently appointed as Style Director the introduction of our internal Leadership Development works a 2 3 day week: Service, which partners key talent across the business and work with our suppliers across the globe to ensure women assists them in focusing and broadening their skill sets and are treated fairly and equally: experience for future opportunities.
Initiatives include assisting proactively encourage an inclusive culture through the Marks individuals to gain valuable board experience through & Start initiatives, including the most recent Marks & Start non-executive roles outside M&S, primarily with NHS Trusts: Logistics programme, which works specifically to get disabled access to International Business School training: people into the workforce at our distribution centres.
executive coaching schemes: senior management sponsored schemes: Report annually on the outcome of the Board non-executive director mentor schemes.
evaluation, the composition and structure of the Board as well as any issues and challenges the Board is facing Consider candidates for appointment as non-executive when considering the diverse make-up of the Company directors from a wider pool, including those with little or We continue to regard the Board and Committee evaluation no listed company board experience process as an important means of monitoring our progress as The Nomination Committee works closely with our executive a Board.
Further details on how we have progressed during the search agency, JCA, in drawing up long and short lists of year and details of the 2013 14 Action Plan can be found on candidates who offer a full range of experience and skills.
We continue to work closely on the succession of executive directors, identifying the high-calibre talent across the In searching for our most recent non-executive director, we business.
We have also continued the process of progressively identified and interviewed a wide and diverse selection of refreshing the make-up of the non-executive directors, both vital candidates, many of whom were women.
All candidates were elements in enhancing the Boards diversity.
measured against our agreed criteria, which in this case included the necessary skills and experience to succeed The Board diversity policy helps to keep diversity at the front of Jeremy Darroch as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
the Boards mind when considering its composition, whilst also driving initiatives across the business.
As we continue to pursue Ensure long lists of potential non-executive directors our international strategy it is ever more important to ensure the include 50% female candidates Board has international experience and outlook and that the The Board is committed to ensure high performing women management is reflective of the customers and communities achieve greater exposure to the nomination committees of which we serve.
Much is talked about gender diversity and we FTSE 100 companies, which is why we have committed to remain committed to achieving our target of 30% female ensuring that all of our non-executive director long lists in the representation on the Board in the short to medium term.
The short to medium term include 50% female candidates.
During development of a strong and diverse pipeline of senior the year, one independent non-executive director was management including measures to assist those talented appointed to the Board.
As part of that process and in women throughout the business to rise to the highest levels conjunction with our executive search firm we ensured that at continues to be an area on which the Board is focused.
least 50% of the candidates on the long list were women.
