Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Changing new Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 45 Accountability We believe that effective risk management is critical to the Gross risk assessed Net risk assessed Risk identi cation G N before mitigation after mitigation achievement of our strategic objectives and the long-term Risks highlighted sustainable growth of our business.
and documented in a centrally managed G G What is our approach to risk management?
Risk Register G The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is N effectively managed across the Group and, on behalf of the Risk assessment G G Board, the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Risks assessed in terms of likelihood Group Risk Process.
of occurrence and potential impact on Risks are reviewed by all business areas on a half-yearly basis N N N the Group and measured against a defined set of likelihood and impact criteria.
This is captured in consistent reporting formats, Risk mitigation enabling Group Risk to consolidate the risk information and N summarise the key risks in the form of the Group Risk Profile.
Required actions are agreed and assigned, Our Executive Board discusses the Group Risk Profile ahead of with target deadlines it being submitted to the Group Board for final approval.
Minor Moderate Major Critical and quarterly status updates To ensure our risk process drives improvement across the IMPACT business, the Executive Board monitors the ongoing status and Our principal risks and uncertainties progress of action plans against key risks on a quarterly basis.
As with any business, we face risks and uncertainties on a daily Risk remains an important consideration in all strategic basis.
It is the effective management of these that places us in decision-making at Board level, including debate on risk a better position to be able to achieve our strategic objectives tolerance and appetite.
and to embrace opportunities as they arise.
Key areas of focus To achieve a holistic view of the risks facing our business, both We continue to drive improvements to our risk management now and in the future, we consider those that are: process and the quality of risk information generated, whilst external to our business: at the same time maintaining a simple and practical core to our day-to-day operation: approach.
related to business change activity: and those that could emerge in the future.
During the year we have focused on a number of key areas: 1.
Evolving risk descriptions The risk radar below maps our principal risks against these As time progresses, the nature of some Group risks is categories.
This tool is also used to facilitate wider Executive evolving.
To ensure we continue to address the most and Board discussions on risk, including potential emerging important risks facing the Group at this point in time we have risks as discussed on page 48. updated a number of risk titles and descriptions.
New titles Core external risk External Emerging areas are assigned to GM product 2012: Our customers and Food safety and integrity 2012: Food safety.
New descriptions are in place for International and Our people.
Action plans for key risks outlook competitor environment We continue to assess whether sufficient additional mitigating activities are underway to reduce the net risk position of the Groups key risks.
By considering net risk on Omni-channel both a one year and three year horizon, we are able to identify when mitigating activities will result in a tangible risk reduction.
We also continue to review the ongoing Distribution International centre appropriateness of actions to ensure they are as relevant, GM product restructure timely and measurable as possible.
Programme Our people IT change and workstream 3.
Influence of risk tolerance management Food safety Risk tolerance and appetite are important considerations and integrity GM stock in strategic decision-making at Board level.
We also Multi-channel management recognise the value in applying the concept of risk tolerance in discussions across all levels of the organisation.
It is Core operations Internal Business change especially beneficial when determining the nature of mitigating activities and their role in addressing risk likelihood Overleaf are details of our principal risks and the mitigating or impact.
activities in place to address them.
It is recognised that the Group is exposed to a number of risks, wider than those listed.
However, a conscious effort has been made to disclose those of greatest importance to the business at this moment in time and those that have been the subject of debate at recent Board or Audit Committee meetings.
Stable known LIKELIHOOD Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 46 Accountability continued Description Mitigating activities Finance: We continue to focus on maintaining a strong financial position that supports improvements to our business Economic outlook Proactive management of costs Economic conditions worsen or do not improve, Regular review of customer feedback and marketplace impacting our ability to deliver the plan positioning As consumers disposable incomes come under pressure Continued focus on value proposition in the context of a from price inflation and government austerity measures, balanced product offer, including market leading innovation trading conditions continue to remain a challenge for our Ongoing monitoring of pricing and promotional strategies business.
Regular commercial review of product performance Brand and reputation: Our founding principles of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust continue to influence how we do business and our reputation for being one of the UKs most trusted brands GM product New senior management team appointed with clear focus on Continued loss of engagement with our core customer quality and style As we seek to enhance the M&S brand, it is important that Prioritisation of core customer in both General Merchandise we address our core customers specific needs in an and Marketing objectives increasingly competitive market where economic uncertainty Regular review of customer reaction to product and in store continues to be an influencing factor.
experience through focus groups and in-house Customer Insight Unit presentations Ongoing product and store improvements addressing specific customer feedback Targeted marketing and promotional activity using customer loyalty data Food safety and integrity Dedicated team responsible for ensuring that all products are A food safety or integrity related incident occurs or is safe for consumption through rigorous controls and processes not effectively managed Continuous focus on quality As a leading retailer of fine quality fresh food, it is of Proactive horizon scanning including focus on fraud and paramount importance that we manage the safety and adulteration integrity of our products and supply chain, especially in light Established supplier and depot auditing programme of the business greater operational complexity and the heightened risk of fraudulent behaviour in the supply chain.
People and change: Our people are fundamental to the long term success and growth of this business Our people External hires recruited into a number of senior roles bringing Our organisational culture and structure limit our an alternative perspective ability to adapt to market changes with pace Robust employee engagement process for effective As the business strives to become a leading international, communication multi-channel retailer, it is essential that our organisational Alignment of development programmes with business strategy set-up allows us to respond to market changes with pace.
Programme and workstream management Strategic Programme Office centrally governs the Groups Benefits from our major business programmes and initiatives providing regular status and benefits realisation workstreams are not realised updates to the Executive Board We continue to undertake a number of major strategic Proactive management of programme portfolio and associated programmes to underpin the achievement of our plan: the benefits in the context of current market conditions and the delivery of forecasted benefits is critical to this.
Groups three year plan Programme governance structures in place for all major programmes, supported by robust project management discipline Proactive identification and management of major cross programme interdependencies Distribution centre restructure Robust programme governance in place with clear We fail to effectively deliver our new national identification of interdependencies with other Group initiatives e-commerce distribution centre Phased approach to implementation Our new national distribution centre will also service all Ongoing review of trajectory for achievement of agreed customer orders placed through Shop Your Way.
The operational and financial objectives implementation of this distribution centre relies on the Ongoing review of contingency requirement during facility opening of a new facility and new business processes and transition systems.
Engagement with external experts as appropriate to ensure successful delivery of the in-house operation Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 47 Description Mitigating activities Selling channels: We have ambitious plans for our UK, International and Multi-channel businesses as part of our commitment to becoming an international, multi-channel retailer Multi-channel Robust programme governance in place with clear A new multi-channel platform with flexibility to identification of interdependencies with other Group initiatives support future growth is not delivered by the time our Phased approach to implementation contract with Amazon expires Agreed quality assurance plan for programme delivery To achieve our target to become a leading multi-channel Close working with Amazon to ensure the quality of the existing retailer and to make our brand more accessible, we are online offer is maintained during new platform delivery investing in a new online platform that will provide both an enhanced shopping experience and help to accelerate growth.
International Frequent monitoring of performance, including individual Our plan to grow our international business is limited country reviews by performance in legacy markets, the start up Particular focus on like for like performance and poor profitability of new markets or substandard performing stores infrastructure Property Board approval of new store openings and monitoring To increase our international presence and build a leadership of returns on investment, plus creation of key roles to facilitate position in priority markets it is crucial that we maximise our delivery of property pipeline performance in both legacy and new markets, supported by Representation of International in key Group initiatives robust systems and supply chain capability.
Day-to-day operation: We are a customer-centric business and strive to deliver an efficient and effective operation GM stock management Stock, Sales & Intake tool used consistently across GM to plan Ineffective stock management control impacts either and manage stock levels gross margin delivery or product availability Regular commercial reviews to monitor stock levels and Effective stock management is integral to ensuring that we improve overall stock control provide good availability to our customers, whilst minimising Tight control of promotional activity the impact of markdowns on profitability.
UK stock ledger now live and the implementation of supporting Business Insight reporting underway Established inventory control team to ensure stock data integrity IT change Established Change Approval Board process Unforeseen impact of IT changes to new and existing Clear decision making process for system changes, including systems disrupts business operations the adoption of change freezes during critical trading periods As we undertake a number of significant change Proactive management of cross programme dependencies programmes, the rate and scale of IT change is increasing, including release management to group system changes with potential to significantly impact our complex and together interdependent systems.
Robust Disaster Recovery plans in place for critical business applications The Group Risk Profile reflects the most important risks facing the business at this point in time: these risks receive specific attention by the Board to ensure that sufficient mitigating activity is in place to reduce net risk to an acceptable level.
The Group Risk Profile will evolve as these mitigating activities succeed in reducing the residual risk over time, or new risks emerge.
As such, we have removed a number of risks from our Group Risk Profile since the prior year: Last year we included Business continuity on the Group Risk Profile in response to the heightened level of risk driven by the UKs summer 2012 events.
With the risk now returning to a normal level it has been removed, recognising the strength of our controls in this area Financial position, Corporate reputation, New store format, Key supplier failure and IT security have also been removed in recognition of the actions taken to reduce the net risk position The above risks remain important and they continue to be monitored as part of business as usual activities: however, we consider that they do not represent key risks to our business at this time and they have therefore been removed from the Group Risk Profile.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with Marks & Spencer and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Further information on the financial risks we face and how they are managed is provided on pages 101 to 106.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 48 Accountability continued Risk interconnectivity We continue to recognise the significant interdependency between our key risks, which is in part a product of our heavily interconnected business environment both in terms of systems and processes.
The following diagrams are based on our current Group Risk Profile.
Both are designed to highlight how changes to one risk could impact on those connected to it, and therefore on the profile as a whole.
We have incorporated a number of potential emerging risks which do not feature on our Group Risk Profile at this point in time, but could influence our business in the longer term, illustrating how emerging risk is considered by the Board.
Programme & IT change GM product Key: Key: Changing Emerging risk Emerging risk competitor Omni-channel IT change Group risk Group risk environment 3 1 4 Economic GM product Multi-channel outlook 1 1 1 Distribution centre Programme GM stock restructure International and workstream management 1 2 management 3 2 1.
Our new online platform Multi-channel and our Distribution 1.
To ensure GM product meets our core customers expectations, the centre restructure are highly interdependent programmes reliant on business needs to react with pace to changes in consumer preference in significant IT change.
Failure to deliver these key programmes or the context of a challenging Economic outlook.
adequately manage associated IT change could increase the likelihood of 2.
Our UK catalogue is the core of our international offer: delivering GM cumulative failure.
product style and quality is critical in achieving our aim to grow our 2.
Cumulative failure in the successful delivery of our major business International business.
programmes would significantly impact our ability to realise agreed benefits.
UK and international sales performance against plan is a key contributory 3.
The success of the new platform in supporting our aim to be a leading factor in our ability to achieve effective GM stock management.
multi-channel retailer will be influenced by a number of factors, one being 4.
Other potential emerging risks for example Changing competitor our ability to keep pace with ongoing developments in the Omni-channel environment may impact the relevance of our GM product and our world, currently considered to be a potential emerging risk.
engagement with our core customer.
Risk and the role of Internal Audit Internal Audit & Risk comprises both the Group Risk function and Internal Audit.
Whilst Group Risk facilitates and manages the risk process that is ultimately owned by the Group Board, Internal Audit are accountable to the Audit Committee.
Audit projects are often closely aligned to the Group Risk Profile due to the risk-based approach used to prioritise audit work.
The following examples illustrate how Internal Audit work supports Group Risk whilst driving improvements to our control environment and adding value in core business areas.
Risk: International Risk: Multi-channel Risk: Distribution centre restructure Internal Audit have carried out a number of We reviewed the design of the payment process Internal Audit scheduled a review to assess the International operational reviews including China for the new online platform to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of controls over and the Balkans.
Both audits were designed to adequacy of the planned control environment.
supplier compliance with product packaging assess the adequacy and effectiveness of We also evaluated whether proposed and labelling requirements: a high risk area of internal controls, but varying risk profiles meant programme testing would maximise operational the Distribution Centre Restructure programme.
work focused on different functional areas.
The selection of Payment Control The level of risk is conferred by our large and China was included on the plan due to its Design as the area of focus recognises that geographically disparate supply base, with strategic importance and significant growth payment processes carry a high level of inherent suppliers required to achieve compliance for plans whilst the Balkans was selected following risk.
The audit identified the need to ensure that distribution centre go live.
The audit identified a change in the ownership model.
operational processes retain flexibility as future opportunities to improve reporting processes In China there were opportunities to improve business requirements develop, and to ensure and procedures relating to supplier compliance operational reporting and automate controls to that the end to end customer journey meets rates to focus attention on the measures that improve supply chain efficiencies.
are most critical for go live.
geographically dispersed Balkan stores there were opportunities to improve compliance with certain operating standards.
Management actions Management actions from our audits are tracked to completion and the status of these actions is reported to the Audit Committee to ensure that the risks identified are appropriately addressed.
This will, in turn, further mitigate the risks included in our Group Risk Profile.
