Governance Corporate Governance Statement Public and shareholder announcements.
The Board considers it has fully complied with the main principles Internal controls and the identification, monitoring and of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and its management of risk.
application is described here following the sections as set out in Major capital expenditure, asset acquisitions and disposals.
Board and Committee membership and corporate governance arrangements.
Remuneration of Directors and senior management.
LEADERSHIP Policies, including ethics, health and safety, environmental, Role of the Board charitable and corporate social responsibility.
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board has met ten times Roles and responsibilities this year, allowing it to effectively monitor the Companys progress There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the against its strategic aims and within the risk management Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer CEO which are set out in framework.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for the writing and agreed by the Board.
The table below details the Boards decision is in place and can be summarised as follows: individual roles and responsibilities and also highlights the specific Strategy, management and budget matters.
duties of our Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary: Capital structure, dividend policy and financial controls.
Roles and responsibilities Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive Officer Roger Devlin is responsible for: Ralph Findlay is responsible for: Ensuring each Non-executive Director makes an effective The performance of the Company in line with the strategies contribution to the Board through debate and discussion with and objectives established by the Board and under powers the Executive Directors.
The effective operation, leadership and governance of the Ensuring the Board is supplied with information relevant to its Board.
Ensuring effectiveness of the Board.
Leading the Executive Directors and senior management in dealing with the operational requirements of the business.
Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions with a particular focus on strategic matters.
Providing clear and visible leadership in business conduct.
Ensuring the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Role of the Senior Independent Director Role of the Company Secretary Lord Hodgson is responsible for: Anne-Marie Brennan is responsible for: Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which Under the direction of the Chairman, ensuring effective contact through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO or information channels within the Board and its Committees, other Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which and between senior management and Non-executive such contact is inappropriate.
Directors, as well as facilitating induction activities for Directors and assisting with their development as required.
Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for the other Directors.
Advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Leading the Non-executive Directors in their annual assessment of the Chairmans performance.
Administering the procedure under which Directors can, where appropriate, obtain independent professional advice If necessary, leading discussions on the appointment of at the Companys expense.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31
