Melrose Industries PLC 22 Annual Report 2012 Divisional review continued Other Industrial review Revenue Market leading manufacturers Year ended 31 December 2012 across the housing, construction, 129.1m and scrap processing sectors.
1 Headline operating profit Year ended 31 December 2012 www.
com 3 Other Industrial 2 Revenue by end market Year ended 31 December 2012 0,000.0m 1 Hardware 62% 1 2 Scrap Processing 34% 3 Other 4% Pictured: A Harris multi-purpose baler used in the non-ferrous scrap metal, recovered bre, recovered plastics and solid waste industries.
With a ram force of 137 tons, this product 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
has been the top selling narrow box ram baler in North America for the past six years.
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 23 TRUTH Truth is the North American market leader in the engineering, design Truth and manufacture of hardware products used to serve the fenestration market, which includes windows, patio doors and skylights.
Truths channel to market is through the large well known North American fenestration OEMs.
The main manufacturing facility of Truth is in Minnesota, USA, where its engineering, research and development, die casting, metal stamping, component fabrications and assembly manufacturing takes place.
Truth also has a separate facility in Toronto, Canada, which serves as a competency centre for machining technology.
During the year, both revenue and operating profit increased when compared to 2011.
Revenue was up by approximately 5 per cent as the North American housing market continued its recovery.
Operating profit increased signicantly due to a variety of factors which included a successful continuous improvement project as well as labour efficiency measures and enhanced management of the global supply chain, designed to eliminate unnecessary logistics costs.
The manufacture of Truths product is carried out by a combination of inhouse manufacturing, together with third party sourcing of lower margin product.
Truths Bi-Fold hardware system allows both homeowners and businesses to take advantage of moveable glass walls During the year, focus was placed on initiatives for continuous that allows indoor and outdoor space to combine.
The improvement, which included greater cost control, product quality, product has been engineered to take advantage of Truths scrap reduction, inventory analysis and delivery times.
Various capital award winning Multi-Point hardware system.
investments were also made during the year, to include robotic automation in certain parts of the manufacturing process and new More information about Truth is available at die casting equipment.
These operational improvements and capital www.
com investments place Truth in a good position to capitalise on future market growth.
Outlook During 2012, Harris continued with its strategy to further improve Truth remains confident about market growth prospects within the North the quality and reliability of its existing product ranges.
Engineering American housing market during 2013.
All current signs support further resources were focused on making further improvements to products recovery in this market and additional sales should result in a further launched in 2010 and 2011, such as the Centurion EHD baler, designed improvement in performance.
for the non-ferrous market and side compressor shears, designed for the ferrous market.
Strategically important product launches will occur In addition to the positive market outlook, Truth is confident about in 2013, to include equipment for both the ferrous and non-ferrous gaining further market share as a result of widening its product portfolio.
The current and future product development pipeline includes both new products and enhancements to existing products for all product Harris continued to focus on key customer-facing strategies, designed categories including windows, patio doors and commercial product.
to strengthen its position in the scrap and waste recycling industries.
Harris further expanded its presence in Latin America to fully participate HARRIS in the rapidly growing recycling industries in that region.
It also made Harris is a well-respected leader in the scrap and waste recycling efforts to strengthen relationships with the largest scrap and waste industries, operating from two manufacturing plants in Georgia, USA.
processors, as consolidation in these industries continues.
Additionally, The business designs, manufactures and services a full range of size Harris remains focused on maximising Aftermarket sales opportunities.
reduction equipment solutions for the scrap metal, bre recycling and waste industries.
Outlook Harris expects little sales growth in 2013 due to overall market Harris saw revenue decrease by around 15 per cent, as demand for conditions.
Notwithstanding this, Harris expects to further improve scrap recycling machines declined, with orders decreasing by around its internal efficiency and execute key strategies which will place the the same level.
This contributed to a substantial fall in operating profit company in a stronger position going forward.
when compared to the prior year.
