Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 19 Lifting review Revenue World leading suppliers of wire, Year ended 31 December 2012 wire rope products, lifting ttings 524.4m and blocks.
com Year ended 31 December 2012 95.2m www.
com Lifting Revenue by end market 2 4 Year ended 31 December 2012 1 Energy 5% 2 Oil & Gas 35% 3 Mining 14% 4 Industrials 38% 5 Other 8% 3 Pictured: Bridon supplies the Oil industry with various rope products which are at the forefront 54% Energy, Oil & Gas and Mining of technology.
This includes the Dyform Bristar drill line rope a cross section of which is pictured above which has high strength strands and an engineered polymer core 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
designed to signicantly improve service life and reduce costly rig downtime.
Melrose Industries PLC 20 Annual Report 2012 Divisional review continued BRIDON biggest awards was the Quad project, one of the largest deep-water Bridon designs and manufactures a comprehensive range of lifting and mooring systems for offshore production ever made.
The mining market stabilising solutions for applications in wire rope, bre rope, steel wire was also strong for Bridon in 2012 and Bridon continued to expand its and strand.
The business services global customers in the oil & gas, global customer footprint, expanding sales for shovel ropes and shaft mining, industrial, marine and infrastructure sectors.
ropes in Russia, Poland, China and South Africa.
In North America, sales to mining machine OEMs and specialist distributors grew over 30 Bridon demonstrated further progress in trading, as revenue, operating per cent, despite a relatively weak US coal market and is focused on the profit, orders and margin increased when compared against the prior year.
large opportunities within this area.
This reects the continued strength in Bridons core markets, as well as its focus on operational improvements.
Working capital control remained The commercial construction markets in Europe and the Middle East strong but cash conversion was somewhat impacted by the slippage of remained subdued, while crane rope sales showed moderate growth in sales of several large oil & gas projects into the last quarter of the year.
North America, reecting Bridons premier position with OEMs.
Demand for crane and mining ropes continued to be solid in China, but the Demand for onshore oil & gas ropes was subdued in the first half, volatile levels of industrial production in Asia have led to variable demand reecting a weak drilling market due to low gas prices and poor drilling for industrial ropes.
Bridons Chinese operation based in Hangzhou conditions in Canada.
The offshore sector, by contrast, was strong, continued to make progress, both in domestic and local export markets.
as global production companies invested in new ships and platforms.
Demand was strong in the North Sea, Brazil and parts of Asia and Bridon has continued to upgrade its operations via targeted investment Africa: production continued to expand in the Gulf of Mexico after and through progress in programmes to drive quality, efficiency and a significant hiatus.
In response to the growth of deep-water drilling health and safety.
in Latin America, Bridon opened a new facility and service centre in Macae, Brazil, in December 2012.
This facility will provide wire rope and In keeping with Bridons strategy to be the global technology leader for inspection services to rig operators in this fast growing oil & gas market.
demanding rope applications, Bridon formally opened a new factory in Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, in November 2012.
The Neptune Quay facility is capable of producing the worlds largest and most complex Bridon ropes and is equipped to load them directly onto vessels at the deepwater port for export.
In addition, a new technology centre was built adjacent to the Doncaster production facility, providing highly advanced product design, development and testing facilities.
In all, Melrose invested in excess of 20 million in the expansion and improvement of Bridons operations and technological capabilities during the year.
Bridon developed a number of new products and completed five technology development projects during 2012.
Highlights include extending the high performance Hydra product range with advanced multi-strand rope designs, to take full advantage of the new manufacturing facility at Neptune Quay.
These products offer high strength ropes for offshore oil & gas market applications, such as ultra-deep abandonment and recovery with improved performance characteristics.
In the surface mining market, a Tiger Blue shovel hoist rope was developed with an improved plastic extrusion coating and a proprietary anti-wear sleeve that combats bend fatigue and rockimpact damage for customers in Canada and USA.
Within America, Bridon developed the Dyform 8 MAX, an improved product for active mobile industrial boom hoist crane applications, delivering improved strength, crush resistance and fatigue life.
For use in structures, Bridon successfully developed a sheathed full-locked coil rope assembly that Cross section through Bridons Zebra rope, which has a provides corrosion protection and reduces installation time in bridge protective Optima sleeve around it.
This product is used as applications.
Longer term research projects continue to advance a shovel hoist rope within the surface mining industry: the Bridons technological understanding of its bre and wire rope products, Optima sleeve design protects from external impact and with further progress being made in rope technology, developments in abrasion, such as falling rocks and debris.
materials, and non-destructive evaluation of rope condition.
More information about Bridon is available at Outlook www.
com The financial issues in the Eurozone and the ongoing negotiations around the Fiscal Cliff in the US have created uncertainty in a number of markets.
As a result of this, some customers are cautious of making The expansion in exploration and drilling also offered Bridon the chance financial commitments.
Despite this, Bridon expects demand for oil & to compete for some significant contracts for bespoke anchor lines, gas and minerals to remain solid in 2013. single point mooring systems and offshore crane ropes.
Among the Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 21 CROSBY North America also enjoyed continued investment.
A modernised Crosby is a world leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of galvanizing facility was completed during the year to increase capacity lifting ttings, blocks and sheaves to the oil & gas, construction and and reduce cost.
Two additional forging hammers, multiple induction mining industries, serviced primarily through a global network of valueheaters and a state-of-the-art electric upsetter were also added to added specialty distributors.
improve efficiencies, quality and throughput in the four North American facilities.
However, one of the most anticipated investments will not Following the outstanding performance achieved by Crosby during both commence production until early 2014, when Crosby plans to unveil 2010 and 2011, the business had another very successful year in 2012. a recently delivered 35,000lb hammer.
Once operational it will be one Revenue for the year was up nearly 13 per cent, with operating profit up of the largest operating in the lifting industry and allow Crosby to forge by over 20 per cent.
While European and North American construction larger shackles of up to 400 tonnes, the manufacture of which would markets remained slow, this was more than offset by demand in oil & previously have been outsourced.
These larger products will be used gas markets, and combined with growth in emerging markets, helped to supply the major oil companies within the offshore industry.
Overall Crosby to achieve this record performance.
production equipment acquired during 2012 alone will, when fully operational, increase Crosbys forging capacity in North America by Crosby continued its focus on supporting its traditional worldwide more than 15 per cent.
distributor base by achieving record levels of training.
Nearly 1,000 seminars reached over 25,000 end users of Crosby product during the Outlook year.
That focus helped to reinforce the technical expertise and application The outlook for Crosby in 2013 remains positive and follows three knowledge that exists within Crosby and also resulted in greater market strong years of growth since 2009.
Oil prices have remained high share and brand loyalty.
Additionally, several new distributors were and natural gas prices have continued to edge upwards, enough to established in Asia, where Crosby continues to grow at an average of warrant additional investment by the industry.
Crosby is well placed three times the overall market growth rates within these territories.
to take advantage of additional growth opportunities if these price trends continue although revenue growth is not expected to be at Further growth also came from several innovative new product launches.
Crosbys unrelenting focus on continuous Crosby introduced its Easy-Loc Bolt Retention System, a patented improvement, innovative new products and market expansion, gives the design which eliminates the need for the traditional threaded bolt, business confidence to expect another solid year of market share and nut and cotter pin, resulting in easier and more efficient operation for performance improvement.
the end-user, while maintaining all of the safety attributes required for demanding applications.
Crosby also introduced new hoist rings ACCO designed for greater versatility in the extreme and abrasive material Acco, the supplier of material handling equipment including cranes, handling environments of subsea and saltwater applications.
Lastly, the monorails, hoists, carts and trailers, performed well, with revenue patent-pending McKissick Tubing Grab, for use on oil rig tubing lift increasing by over 20 per cent against the prior year.
Operating profit projects, has been designed with a quick, easy, and efficient attachment for the year produced a return on sales of approximately 17 per cent.
move to more niche products has resulted in dramatic improvement in the results of this business.
During 2012, Crosby continued to invest in its global facilities.
An ongoing programme to optimise Crosbys European manufacturing Capital investment was also made in the business, which included a footprint culminated in the announcement to close the facility in replacement conveyor system in the monorail plant, various upgrades Nouzonville, France.
Several production equipment moves are also and other equipment rebuilds, designed to increase the useful and ongoing, designed to create centres of excellence in forging and productive life of existing equipment.
machining to support growth in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Additionally, the Premier Stampings facility in the UK acquired additional Outlook land and is currently in the process of building a heat treatment facility to It will be difficult to repeat 2012 but Acco is well-positioned in its allow for greater exibility and independence in its supply chain.
marketplace and optimism remains high for a further improvement in performance in 2013.
In Asia, Crosbys manufacturing location in Hangzhou, China, nearly doubled its sales as a result of gaining its API Q1 8C certication, which is necessary in order to manufacture monogrammed products to sell to equipment end users within the oileld industry.
By having this capability at the Chinese facility, Crosby has begun to service crane OEM customers in China with locally manufactured blocks and sheaves.
