Melrose Industries PLC 16 Annual Report 2012 Divisional review Energy review Revenue Market leading manufacturers of Year ended 31 December 2012 electricity generating equipment, 486.8m switchgear and transformers.
1 Headline operating profit Year ended 31 December 2012 www.
com Revenue by end market 2 Year ended 31 December 2012 www.
com 1 Energy 72% 2 Oil & Gas 9% 3 Industrials 11% 1 4 Other 8% Pictured: The upgraded electrical coil manufacturing shop within Brushs facility in the Czech 81% Energy and Oil & Gas Republic, where a substantial investment has been made in changing the physical layout of the manufacturing areas.
This has helped to improve product quality and reduce 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
generator product lead times for customers.
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 17 BRUSH Orders in 2012 for new build turbogenerators in value terms were down Brush Turbogenerators Turbogenerators is the worlds largest year on year, primarily as a result of a trend during the year towards independent manufacturer of electricity generating equipment for the smaller turbogenerators on shorter lead-times for gas turbine aeropower generation, industrial, oil & gas and offshore sectors.
Orders for large turbogenerators, primarily for four plants in the UK, Czech Republic, Netherlands and USA it designs, steam turbine applications, were delayed as financial closure of projects manufactures and services turbogenerators, principally in the 10 MW reduced due to the prevailing economic conditions.
The product to 250 MW range, for both gas and steam turbine applications and development strategy of increasing the product range into higher supplies a globally diverse customer base.
In addition, Brush designs and power outputs has been successful with the first sales of 187 MW air manufactures systems and power transformers under the brand name cooled turbogenerators and the first order for a 200 MW air cooled Brush Transformers Transformers and also produces a wide range of turbogenerator.
These are the largest air cooled turbogenerators ever indoor and outdoor medium voltage AC DC switchgear under the Hawker built by Brush and mark an important development for future growth.
Harrington Generators International HGI is a specialist UK based small generator manufacturer supplying Aftermarket orders within the turbogenerators business were up 20 per the construction, military, telecoms and rail sectors.
cent year on year with strong US growth, though European aftermarkets were more subdued as the utility sector in particular reduced During 2012 Brush continued the trend of year on year improvement maintenance spend.
Revenue increased by approximately 6 per cent and this again translated to strong cash generation.
Continued progress has been made in improving factory performance and productivity within Turbogenerators.
The restructuring of the turbogenerator manufacturing plant in the Netherlands was largely carried out during the year and the full benets of this will be seen in 2013.
Brush HSS had a very good year with the strong order intake seen in the first half continuing throughout.
Although revenue was 8 per cent down year on year, as a series of larger contracts were completed in 2011, operating margins improved signicantly.
This was HSSs first full year of integration as part of Brush.
The full benefit of sales and marketing synergies and operational efficiencies will only be seen in 2013.
The Australian division of HSS continued to perform well during the year.
Brush Transformers had a successful year, thus continuing the progress made since integration into Brush in 2010.
Demand continued to recover in the third of the current 5 year OFGEM cycle and revenue nished higher than the previous year.
Operating margins have improved signicantly as a result of the management focus placed on the development of a new manufacturing strategy, a value engineered product line and aftermarket sales.
Despite a challenging UK market, HGI Generators had a satisfactory year, with both revenue and operating margins up against the previous year.
One of the highlights of 2012 for HGI was the supply of standby power to the emergency services ahead of the London Olympics.
Outlook A BDAX7-193 generator going through the winding process to The prospects for medium and long term growth in power generation and connect electrical coils, at the Brush Turbogenerators site at in particular the aero-derivative gas turbine sector in which Turbogenerators Loughborough, UK.
The machine was manufactured for a oating has a leading position are well publicised and this, combined with the Liquid Natural Gas project on behalf of a major exploration company.
investment being made, means Brush is very well positioned for future growth.
However, in the short term the trend towards smaller generators More information about Brush is available at and the overall financial conditions are likely to impact sales of Brushs larger www.
eu 2 pole OEM generator product during 2013.
Brush should however be able to mitigate this due to continued growth in its aftermarket activities and further improved efficiencies.
After a difficult 2012 due to market conditions, the prospects for the smaller 4 pole generators are more encouraging, particularly in the oil & gas and geothermal markets.
Melrose Industries PLC 18 Annual Report 2012 Divisional review continued Turbogenerators has over two thirds of its 2013 budgeted new build sales covered by orders.
This is broadly consistent with the experience Marelli from previous years.
Following the encouraging increase in order intake and investment in resources through 2012, Aftermarket is well positioned for growth in 2013.
Continued capital investment and full year benets from restructuring programmes, both at Brush facilities in the Netherlands and HSS, gives us confidence that Brush can improve further.
MARELLI Marelli Motori Marelli, based in Italy, is one of the worlds leading manufacturers of industrial electrical motors and generators with a product portfolio of motors and generators, ranging respectively from 0.12 kW to 6.4 MW and from 15 kVA to 9.0 MVA, including low, medium and high voltage.
Marelli serves worldwide markets for power generation, marine, oil & gas and industrial manufacturing, through its production sites in Italy and Malaysia and further sales, service and distribution ofces based in Germany, UK, Spain, USA and South Africa.
Following the increase in revenue in 2011 of around 20 per cent, a further increase of about 12.5 per cent was achieved in 2012.
As in the prior year, this was mainly due to the recovery of the marine, Rotor balancing of a 900 frame size generator at Marellis hydroelectric and oil & gas sectors, which explains why the mix of sales production facility in Italy.
This generator was supplied by continues to be focused on large and special machines, rather than Marelli to the Pianarucci hydro power plant, Italy and has a smaller standard products.
Order intake is currently around 19 rotor weight of 11,600kg and produces 3,300 kVA of power.
per cent above last year and this makes Marellis management confident of further growth for this year.
More information about Marelli is available at Bespoke innovative power solutions played an important role within www.
New products included customised hydroelectric generators, large cogeneration alternators for both 50 and 60 Hz usage, medium voltage marine motors and generators, together with special motors and generators for the oil & gas industries.
Due to enhanced Outlook testing capabilities, customers and end users now have the opportunity Marelli had a strong order book at year end, which represents 35 to verify that products meet or exceed contractual performance.
The per cent of the projected 2013 turnover.
Marelli also aims to increase its lead times for standard products were also improved, due to the new global presence worldwide through new sales ofces and to concentrate factory layout at Marellis Malaysian facility and the implementation of its efforts in developing new products for its strategic markets of marine, lean methodologies.
hydro, cogeneration and oil & gas, which look to remain stable.
The further development of exports and opportunities to grow sales with During 2012, Marellis facility in Malaysia, which is fully dedicated to the existing key customers gives us the confidence that 2013 will be another production of standard specication machines, achieved its planned year of progress for Marelli.
production volumes of up to 1,200 units each month.
significant capital investment has been made in Marellis main manufacturing centre, at Arzignano, Italy: this includes a new large milling machine and a balancing machine for the increased sizes of motors and generators being manufactured.
All these investments follow Marellis strategy to focus production within its Italian facility on large and customised machines.
