Melrose Industries PLC 24 Annual Report 2012 Divisional review continued Elster review Revenue A world leading engineering 2 Four months ended 31 December 2012 business and one of the 411.1m worlds largest providers of gas control equipment and related communications, gas, electricity 1 Headline operating profit Four months ended 31 December 2012 and water meters, networking and software solutions.
57.8m 2 Elster Revenue by end market Four months ended 31 December 2012 www.
com 1 Energy 84% 2 Water 16% 1 84% Energy Pictured: 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
2 Roller hearth kiln, which has a maximum temperature of 1,200C and is used in the Revenue stated for Elster relates only to the four month period post-acquisition.
manufacture of ne ceramics and tiles.
Elsters Gas Control equipment business supplied Trading within Elster is affected by seasonality so the revenue stated does not represent a true run rate for the full year.
150 burners, as well as automatic burner control units, solenoid valves and gear motors.
Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 25 Elster Group S. E. was acquired by Melrose in August 2012 for an enterprise previously manufactured in Western Europe has been transferred to value of 1.8 billion.
The gures given for each of the businesses are only for the newly extended plant in Slovakia.
This strategy will continue to be the four months post acquisition and are affected by seasonality.
Therefore, executed throughout 2013 and 2014. they are not an accurate indication of a run rate for 2013.
The extensive product portfolio within Elster Gas has been reviewed and is Although it is still early days, we are very pleased with the progress in the process of rationalisation to eliminate low margin products.
This will that has been made so far.
Restructuring projects aimed at achieving also enable a more focused and value driven research and development our plan for the business have either already been completed or are at strategy to be implemented.
The next few years will be key years in the least well underway.
Part of this restructuring has been to reduce the roll out of Smart Gas Meters in Europe and significant work has been number of reporting businesses from five to three: the Elster division has undertaken to ensure that the business is ready for this major opportunity.
now been split into three distinct global businesses of Gas, Water and Electricity.
Further detail about each of these businesses is given below.
Outlook Elster Gas end markets remain healthy.
Order input in 2012 increased GAS by 2 per cent against the prior year, giving a book to bill ratio of 100 per 2012 cent.
When coupled with the full year effect of post-acquisition efficiency 4 months improvements and additional planned activities in the year ahead, Elster post Gas should enjoy a strong performance in 2013. acquisition m Total Revenue 236.9 1 Headline Operating Profit 46.7 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
Elster Gas is a world leader in the design and manufacture of gas measurement, process heat control and gas safety control equipment, supplying a global customer base in more than 130 countries.
It has one of the most extensively installed utility measurement bases in the world with more than 75 million gas metering devices deployed over the last 10 years alone.
Its complete range of end-to-end solutions enables customers to efficiently manage and control natural gas resources.
From its four lead plants in Europe and the USA, coupled with sizeable subsidiary operations in China, Russia and Mexico, Elster Gas supplies gas meters for both residential and commercial industrial customers.
In addition, the Elster Gas control equipment range of products is used extensively by global customers in both the upstream and midstream gas market sectors.
Despite continued delays in the anticipated roll out of Smart Gas Meters in Europe and a sluggish process heat control equipment market, particularly in China, Elster Gas full year revenues recovered in the last four months of the year to end up at when compared to 2011.
Production of gas meters at the Elster facility in Osnabrck, Revenue within the European market declined but this was more than Germany.
This site was honoured with the German Global offset by an increase in the US market.
Excellence in Operations GEO award for 2012, due to its recognised manufacturing and assembly processes for Operating profit for the four month period post acquisition improved residential and commercial gas meters.
over the same period in 2011, largely as a result of operating efficiency More information about Elster is available at improvements, which were implemented after the acquisition.
com In the four months since acquisition many changes and initiatives have taken place in order to better position the business to exploit the ELECTRICITY 2012 projected long-term growth in its end markets.
4 months post A new unied global organisation has been created to replace the acquisition previously separate US business and disparate European operations.
m Clear lines of responsibility and accountability have been established and Total Revenue 106.8 there is now a highly motivated and performance driven management 1 team in place, working together towards a demanding set of long-term Headline Operating Profit 12.6 1 goals and objectives.
At the same time a new and focused operations Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
review process has been introduced to improve manufacturing and procurement performance.
Elster Electricity is one of the worlds largest international metering solution providers, supplying both traditional and Smart Meter Further progress has also been made in rationalising the European equipment, including applications for residential, commercial, industrial, manufacturing footprint, where the production of a number of products transmission and distribution markets.
Melrose Industries PLC 26 Annual Report 2012 Divisional review continued The product range includes distribution and control monitoring Elster Water designs and manufactures a comprehensive range of water equipment, advanced Smart Metering, demand response, networking metering solutions, which includes high accuracy mechanical meters, and software solutions, together with several other communication fully electronic water meters and Smart metering solutions for residential, products and services.
Elster Electricity has key production facilities commercial and industrial sectors.
located in Europe, North America and South America.
Following acquisition, a greater focus has been placed on the Revenue within Elster Electricity was impacted by the delayed roll out of acceleration of various restructuring projects, profitability of sales and Smart Metering in Europe, plus slower than expected growth in Asian simplication of the business structure.
It is clear that supplying certain markets.
The North American market continued to be strong and this unprofitable markets and products was adversely affecting the financial growth was primarily driven by Energy Axis, Elster Electricitys Smart performance of this business.
Under Melrose ownership, various enhancements were made to the Operating profit was also affected by the delayed Smart Metering roll out restructuring projects that had originally been announced by Elster in Europe.
Ongoing investment in the Smart Meter product portfolio and in 2011.
These include the closure of underperforming parts of the organisational changes further impacted on the operating profit of the business in Poland, Colombia and Italy, moving from an operations business.
The cessation of manufacturing mechanical meters in North America and the exit from a significant Post-acquisition, the businesses of Elster North America and Elster number of lower margin product lines made in Germany enables a International were consolidated into one Electricity business.
This significant restructuring of operations in those markets.
Although this was done to create efficiencies and establish a highly motivated only delivered a small operating margin improvement in 2012, these organisation, with a clear focus and responsibility.
Since acquisition, projects are expected to deliver significant benefit from 2013 onwards.
actions have also already been taken to streamline the US business, via In total, since acquisition, the closure and restructuring of five facilities in the reorganisation of certain sales, product management, research and this business have been announced and are well underway.
development departments and the relocation of all remaining production at the Raleigh, US, facility to Mexico.
Consolidation of the European The business has been successful in managing its overhead base, manufacturing footprint is ongoing, which includes the development which contributed to the operating profit improvement during the year.
of Romanian facilities to act as a central European manufacturing and development centre, the closure of the Hungarian operation and the South America produced strong results, as both revenue and operating downsizing of some German and British operations.
profit increased, following a market sales price recovery after a challenging 2011.
Continued economic growth in the Brazilian market During 2013, focus will be on the expected roll out of Smart Meters in is helping to increase meter penetration and Elster Water continues to Europe, which will be supported by investments in both new and existing capture significant sales with several major customers.
Smart Meter product platforms and solutions: this will have a positive contribution on future revenues.
Completion of the European manufacturing New product launches in 2012 included the S150 single jet meter with footprint will also continue to be a focus for the management team, together improved accuracy range, HT8 and ePico hybrid AMR submeters with with further operational profitability improvements in North America.
integrated radio communication and further extensions of the polymer bodied V200 volumetric meter range.
Enhancements to the Emeris Outlook Smart Metering solutions include ERM2 route management software The global electricity metering business will remain challenging in 2013 updates and the new Emeris WaterNet data management system, but there are strong signs it is moving in a very positive direction over the developed in conjunction with Elster Electricity.
In Europe, targets are in place to roll out Smart Meters to 80 per cent of customers by 2020, and 100 per cent by 2022.
This means Globally, sales of polymer bodied meters grew by over 38 per cent that member states of the EU will provide a commitment to develop Smart compared to 2011.
This is an area of substantial opportunity for Elster.
Metering on a large scale basis, although it is inevitable that not all national The award winning polymer meters are helping customers achieve their governments will develop their plans at the same pace.
reduction targets, as well as providing lead free alternatives to CO2 traditional brass and bronze products.
Further growth opportunities in Europe come from the evolution of Smart Meter functionality to grid applications, such as outage, voltage Outlook conversion, loss detection, load control and demand response.
This is The Elster Water business will continue with its restructuring plans already a reality in North American markets and Elster Electricity will be throughout 2013. significant operating profit improvement will be achieved well placed to use its experience gained from the American market.
from the closure or restructuring of low operating margin businesses and the cessation of poorly performing product lines.
Market conditions WATER continue to be affected by ongoing austerity measures in several regions 2012 and competition remains strong in many segments.
However, we are 4 months confident that with a revised business model for Elster Water, which will post focus on its strengths and a continued emphasis on advanced metering acquisition solutions, profits within Elster Water will increase in 2013. m Total Revenue 67.4 1 Headline Operating Profit 1.4 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
