Business review Our vision People love to eat and drink with us.
Strategic Focusing the Developing Generating Extending the skill Continuing the priorities business on the national brands high returns on base of operational sound financial growth in the with high investment through excellence and base with a eating-out market customer affinity scale advantage consumer focus flexible approach and relevance to property ownership Further growth New structure Rigorous method New ways of Net debt reduced Progress in in food sales means there is of site selection working trials to 4.5 times FY 2012 and margin in top to bottom through detailed introduced to EBITDA, with longa challenging accountability for approach to site make pub teams term debt financing environment brands focused on criteria and finding increasingly secured on large, Growth of guest satisfaction the right targets focused on guests predominantly 5 percentage Investment in guest 10% reduction Empowering freehold asset base points in guest service, training in leisure and general managers 55 leasehold sites satisfaction and kitchen skills retail park site and their teams opened on leisure through investment New IT systems development costs to take greater retail parks since in improved improved brand since FY 2011 from accountability for start of FY 2011 service levels offer with free value engineering performance Opened 47 new wi-fi for our guests Trials currently businesses during 200th Harvester being extended to the year opened in the year, over 300 restaurants with brand winning and pubs Peach Evolutionary Brand award Performance Like-for-like food Like-for-like sales 17% EBITDA return Guest and employee 25% EBITDA in FY 2012 sales up 2.9% up 2.1% on investments satisfaction levels return on single- 130 million Award-winning made in the last improved site leasehold meals sold brands two years acquisitions in the last two years Priorities for Focus on improving Continued focus Ongoing focus Convert Continued FY 2013 menu quality and on ensuring that on improving the improvement in rigorous approach choice our guests are efficiency of our satisfaction levels to determining the Focus on continued at the heart of investments to improved likeright towns and sites improvement in everything we do Further reduction for-like sales for our brands speed and quality Leveraging new in purchasing and and profitability of service IT systems to energy costs Roll out ways improve customer of working trials experience across the estate Key risks Changes in general Failure to anticipate Availability of Ability to attract, Availability of economic climate changes in acquisition targets retain, develop and acquisition targets Failure to anticipate consumer taste at the right price motivate the best at the right price changes in Availability of Cost of goods price people with the consumer taste acquisition targets increases right capabilities at the right price 02 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A brand to suit every occasion Our industry leading brands offer excellent service, choice, and value for every occasion.
15 brands 47 new openings in the year See all our brands online: www.
com ourbrands Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 03 Business review continued Mitchells & Butlers is the UKs largest Like-for-like sales in the first week of the operator of managed restaurants new financial year were down as a result of 2.1% and pubs, with a leading portfolio unseasonably warm weather last year: since total like-for-like sales growth of well-recognised brands and a high then sales have increased by around 1%.
We focus on long-term growth in the eating-out Adjusted operating profit was 1.0% higher market.
Having repositioned the business than last year at 297m with operating margins to deliver a 40% increase in food sales slightly lower than last year at 16.0%.
2.9% over the last five years, around threefood like-for-like sales growth quarters of our turnover is generated Business change programme from the guests who eat out in our We have initiated a major business restaurants and pubs.
transformation programme which is fundamentally changing the way we work to This year, we have delivered a resilient improve the focus on our guests, our people, operating performance in challenging economic our practices and our profits.
This year, we have conditions whilst initiating a major change taken some important steps towards achieving As part of our business transformation programme to put guest service at the heart our vision: People love to eat and drink with us.
programme we have created focused brand teams of our business.
with increased accountability for performance Organisational structure: At the half year Operating performance we reported that we had simplified our central FY 2012 was a 53 week reporting period.
support functions to increase the focus on To provide a more appropriate comparison to our guests: to clarify accountabilities and the prior year, results have been restated on responsibilities: and to improve the pace of a 52 week basis to exclude the last week of decision making through reduced bureaucracy.
Unless otherwise stated, all figures We appointed Brand Operations Directors with in this Business review are given on a 52 week increased accountability for the performance of basis.
A comparative income statement their brands: Marketing and HR now sit within is presented in table 1. their teams.
We removed around 90 roles from our support functions and we have launched a Total revenue growth of 3.3% was driven performance dashboard to align objectives by like-for-like sales growth of 2.1%.
sales continue to drive overall sales growth demonstrating the success of our focus on the eating-out market.
The brands in the middle to upper end of our spectrum of spend per head have driven this revenue growth.
FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 Like-for-like Week Week Week sales growth 1-52 1-52 1-8 Total 2.6% 2.1% -0.1% Food 4.8% 2.9% 1.5% Drink 1.0% 1.4% -1.9% Table 1: comparative income statement FY 2012 m FY 2012 m FY 2011 m Variance 53 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks Revenue 1,889 1,855 1,796 3.3% Adjusted EBITDA 415 407 404 0.7% Adjusted operating profit 304 297 294 1.0% Adjusted PBT 166 162 156 3.8% Adjusted EPS 30.5p 29.8p 28.0p 6.4% Adjusted figures refer to results before exceptional items and other adjustments as noted in the Group income statement.
04 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Guests and employees love our brands Our aim is to place customer service at the heart of everything we do.
In the year, we opened a new Training Academy: established a Talent Development team: and increased investment in training.
Employees 5 percentage points retail staff engagement improvement Guests 5 percentage points increase in guest satisfaction levels See all our brands online: www.
com ourbrands Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 05 Business review continued Supporting outstanding customer service: Further developments will follow using this The core of the change programme is our firmly platform in the future, both in increasing the 47 held belief that we need to place customer efficiency of our central support functions new pubs and restaurants service at the heart of our organisation.
We and in further enhancing guest experiences.
opened, primarily Harvester, have already made good progress on this During the year, the successful launch of our Miller & Carter, Browns and journey which we will build on over the next new IT infrastructure was recognised by a Toby Carvery few years.
We have opened a new Training Retail Systems Award for Best Use of Academy at our Retail Support Centre: Technology in the sector.
established a Talent Development team to ensure we develop the right people across the Brand roll-out business: and increased investment in outlet This year, we have continued the roll-out of 17% level service, sales and kitchen training.
As a our brands across both freehold and leasehold EBITDA returns on result of this investment, staff engagement has sites.
We have opened 47 new sites, primarily improved 5 percentage points among our retail Harvester, Miller & Carter, Browns and Toby expansionary capital teams: guest satisfaction scores have improved Carvery, creating 1,500 new jobs.
We have invested over the last 5 percentage points: and 8% more of our guests also converted 10 sites, largely completing two years than last year would recommend us to their the current conversion programme.
38 of the friends and families as a great place to eat new openings were leasehold, of which 32 and drink.
were located on leisure or retail parks.
Overall EBITDA returns on expansionary capital We are delighted that our brands and support invested over the past two years were 17%.
teams are being recognised externally for their achievements.
This year, Harvester and Toby We are focused on increasing the level of Carvery topped a Technomic poll measuring returns on expansionary capital investment guest satisfaction: Alex collected a national whilst continuing to grow the estate.
We have Browns and Miller & Carter were key parts of Consumer Focus award in Germany: Vintage developed rigorous site criteria and target the expansion programme in the year, with new restaurants opening in both traditional locations Inns won a National Springboard award for town models for leisure and retail parks, using and leisure or retail parks excellence: and Harvester, All Bar One, Sizzling the lessons we have learned from our initial Pubs and Premium Country Dining all collected expansion into this area.
awards for their food development.
Outlook Ways of working: To deliver outstanding We expect the economic environment service we need to enable our restaurant and to remain challenging.
Further inflationary pub managers to become leaders and coaches and regulatory cost pressures will impact rather than implementers and administrators.
the business in the new financial year, with Our ways of working trials are aimed at giving ongoing alcohol duty increases, further food our people the skills and motivation to deliver price inflation and other cost increases, coupled outstanding customer service.
These trials with continued tightness in consumer incomes.
have now progressed from nine businesses to We will maintain our focused and disciplined over 300.
This stage is the final element of the investment in service and amenity in our estate.
trial and, subject to successful completion, full Overall, we believe our strong brands and roll-out will begin in 2013. assets together with our business transformation programme leave the Company well positioned Innovation: We will use our improved to grow further in the year ahead.
technology infrastructure to deliver better guest experiences and offer more targeted marketing at a lower annual cost.
In the past year, we have rolled out free wi-fi across all of our managed businesses in the UK and are currently launching gift cards for all of our brands.
Online bookings have increased to 1.5m from 700k in FY 2011 and visitors to our websites are up by one-third.
We were the first national retailer to launch a voucher in Apples Passbook app and we continue to innovate in social media with more targeted offers to our guests.
06 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A broader customer experience We have used our improved IT systems to deliver better guest experiences and offer more targeted marketing.
1.5m online bookings in FY 2012, up from 700k last year 33% increase in website visits Free wi-fi rolled out across all our managed businesses in the UK See all our brands online: www.
com ourbrands Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 07
