Business Review 6.7m, a decrease of 9.9m on the prior year.
In the 52 weeks to 28 January 2012, A. G. In addition, our financial strength is further BARR has grown revenue and volume ahead underpinned by our robust pension position of the soft drinks market to produce a strong which following the recent triennial valuation profit performance despite operating in a will lead to a cessation of the 2.7m per challenging environment.
Turnover grew annum deficit reduction payments previously by 6.6%, taking sales revenue to 237.0m.
paid, therefore improving our operating cash This represents an organic growth of 27.6% flow further in the financial year 2012 13. over the last three years.
The board has proposed a final dividend Cost inflation accelerated at the end of 2010 of 20.65p per share, which represents an and into 2011 12, which created margin increase in total dividend of 10.0% on the Rubicon signs up as challenges for consumer goods businesses previous year, reflecting the continued including the soft drinks sector.
A. G. BARR financial strength of the business and the cricket partner with the ECB has risen to this challenge by driving costs boards confidence in its future prospects.
We continued the development out wherever possible, employing appropriate of Rubicons association with risk management processes and increasing The Market cricket in 2011 with the sponsorship prices to ensure that margins are protected The U. K. take home soft drinks market, of the FriendsLife t20 competition, from the full impact of significantly increased as measured by Nielsen continued to supported by coverage on Sky Sports.
demonstrate its resilience and saw volume growth of 1% in the year to 28 January 2012 BRU-JET promotion Pre-tax profits, excluding exceptional items, making this the third consecutive year of IRN-BRU rewarded its drinkers with increased by 6.2% to 33.6m reflecting the positive volume growth.
The rate of growth benefits of sales volume and value enhancing in the market slowed down last year with the a phenomenal summer promotion, revenue growth and strong cost containment combined impact of poor weather across the giving away 100 seats aboard measures.
summer and changing consumer purchasing BRU-JET taking lucky winners habits driven by increasingly stretched to soak up the sun in Tenerife.
We delivered growth across both the household budgets.
Our performance was particularly encouraging Carbonates continued to drive the category in stills, which grew revenue by 9.4% against as a whole, growing by 3.3% in volume terms a market performance of 3.8%.
This was and by a significant 9.1% in value terms.
All primarily driven by growth and innovation in sub-sectors of carbonates performed well, our exotic juice drinks brands Rubicon and with the driving forces continuing to be cola: KA.
Our strategy of concentrating investment and the energy category, which grew by around the core brands IRN-BRU, Barr, 13.1% in volume terms and 16.4% in value Rubicon and KA continues to set our trading terms.
Still drinks by contrast were down agenda, drive our executional plans and 1.3% in volume terms although 3.8% up in focus our consumer and customer activities.
Fruit juice, fruit drinks and dilutes were all negative in volume terms although Our growth performance in the 52 weeks positive in value terms.
Sports drinks and to 28 January 2012 is pleasing given tough water were both positive in terms of both comparatives in the first half of the year and volume and value.
relatively poor summer weather, as well as increasing levels of competitor promotional In the U. K. grocery market, soft drinks, activity.
Across the summer months, our despite headwinds, was the fastest growing ability to compete in this environment was major category across much of the year.
hampered by the previously reported Looking forward, we forecast that the soft operational challenges specifically related drinks market will continue to gain both to the performance at our Cumbernauld customer and consumer support in 2012, production facility, where the final stages of suggesting that growth in the overall market new line commissioning were delivered late.
is likely to continue albeit at the lower end of long term volume performance.
Despite these challenges, we have accelerated our growth, with sales in the Strategy second half of the year growing at twice the Our strategy is designed to deliver long term rate of the first half.
The business responded sustainable growth in value and relies on the well to the operational difficulties experienced continued development of the following: across the summer months and has now fully recovered with the Cumbernauld facility Core brands and markets: producing in line with and in some instances Brand portfolio: ahead of our original output expectations.
Route to market: Partnerships: We finish this financial year in an even Efficient operations: stronger financial position our balance People development: and sheet is in good shape, with net debt of Sustainability.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 09
