Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 36 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Over the last four years, Premier Farnell has, by remaining focused on its strategy, delivered industry sector leading returns through the economic cycle for our shareholders.
Business review Infinancial year 2010, despite adjusted sales declining by 9.5%, the business achieved a resilient return on sales of 9.1%.
Then in2011, as growth returned to the market, we usedour knowledge, helped by the information on our industry leading element14 Community, to benefit from the increased confidence, posting adjusted sales growth of Premier Farnell has positioned 21.1%and a return on sales of11.2%.
This year, despite slowing market conditions, the business has still delivered itself to benefit from the increased anindustry leading return on sales of 11.0% a strong performance that once again demonstrates the strength role of electronics in all our lives ofourstrategy, even through the volatile economic cycles ofrecent years.
By targeting the EDE customer segment, by becoming the trusted global driving the efficiencies enabled by eCommerce channels andby internationalising our business model, our strategy source for EDEs.
hasgiven us resilience and agility to react both to slower growth through cost actions and swiftly capitalise on growthopportunities.
This year, despite slowing market conditions, the business has still deliveredan industry leading return onsales of 11.0%.
Note: This Business review is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and is framed around the principles and guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews published in Nicholas Cadbury Chief Financial Officer the UK by the Accounting Standards Board.
Its purpose is to provide information which is significant @premierfarnell Premier Farnell has been apioneer to understanding the development, performance and position of the Group, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and to include the keyperformance indicators KPIs used by the inexploring the benefits of commerce and community.
Group to monitor this development, performance and position.
Additionally, the Business review isintended to highlight trends, where identifiable, in factors which affect the development, performance and position of the Group.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Premier Farnell has positioned itself to benefit from the Akron Brass, an industry leader in the manufacturing of Introduction increased role of electronics in all our lives by becoming the high-performance fire-fighting apparatus, is the only remaining The Premier Farnell Group consists of two divisions: the trusted global source for EDEs.
The mega-trends that are business in the Groups Industrial Products Division IPD.
Marketing and Distribution Division MDD and the Industrial powering the proliferation of electronic devices globally has Thisfollows the disposal of TPC Wire & Cable, a distributor Products Division IPD.
put our EDE customers under increased market pressures ofelectrical wire, cable and connectors, on the first day of touse the latest technologies and bring products to market thefinancial year.
In 2012, IPD accounted for 6.3% of sales MDD comprises five businesses which distribute a wide range more quickly, while complying with changes in environmental and 7.8% of operating profit before head office costs.
of electronic components, equipment, Maintenance, Repair legislation.
Premier Farnell is meeting our customers demands and Operations MRO products and development software During 2012, the Group remained focused on executing for speed of delivery and breadth of product, innovating for and design kits.
The businesses serve commercial, industrial ourstrategy for long term profitable growth whilst remaining customers through the web, and providing the information, and public sector markets in Europe, North America and mindful of volatile market conditions.
Our sales grew by 1.6% services and software that they need to bring their design AsiaPacific.
In 2012, MDD represented 93.7% of sales and year-on-year and adjusted operating profit was 107.3million, ideato life.
92.2% ofadjusted operating profit before head office costs.
the same as the prior year at constant exchange rates.
As our customers behaviour and needs change, we have Customers include Electronic Design Engineers EDEs, A pillar of our strategy has been increasing the proportion enhanced our online capabilities and technology solutions, smallscale production units, purchasing professionals and ofsales via eCommerce channels.
This year, eCommerce transforming the business to best support our customers maintenance and repair engineers.
In aggregate, the MDD penetration grew to account for 55.0% of MDD sales, up from bothnow and for the future.
businesses have over two million customer contacts.
This channel not only provides our customers customers want a high service partner who can meet their Our web presence, the first mover advantage through our with access to high quality, valuable product information and needs for depth and breadth of product, including the latest onlineCommunity, our breadth of product and our logistics efficient transactions, but also allows us to manage process technologies, information that they can trust on the product capability give us a competitive advantage over the 80% and cost efficiencies that help drive the profitability of the and fast, reliable delivery.
ofthemarket currently serviced by our smaller regional business, making it resilient and shaping it for the future.
competitors who areless able to fulfil customers increasingly Premier Farnell has been a pioneer in exploring the benefits A pillar of our strategy has been demanding expectations.
Our distinctive proposition ofthe convergence of commerce and community.
As such, Premier Farnell is well increasing the proportion of sales launched our element14 Community, which allows customers positioned toincrease themarket share gains that we have around the globe to share ideas and work together on their viaeCommerce channels.
made throughthe implementation of the strategy to date in designs and to click through to buy products from our sites.
This has led to a closer relationship between Premier Farnell We meet these customers needs by providing in excess of and the 3.8million visitors that came to the element14 465,000 different stocked products and access to over four Community in the past 12 months and higher click through million more: extensive information on the products and further tobuy rates than on the transactional websites.
resources in our online environments: 99.6% shipped same ornext day to meet our customers fast delivery requirements and increasingly, specialised value-adding services.
These customers place many small orders, with the average order values in each region of approximately 260 in North America and 160 in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 38 OvERvIEW STRATEGIC FOCuS BuSInESS REvIEW GOvERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEMEnTS Business review continued We continued our investment in the web this year, launching The Group achieved strong first quarter sales growth of 8.3%.
The following sections cover only the MDD businesses the Knode, our intelligent online search and knowledge tool However, against the background of exceptional comparator onthebasis that this Division represented 93.7% of sales.
Over the coming year, we will upgrade growth rates last year, Premier Farnell was amongst the first TheIndustrial Products Division is covered in the relevant our web platform delivering significant enhancements to our companies to see the onset of a more challenging economic section of the Review of Operations.
online customer experience, including best-in-class browsing climate.
We acted swiftly to protect profitability by implementing and search functionality, a faster more refined online a programme to remove 17million against our planned costs Our business purchasing flow and integrated industry specific web tools.
in the second half of the year, split between volumetric and Premier Farnell is a leading high service, multi-channel incentive savings, actions to curb discretionary spend and the A key part of our strategy is to provide a greater share of distributor of technology products and solutions for electronic removal of structural cost from the business.
The cost actions design engineers requirements through Services Beyond system design, maintenance and repair.
We purchase reduced overheads by 9.1million year-on-year or 6.3million Product.
We have continued to develop our proposition of electronic components in large volumes from over 3,500 atconstant exchange rates, before one-off restructuring costs.
software and services for engineers through the Knode and by oftheworlds leading suppliers.
Our customers, who include acquiring Embest, a provider of embedded development tools Electronic Design Engineers, Maintenance, Repair and We continue to control costs closely and engineering design services in China.
CadSoft, which Operations engineers and purchasing professionals, buy wasacquired in 2009, launched version 6 of its award-winning andadvance specific actions that smallquantities of components, other products as well as EAGLE PCB design software.
This latest development software and services.
Our customers attribute significant furthershape our business around provides design engineers increased flexibility and efficiency value to our proposition because we provide a high level when designing the layout of their PCB.
theweb, taking advantage of strategic ofservice by delivering products same or next-day, offering arich online customer experience, distributing supporting In the second half of the year, the economic environment eCommerce efficiencies.
product information and providing end-to-end support for became more uncertain.
Over this period we saw growth ourEDE customers through the design cycle.
inthe late cycle MRO categories and a slowdown in the We continue to control costs closely and advance specific salesof EDE as companies prolong the life of their equipment actions that further shape our business around the web, Delivering high service is at the centre of our business model.
and focus their expenditure in new product research and taking advantage of strategic eCommerce efficiencies.
Our profitability is founded on maintaining strong and stable development.
Over the short term this has increased the MRO Forexample, we have recently entered a period of consultation gross margins, reflecting the premium that customers attribute customer segment in the business sales mix, an opportunity to establish a best-in-class outbound sales centre in Krakow to our service.
The returns that we achieve are enhanced and that we have capitalised on through our focus on profitable, to complement our strong European eCommerce penetration protected by managing our cost base as we take advantage vertical market segments such as Robotics, Marine and Oil levels.
This will enable us to complete ongoing structural ofthe efficiencies that come with interacting with customers and Gas.
Nevertheless, the long term opportunities are higher changes to our less efficient European centres while improving via the web.
This means that although profit is fundamentally in the EDE segment due to managements belief in its higher customer service.
linked to sales performance, the strategy provides the long term growth of 6%8% and greater profitability.
business with resilience as profitability can be protected Despite this focus on costs, we are investing in our future.
through the cost actions that emanate from our strategy The business has also continued to expand in international Wehave placed particular emphasis on investments that forprofitable growth.
growth markets despite tough market conditions.
These improve our customer proposition, such as our web markets nowaccount for 23.2% of MDD sales, moving platforms, as we take significant steps to enhance our Our business model allows a high conversion of profits towards our goal of 30%.
In the growth markets of Eastern leadership in the digital space.
tocash, which can be invested back into our business Europe and India we have experienced sales growth of 29.2% anddistributed to shareholders.
Last year, we released an updated set of key performance and 37.1%, respectively.
The Groups performance against these KPIscan be seen on pages 18 and 19 of this report.
