08 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We target in excess of 10 per cent NAV growth per share per year and, over the seven-year period to end-2012, have achieved in excess of 15 per cent.
Simon Lockett Chief Executive Q We focus on growing the underlying value of the business through What is Premiers disciplined investment in high quality projects.
Our skill set and business model experience give us the confidence and capability to take on complex and growth operated development projects, typically offshore and utilising strategy?
We believe in offering our investors and our employees continuing growth opportunities reflected in rising production targets.
We will judge ourselves, and invite others to judge us, by the growth in our net asset value NAV per share year-on-year without relying on a rising oil price.
We target in excess of 10 per cent NAV growth per share per year and, over the seven-year period to end-2012, have achieved in excess of 15 per cent.
Going forward we will source this growth from the development of existing assets, new acquisitions and material organic exploration, while maintaining a strong balance sheet so that we are well placed to take advantage of attractive opportunities as they arise.
Q In the five-year period since 2007, we have generated impressive How do growth in all key financial and operational metrics which define our you assess business.
Our growing undeveloped reserves and resource base will Premiers overall support substantial future growth.
performance over the last Growth five years?
2007 2012 % Annualised % Revenues 144 19.5 Cash flow 200 24.6 Production 61 10.0 Reserves and resources 109 15.9 Return on capital 98 14.6 Our growth rates have significantly exceeded the 54 per cent rise in the oil price over the same five-year period.
The majority of this growth has been financed by the re-investment of internally generated cash flows or new debt funding.
With some US$1.1 billion of cash and undrawn facilities on hand and a gearing ratio stable at 36 per cent, our balance sheet continues to provide a strong platform for further material growth.
Q Reservoir performance from all our producing fields in 2012 was Were you encouraging and generated a 43 per cent increase in working interest pleased with production year-on-year.
Premiers 2012 production Working interest Entitlement performance?
We continue to work on the re-development of the Kyle field in the UK which has been shut down since December 2011 following a severe North Sea storm.
The supply of additional gas to the Indonesian domestic market which would have generated further gas sales remains under discussion with the Indonesian authorities.
These two factors reduced 2012 production by around 4,000 boepd, though value will be recovered by a combination of insurance proceeds and future production.
Equipment issues at our Chim So field in Vietnam, notably with power supply, prevented the full application of water injection, limiting our production rates from the field.
This is being addressed and overall the field continues to produce above the level originally anticipated in our field development plan.
First oil from the Huntington field is expected at the end of March, in line with our 2013 budget.
After a ramp up period, the field is expected to produce 25-30 kboepd gross, following a successful development drilling programme.
The smaller Rochelle field Premier share: 15 per cent is now expected on-stream around mid-year after storm damage to the initial development well.
The rig is currently drilling the Rochelle West well and will return to Rochelle East after first gas.
Q Further significant milestones were achieved within our development What milestones portfolio during the year, especially on our operated development did Premier projects.
The Pelikan and Naga projects, which will sustain and grow achieve in 2012 our position in the Singapore gas market, received development with respect to approvals and will add to existing volumes in the Natuna Sea from its development 2014 onwards.
The Dua and Solan fields received project sanction portfolio?
during the course of the year and are progressing well towards first oil in 2014.
On our operated Catcher development in the UK North Sea, concept selection was formally agreed in December and various tenders are now under way for key contracts.
We expect to submit the field development plan for approval to the UK Government once these tender processes are complete.
Targeted first oil date will be driven by the contract negotiation process, notably for the floating production, storage and offtake vessel FPSO.
Elsewhere, we increased our equity interest in the Bream area in Norway and are working with the revised partnership group to finalise development plans.
In Mauritania, the partnership submitted a development plan for the Banda gas field, though this remains subject to final agreement on a gas sales contract.
Q In line with our stated strategy, we were delighted to acquire What are the operatorship and a significant equity interest in the Sea Lion key opportunities development project in the Falkland Islands during the course of the and challenges year.
With some 350 million barrels of appraised oil in the Sea Lion associated with field and nearby discoveries, a clear fit with our development skills your entry into and an attractive fiscal regime, this is a substantial opportunity for the Falkland Premier.
It is also exciting to work in an environment where there is Islands?
such strong support from both the Falkland Islands and the UK Governments.
The location of the islands raises logistical and infrastructure challenges.
However, the resourcefulness of our own project team members and that of the Falkland Islanders gives us every confidence that these can be more than adequately addressed.
Building on the work that our partner Rockhopper Exploration plc Rockhopper had already commenced, we expect to make key development concept decisions during the course of 2013, with final development approval targeted for mid-2014.
This should facilitate first oil from the Sea Lion field during 2017.
Whilst the geology of the North Falklands Basin is complex, we also see a large number of prospects and leads which offer potential for future exploration.
We are working closely with the Rockhopper team to define the targets for the next exploration programme, now expected in late 2014 or early 2015.
Q The Falkland Islands transaction contributed significantly to a 51 per How did your cent increase in reserves and resources year-on-year.
While the Sea reserve and Lion field has been fully appraised, our reserve booking policy resource base dictates that resources associated with the field will not be booked change over into the reserves category until further development milestones have 2012?
As at 31 December 2012, proven and probable 2P reserves, on a working interest basis, were 292 mmboe 2011: 285 mmboe giving a reserve replacement ratio of 134 per cent.
Proven and probable 2P reserves and 2C 2P reserves contingent resources mmboe mmboe 1 January 2012 285 513 Production 21 21 Net additions and revisions 28 281 31 December 2012 292 773 The percentage of liquids in total reserves and resources has increased to 67 per cent 2011: 51 per cent.
Given that the price we receive for our Indonesian gas volumes exported to Singapore is linked to oil prices, around 88 per cent of our resource base is effectively oil-price driven.
Our current development portfolio is dominated by oil-based projects.
Q Premiers exploration programme over time has generated notable What successes successes.
Indeed, the largest projects in our portfolio our gas have Premiers reserves in the Natuna Sea, our Chim So oil field in Vietnam, our exploration Catcher field in the UK come from Premier exploration drilling programme initiatives.
In 2009 we set a goal of adding 200 mmboe of net 2P generated?
Based on discoveries to date, the follow-on potential which they have generated and the programme How would still to come, we are confident that this objective will be achieved.
you describe your exploration We added four discoveries to the portfolio during 2012.
The Carnaby strategy going discovery adds additional reserves on the Catcher Block and is forward?
encouraging for the ongoing exploitation of the smaller accumulations around the Catcher field itself.
The Catcher area near-field exploration has commenced in 2013 with the drilling of the Bonneville prospect.
The Anoa Deep well, underneath our existing Anoa facilities in the Natuna Sea, opened up a new play, the Lama play, which extends across a wide area within Premiers Natuna Sea acreage.
Plans to follow up on this success with a new drilling campaign in 2014 and 2015 are advanced.
In Pakistan, two notable successes were recorded with the K-30 well on the Kadanwari lease and the BBN-1 well on the Badhra field.
These two discoveries added 116 billion cubic feet bcf gross and have both been brought into production post-discovery.
However, we recognise the need to update the portfolio as prospects are drilled out and as areas like the UK North Sea become mature.
This is why we have taken steps to add new areas in Kenya, Iraq, the Falkland Islands, deeper water acreage in Vietnam and the Mandal High area in Norway.
We believe in targeting play-opening opportunities which, on success, will deliver not just one discovery but will open up a series of prospects and leads.
Success in any of these areas would lead to multiple opportunities and reduced risk over time.
Such new acreage additions in 2012 were significant with a total 2 of 30 new licences, amounting to net acreage gain of 11,800 km.
Q In 2013, Premier plans to drill 15 exploration and appraisal wells.
This What is the includes five high impact exploration wells targeting in excess of 150 outlook for mmboe, including the Luno II well which is currently drilling on the Premiers 2013 south west margin of the Utsira High, and the Lacewing well, Premiers exploration first high pressure high temperature well in the North Sea.
In addition, drilling we look forward to the results of the Kuda Laut and Singa Laut wells in programme?
Indonesia and the Ca Voi exploration well in Vietnam.
The latter is a true frontier exploration well with the potential to open up a new play in Eastern Vietnam.
We also hope to replicate our near field exploration success achieved in 2012 by the drilling of six near field wells in 2013, including the Matang well in Indonesia and the Bonneville well in the UK North Sea, both of which are currently drilling.
Q We continuously review the structure of our organisation to get the You underwent most out of our assets and to optimise project delivery.
During 2012 some we reorganised our teams into six country units UK, Norway, organisational Indonesia, Vietnam, Pakistan and the Falkland Islands reflecting the change in 2012. growing critical mass of those units and the need to have strong local Why?
presence in all our key business areas.
At the same time our exploration teams now report directly to a central exploration function, pulling together all the technical skills in the group into one team and allowing us to make better informed choices about where to allocate our exploration funds.
We continue to believe that our organisational model strong local units supported by a head office team, focused on critical decision points will deliver our ambitious medium and long-term goals.
Simon Lockett Chief Executive Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 09 10 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS REVIEW Falkland Islands PREMIERS ENTRY INTO THE FALKLAND ISLANDS WAS COMPLETED IN THE FOURTH QUARTER OF 2012.
OUR PRIMARY FOCUS IS TO DEVELOP THE ESTIMATED 300 MMBOE SEA LION FIELD, CURRENTLY TARGETED FOR PROJECT SANCTION MID-2014.
WORKING CLOSELY WITH ROCKHOPPER, WE HAVE ALSO DEFINED THE LEAD AND PROSPECT INVENTORY SUCH THAT A MINIMUM OF THREE EXPLORATION WELLS ARE NOW PLANNED FOR 2014 2015.
Highlights and achievements Completed acquisition of 60 per cent of Rockhoppers licence interests in the Falkland Islands Assumed operatorship of the 300 mmboe Sea Lion project Lead and prospect inventory defined ahead of a 2014 2015 exploration drilling campaign Premier interests Tom Clarence-Smith Sea Lion main field Business Unit Manager Premier Oil Falkland Islands Sea Lion satellites One of our greatest achievements last year was our successful entry into the Falkland Islands through the farm-in for 60 per cent of Rockhoppers licence interests in the North Falklands Basin.
The current focus of the Falkland Islands Business Unit is the development of the Sea Lion field and the exploitation of the remaining exploration potential in the basin.
Building development capability DEVELOPMENT In July 2012, Premier agreed to farm-in to 60 per cent of Rockhoppers licence interests in the Falkland Islands, including the Sea Lion development project.
Following the approval of the Falkland Islands Government, the deal was completed in October with an initial cash payment of US$231 million.
In addition, Premier will pay an exploration carry of up to US$48 million and, subject to field development plan approval, a development carry of up to US$722 million.
These are fully-funded from a combination of existing cash resources, facilities and cash flow from operations.
Premier and Rockhopper also agreed jointly to pursue exploration opportunities in the Falkland Islands and analogous plays in selected areas offshore Southern Africa.
The Sea Lion field is located on the Falklands Plateau, 220 kilometres north of the Falkland Islands and lies in 450 metres of water.
The geological setting is a north-south Atlantic failed rift with primarily early Cretaceous to Tertiary fill in a typical half graben structure with a large bounding fault in the east.
The Sea Lion accumulation is close to the eastern margin.
Stacked Early Cretaceous lacustrine fan reservoirs contain waxy 28 degree API crude oil.
Oil-in-place is estimated to be over 1.1 billion barrels with 300 million barrels gross recoverable.
Including the discoveries at Casper and Casper South, the transaction added approximately 230 million barrels of net contingent resources.
The Sea Lion field is expected to be developed by drilling and completing subsea wells in manifold clusters tied back via flexible risers to an anchored FPSO.
Water injection and gas and produced water handling facilities will be provided on the FPSO.
Gas will be used for fuel or re-injected to boost recovery.
Shuttle tankers will collect the crude oil and ship to international markets.
Gross estimated capital expenditure costs remain unchanged at US$5 billion.
Premier will fund its share from rising cash flows.
On 1 November, Premier formally became operator of all of the licence interests previously operated by Rockhopper, thereby becoming the operator of the Sea Lion development project.
A new dedicated project team is undertaking detailed planning of development drilling and the specification and sourcing of production facilities prior to commencing front-end engineering design.
Notably, an FPSO market enquiry, which included visits to ship yards, has been undertaken to assess options of conversions or new builds to meet the design life criteria.
Technical reviews have also been undertaken to study the option of gas lift instead of hydraulic submersible pumps while design studies of flow line systems have been completed.
Health, safety and environmental management plans are being set to safeguard the development and operations phases.
Concept selection is targeted for mid-2013 while project sanction is planned for mid-2014 with first oil targeted for third quarter of 2017.
Once on-stream, the Sea Lion development is expected to add 50,000 barrels of oil per day bopd of production net to Premier.
Falkland Islands continued EXPLORATION Since the announcement of the farm-in in July 2012, Premier has been working closely with Rockhopper to define the prospect inventory within its acreage in the North Falklands Basin.
To date, we have technical agreement on a programme of between three and six exploration wells for the next drilling programme, which is targeted for 2014 15, subject to rig availability.
Wells currently included in the proposed programme include play-opening wells targeting prospects beneath the existing Sea Lion sands, prospects from independent feeder systems along the east flank of the basin, as well as Sea Lion look-alike prospects.
Premier has received notification from the Falkland Islands Government that licences PL023 and PL024 Premier interest 60 per cent have been extended to November 2013 pending further seismic interpretation work and that licences PL003 and PL004 Premier interest 4.5 per cent have been extended to May 2016 with the addition of a one well commitment.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 11 Outlook Sea Lion development planning progressing to mid-year 2013 concept selection: project sanction planned for mid-2014 with first oil targeted for the third quarter of 2017 A minimum of a three exploration well programme planned for 2014 2015 12 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS REVIEW continued Indonesia OUR KEY ASSET IN INDONESIA REMAINS THE OPERATED NATUNA SEA BLOCK A.
WITH BOTH FURTHER DEVELOPMENT AND EXPLORATION ACTIVITY IN THE AREA, WE ARE PLANNING TO BUILD ON OUR EXISTING STRONG SHARE OF THE SINGAPORE GAS MARKET.
THROUGH OUR INTERESTS IN BLOCK A ACEH AND AN ONGOING PROGRAMME OF EXPLORATION NEW VENTURE WORK, WE ARE SEEKING TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR LONG-ESTABLISHED RELATIONSHIPS AND GAS MARKETING EXPERTISE TO INCREASE OUR IN-COUNTRY PRESENCE.
Highlights and achievements 2012 gas sales from Block A to Singapore averaged 217 BBtud, up 35 per cent Pelikan and Naga projects sanctioned Exploration success at Anoa Deep opening up the Lama play Roberto Lorato President Premier Oil Indonesia 2012 saw the sanction of our Pelikan and Naga fields which will build on our strong performing Anoa and Gajah Baru interests.
The Anoa Deep discovery offers significant potential for the future.
Building on strong share of Singapore gas market PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT During 2012, the Premier-operated Natuna Sea Block A Block A sold an overall average of 217 billion British thermal units per day BBtud gross 2011: 161 BBtud from its gas export facilities, a 35 per cent increase, due to a full-year of production from the new Gajah Baru facility and the established Anoa field.
The Anoa facility continued to increase its market share of sales under the first gas sales agreement GSA1 delivering 7.5 per cent over its contractual market share of 36.9 per cent.
In addition, three Anoa development wells were drilled and put on production in 2012, adding 36 million standard cubic feet per day mmscfd of gas deliverability.
The non-operated Kakap Block contributed a further 33 BBtud gross 2011: 42 BBtud.
Gross liquids production from the Block A Anoa field was steady at an average 2,400 bopd 2011: 2,400 bopd with a further 3,500 bopd 2011: 3,400 bopd from Kakap.
Overall, production from Indonesia was up substantially to 14,200 boepd 2011: 11,450 boepd on a working interest basis.
The Pelikan and Naga projects, also on Block A, were sanctioned in April 2012 and are now in full execution mode.
The contract for the engineering, procurement, construction and installation of two wellhead platforms and connecting pipelines was awarded in May 2012.
The two projects will involve drilling six new development wells to develop an expected 150 bcf of gas reserves.
First gas will be delivered in 2014 to supply existing Indonesia and Singapore sales contracts.
In parallel, a major brownfield development project, to upgrade the compression facilities on the Block A Anoa gas production facility, has also progressed through its first phase.
In 2012, two cantilever deck extensions, housing a new gas compressor and turbine generator, were fabricated and installed on the Anoa platform.
2013 will see a second major offshore campaign, during which the existing compression equipment will be reconfigured for low pressure production.
The project, when complete in September 2013, will extend the field plateau for another three years and develop 200 bcf of gross field reserves.
On the non-operated Block A Aceh, work continued on the gas development project.
The focus has been on improving the economics such that the project can be sanctioned by year-end.
The tendering process for most facilities is complete with current efforts towards securing higher gas prices with end buyers and the Indonesian Government progressing well.
First gas is targeted for third quarter of 2015.
EXPLORATION Premier carried out exploration in five production sharing contracts PSC in Indonesia: Natuna Sea Block A, Kakap, Tuna, Block A Aceh and Buton.
In 2012, Premier drilled three exploration wells on its Indonesian acreage, one of which was successful and opened up a new play.
The Anoa Deep-1 well, drilled as an exploratory tail to the Anoa WL-5X development well, discovered gas below the Anoa field.
The well flowed over 17 mmscfd of gas from fractured sandstones of the Lama formation.
Indonesia continued The discovery of gas in the Lama sands provides additional gas resources that can be dedicated to existing gas sales agreements and opens up a new proven play type which can be pursued across Premiers Block A and adjacent West Natuna areas.
Prospect development continued in Natuna Sea Block A with the overall prospect inventory being upgraded through seismic reprocessing on selected prospects and prospect development in the newly proven Lama play.
Premier expects to start to drill out these prospects in 2014 15.
The Biawak Besar-1 well on Natuna Sea Block A was drilled to test a stratigraphic trap which was assessed on seismic data to have a good possibility of containing gas.
Biawak Besar-1 encountered good reservoir development and gas shows but was not deemed commercial.
In the Buton PSC, Premier participated in the Benteng-1 exploration well which was aimed at discovering oil in limestone reservoirs in the Cretaceous Tobelo formation.
While the well was successful in proving an oil presence in the area with oil shows in the Miocene Tondo limestones, no commercial oil accumulation was found.
Premier and partners will not continue exploring in the Buton PSC and the licence will be relinquished shortly.
In the Block A Aceh PSC in Northern Sumatra, the Matang-1 exploration well was spudded in late November 2012.
The objective of the Matang-1 well is to discover gas resources in a Miocene Peutu limestone reservoir.
The drilling of the top seal sequence has taken longer than expected with the results now anticipated by the end of March 2013.
In 2011 exploration wells Gajah Laut Utara-1 and Belut Laut-1 were drilled in the Tuna PSC to test the Miocene and Oligocene potential of two prospects.
The wells did not find commercial hydrocarbons but, utilising the information gained, two new prospects, Kuda Laut and Singa Laut, were matured in 2012.
These prospects are approved for drilling in 2013 with the Kuda Laut-1 and Singa Laut-1 wells expected to spud in the second half of the year.
During the year Premier maintained an active programme of exploration new ventures work aimed at capturing new licences.
This work entailed a number of regional basin studies as well as three formal joint studies carried out in conjunction with the Indonesian Government agency MIGAS.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 13 Outlook Project sanction of Block A Aceh in 2013 Block A total sales capacity increasing to 400 BBtud: Pelikan and Naga expected on-stream in 2014 Active exploration programme with the upcoming Kuda and Singa Laut wells on the Tuna Block 2014 drilling campaign targeting the new Lama play following up on the success at Anoa Deep
