Revenues have continued to increase this year Business despite social unrest in the north of Nigeria and the impact from the fuel duty subsidy reduction.
review Product innovations Robb Africa Robb, one of Africas leading brands in the medicaments category had a number of initiatives to sustain market leadership and enter new subcategories.
Robb Super Intense was relaunched as Hot Robb with new packaging and a campaign with Nigerias football Premier League.
In addition, Robb Menthol sweets were launched into the market giving Robb access to the soothing throat drops segment.
Regional highlights Overall increase in revenue of 6.8% reflecting a strong first half but a second half affected by the social unrest in the north of Nigeria and the impact from the fuel duty subsidy reduction Profits lower as a result of the above as well as higher raw material costs Canoe Construction of the palm oil refinery with Wilmar on track for completion To consolidate its by the end of the calendar year position as a leading laundry care brand, Canoe, known for its laundry soap, launched Canoe detergent into Key brands the fabric care market at a premium to our Zip detergent brand.
This introduction has the objective to increase our share of branded detergents with a premium offering to meet consumer fabric care needs.
Revenue Operating profit before m exceptional items m 400 60 362.2 358.7 339.1 325.2 300 42.2 41.0 268.4 40 39.5 33.6 33.5 200 20 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 PZ Cussons Plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 PZ Wilmar progress As announced in the last financial year, expansion of our presence in the Food and Nutrition category in Nigeria through our food ingredients joint venture PZ Wilmar with Singapore based Wilmar International Limited is progressing.
Over the course of the year PZ Wilmar has made excellent progress in its development of a range of oil based branded food products.
Central to PZ Wilmars strategy is the construction of a palm oil refinery in Nigeria, in which our investment to date is 18 million.
Work on the refinery is proceeding well and in line with the expected timeframe to completion within two years.
Commissioning of the refinery and launch of the range of branded food products are both anticipated in the forthcoming financial year.
m 18 total cumulative PZ investment to date into PZ Wilmar In Nigeria, revenue growth was strong during the first half of In Electricals, the focus has continued to be on the core range of the financial year underpinned by a stable economic and political fridges, freezers and air conditioners sold through the HPZ joint environment following the presidential elections in April 2011. venture with Haier, as well as the range of generators which are During the second half of the year, trading was significantly separately imported.
During the year, a further HT Cool World affected by two key issues.
First, social instability in the north store was opened taking the number to seven, with further stores resulted in lower sales in those areas with trade affected by planned in the new financial year.
Second, the partial removal of the fuel duty subsidy in January led to a week-long national Nutricima, the Food and Nutrition joint venture with Glanbia Plc, strike which adversely affected sales and costs during the period.
has seen revenue growth of almost 20% in the year to 72 million Whilst half of the fuel subsidy was subsequently reinstated, despite tough trading conditions.
The brand portfolio has now consumer disposable income has been affected by a doubling been extended to five brands: Nunu, Coast, Bliss, Olympic and of fuel costs resulting in lower levels of demand.
Continued increases in the cost ongoing disruption in the north, the economic outlook for the of milk and the weaker exchange rate have adversely affected country remains encouraging with positive GDP growth rates margins, with the Groups share of profit being broadly flat for expected to continue.
During the year, the Naira weakened slightly the year at 0.3 million 2011: 0.4 million.
against the US Dollar and Sterling accounting for 1.5 million of the Groups exchange loss of 2 million.
Construction of the palm oil refinery with Wilmar is on track with completion due by the end of the calendar year, with a new During the year, the Groups holding in its listed Nigerian consumer food ingredients brand to be launched to coincide with subsidiary was increased further from 66.8% to 68.8% at a the start of production in early 2013. cost of 8.6 million.
Ghana and Kenya have continued to perform well with revenue The Group continues to operate in four categories in Nigeria, and profitability ahead of the prior year.
In Ghana, the Nutrition and namely Personal Care, Home Care, Electricals and Food Electricals portfolios have continued to grow and a further HT Cool and Nutrition.
World retail outlet was opened taking the number to four.
In Personal Care and Home Care, the focus has remained on brand renovation across the portfolio of soaps, detergents, babycare and medicaments.
The significant year-on-year increase in raw material costs adversely affected margins in the first half although this began to ease during the second half as a result of price increases and margin improvement initiatives.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11
