Business review The Groups strategy of continuing to renovate and continued innovate its brand portfolios has ensured market shares have continued to increase in Europe.
Product innovations Imperial Leather Europe This market leading brand was refreshed with new contemporary graphics in its range of bar soaps and innovative Foamburst shower product.
The top-selling Limited Editions products across shower gels and bath foams continued to offer consumers sensual fragrances and luxurious skin benets.
Original Source Regional highlights The brand was Robust performance in the UK Washing and Bathing division driven by relaunched with stronger brand innovation and renovation despite competitive trading conditions packaging graphics, hard-hitting claims to Strong trading in Poland across both Home Care and Personal Wash further strengthen its point of difference and the line-up enhanced by new seasonal editions.
In addition the brand was launched in Poland into the leading Rossmann drugstore chain.
Key brands E Poland E, our leading Polish household brand, was rejuvenated this year with a major relaunch Revenue Operating profit before in detergent powders m exceptional items m with the new E Soft 400 60 Water Active Plus range 51.6 and new formulation 337.9 49.6 305.5 46.2 and packaging in its 300 288.1 280.8 40.9 fabric conditioner range.
40 235.8 significant market 32.6 200 success was also driven by the Shine with E 20 consumer promotion 100 that was a massive hit with consumers and trade customers alike.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 PZ Cussons Plc 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Carex Protect Plus Cussons Mum & Me Building on its strong consumer and technical expertise, Cussons Mum & Me is a Personal Care range with Carex launched a ground breaking new range called 22 products across three key stages: Bump: New Protect Plus in 2011.
The new products deliver two-hour Mum: and Baby.
The novel range was developed by antibacterial protection, protecting consumers from PZ Cussons to guide mums through the journey from bacteria even after washing.
There are three hand washes bump to baby, addressing the key needs of mums tailored to different skin types: Original: Sensitive: and and babies, Sleep, Skin and Hair.
Designed in-house Moisturising, for those with dry skin.
There is also a hand in conjunction with both experts and mothers, and gel in the range, convenient for when on the go.
The accessing the Groups existing expertise in babycare launch builds further on the brands number one leadership products in Indonesia, the range was taken from concept position in handwash and quickly follows the recent first to shelf in 14 months.
The innovative range features to market claim, works in seconds which now appears products that have superior reassurance including: on key products in the rest of the Carex range.
Launched being hypoallergenic: having paediatrician approval: in the 1980s, the brand has a long standing heritage as the support from strong consumer claims: and backing first antibacterial handwash and has continued to drive from clinically proven results.
Cussons Mum & Me category growth through first to market innovation.
launched into the UK market in June 2012 through a 6 million campaign utilising extensive 360 marketing via TV, press and digital media.
Additionally, through Bounty, the No.
1 UK Parenting Club, a targeted sampling campaign will be executed and over 1.8 million samples will be distributed via a hospital maternity department product placement programme.
months 14 from concept to market delivery of Cussons Mum & Me Post period end, the division announced the launch of an important The UK Washing and Bathing division produced a robust new brand, Cussons Mum & Me, a range of personal care products performance with revenue and profitability ahead of the prior year specifically designed for mothers and babies.
The reaction from despite competitive trading conditions in the retailers with high retailers to the launch has been extremely positive.
Whilst consumers remained cautious with lower disposable income, brand innovation and Trading in Poland has been strong with growth in revenue and renovation across the portfolio resulted in another year of growth.
profitability across both the Home Care brand E and the Imperial Leather remains the largest brand in the portfolio and new Personal Wash portfolio of Luksja, Carex and Original Source.
packaging and fragrances were introduced during the year across the portfolio of bar soap, bath and shower gel ranges whilst the Profitability in Greece is lower than the previous year due to unique Foamburst shower product continues to attract a loyal weak consumer demand as a result of the domestic economic consumer following.
Carex has continued to maintain its position as crisis although the results are immaterial to the Group as a the UKs leading antibacterial handwash with Carex Protect Plus whole.
Despite this, the focus continues to be on growing the launched during the year with a new technology that kills bacteria value-added categories of butter, cheese and spreads.
for up to two hours after use.
Original Source was the fastest growing brand in the portfolio with significant new product launches in the year across shower gel, handwash, bath, mens and hair ranges.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 15
