Business review The Indonesian Cussons Baby range has continued to continued grow whilst the Australian business has faced a number of challenges.
Product innovations Cussons Kids Asia The Cussons Kids range continues to grow in Indonesia after prior year relaunches.
The range has grown 32% year-on-year in a previously untapped market segment and is marketed in Indonesia as the trusted followon range of products to the successful Cussons Baby range.
It has rejuvenated its packaging and product presentation.
The characters on the Cussons Kids portfolio were developed to depict child role models Regional highlights allowing engagement with the consumers as Continued positive momentum in Indonesia with revenue and profit well as their parents.
from the market leading Cussons Baby range ahead of the prior year Overall revenue and profits lower due to the challenging trading conditions in the Australian Home Care category Radiant Laundry The Radiant Laundry range including detergent, powder and Key brands liquid was relaunched in Australia.
Radiant Liquid unit dose capsules were the first advanced liquid formulation product to be launched in the Australian market.
Delivering premium performance and creating brand Revenue Operating profit before differentiation through m exceptional items m stronger brand claim, the 200 20 advanced range removes seven day dried in stains.
176.1 17.5 165.6 Further extensions and 158.8 150 15 a pack size renovation 135.0 13.0 to the core liquid range 116.0 is planned later this 10.2 10.2 100 10 financial year to ensure 8.3 brand relevance and 50 5 penetration in the fast growing liquid segment.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 PZ Cussons Plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 In Australia, the trading environment in the Home Care category In Indonesia, the positive momentum has continued with another worsened during the year as retailers devoted greater shelf space in year of growth in revenue and profitability.
The market leading store to private label products, resulting in branded suppliers having Cussons Baby range has continued to grow through portfolio to trade with lower volumes and reduced margins.
Revenue in improvements and distribution expansion.
Cussons Baby has Australia declined 27% resulting in the business moving from profit clearly established itself as the number one brand in its segment to loss for the year.
Measures to address the underperformance with a market share significantly ahead of its closest competitor of the Australian business have been under way for some months and is well placed to capitalise on the growth in the economy and are proving successful with the business moving back into and a population of circa 240 million people.
Other brands in the profitability on a monthly basis towards the end of the financial year.
portfolio, namely Imperial Leather, Morning Fresh and Carex, These measures included moving to a variable cost model via the have also performed well.
closure of the local manufacturing facility.
Revenue and profitability of the Personal Care and Beauty portfolios grew year on year and Of our smaller businesses within the Asian segment, revenue and these remain the focus growth areas for the future.
profitability in Thailand were lower than the previous year as a result of disruption caused by the significant flooding that affected the country, whilst results in The Middle East were also adversely affected by social and political unrest in that region.
% 22 revenue growth of Cussons Baby range in 2012 Indonesia Cussons Baby range Cussons Baby continues to grow significantly in Indonesia after the prior year relaunch.
The range has grown 22% year-on-year, strengthening its market leading position in the Indonesian baby toiletries market, with products across five key categories powder, bar soap, liquid soap, shampoo and cologne.
The rejuvenated portfolio, offering more modern packaging and improved formulations is the trusted brand of choice and has benefited from a 360 activation campaign which creates consumer awareness via TV campaigns and social media based engagement between consumers and medical experts.
This commercial awareness has been converted into sales through a committed strong team of sales and promotional staff.
Additionally, the growth is supported by a 15 strong network of depots allowing an effective distribution to the most challenging of Indonesian geographies reaching both traditional and modern outlets to achieve maximum penetration and speed to market.
Geographic expansion has occurred in the Philippines and Vietnam, with a roll-out planned into China, Myanmar, Pakistan and Bangladesh during the latter part of this financial year.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13
