Business review The first year of the Beauty division has seen a strong continued performance combined with a new brand acquisition and product innovation across all ranges.
Product innovations Active Reverse Beauty skin products In June 2012 the Beauty division division launched the Active Reverse range of skin care products with ballet star Darcey Bussell as brand ambassador.
The innovative, clinically tested formulations incorporate a six product range that utilises the latest peptide technology to lock moisture and nourishment deep into the skin thereby reducing lines and wrinkles and improving tone.
St Tropez The St Tropez Self Tan Bronzing Mousse is now the top skin finishing product in the US with significant category growth predicted next year.
The St Tropez range has also now started distribution in ten Latin American countries.
In the UK, strong innovation through new product launches such as Dark Division highlights and Gradual Tan Plus are helping maintain First year of Beauty division has seen strong performance and the the number one market merging of operations position St Tropez holds.
Fudge brand acquired and integrated St Tropez sales in US more than doubled from prior year Significant product innovations including Sanctuary Active Reverse, St Tropez Dark and Gradual Tan Plus and Charles Worthington Salon at Home Key products PZ Cussons Plc 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review skincare products called Active Reverse with ballet star Darcey This is the first year of the separate Beauty division which has seen Bussell as brand ambassador.
The Charles Worthington Salon the merger of four brand cultures, teams, systems and operations.
at Home range has achieved a step-change for the brand into The division has performed well, both in the UK and overseas.
In January, the division There has been particularly strong growth from St Tropez in the acquired the Fudge hair-care brand for 26.3 million in cash.
United States where revenue increased 2.5 fold to 7.5 million.
Fudge is a leading premium hair-care brand, sold predominantly This has been delivered through distribution via Sephora US, through salon distribution in the UK, Australia and New Zealand.
launching in over 300 JC Penney Stores and extensive media coverage including QVC.
St Tropez has also seen a number of Looking to the future, the division is planning to extend its significant new product launches including a dark tan product geographical footprint further and sell a wider range of products which is proving to be extremely popular.
An exciting development within its existing geographies.
for Sanctuary was the launch during the year of a new range of m Fudge brand acquisition 26.3 The Fudge hair-care brand was purchased from the Australian-based Sabre Group in January 2012 for 26.3 million.
Established in 1991, Fudge investment in Fudge is a leading premium hair-care brand sold predominantly through salon hair-care brand distribution in the UK, Australia and New Zealand.
It is best known for its styling products including the popular Hair Shaper product, although the large array of products includes two styling ranges, extreme colour ranges, a hair-care range and a professional salon support range.
The brands revenue contribution in 2012 for the four months since acquisition was 5 million and its sales are split approximately 50 50 between Europe and Australasia.
During the year the Fudge brand was successfully integrated into the existing Beauty division.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 17
