Business Review 2012 This review for the financial year ended In March 2012 the Group announced the sale on a reported basis: on an adjusted diluted 31 December 2012 conforms to the of its non core Paras personal care business.
Business Review required under the The Group announced the acquisition of STRUCTURE OF GROUP OPERATIONS Companies Act 2006 2006 Act.
This transaction provides The Group structures its business through a be read in conjunction with the rest of a powerful entry into the large and growing matrix of a centralised category development, this Annual Report, the Groups latest global vitamins, minerals and supplements global sales, supply and support functions Sustainability Report and the Groups VMS market.
This market is the largest finance, human resources and information website www.
consumer health care sector in which the services, combined with three area This review details the performance of the Group operates.
It is an ideal addition to organisations: ENA, LAPAC and RUMEA, business under the new geographical RBs new strategic focus in global health and plus Food and RB Pharmaceuticals.
The segments and category structure in place hygiene, and provides immediate scale in VMS central category development function is during 2012.
Prior periods have been in the US.
responsible for Powerbrand strategies, brand restated to enable comparability.
equity programmes and best practices, and PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS IN 2012 new product development including research NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES OF The results include the business of Schiff from and development R&D and consumer and THE BUSINESS 14 December 2012, the date of acquisition.
market research, for implementation by the RB is one of the worlds leading manufacturers Where appropriate, the term like-for-like area organisations.
and marketers of branded products in health, describes the performance of the business on a hygiene and home, selling a comprehensive The supply function is responsible for all comparable basis, excluding the impact of range through over 60 operating companies procurement raw and packaging materials and major acquisitions, disposals, discontinued into nearly 200 countries.
In 2012, nearly services, production and logistics globally, and operations and foreign exchange.
three-quarters of net revenue was generated by is directly responsible for the operation of the brands that are either market leader or ranked Where appropriate, the term base business Groups 45 production facilities worldwide.
includes ENA, LAPAC, RUMEA and Food.
Base Facilities are located in Europe 16 facilities and business excludes RB Pharmaceuticals.
The remaining facilities RBs vision is a world where people are healthier spread across Asia 16, Latin America four, and live better.
RBs purpose is to make a Where appropriate, the term core includes and Africa Middle East three include a small difference by giving people innovative solutions health, hygiene, home and portfolio brands.
number of facilities in higher risk labour and for healthier lives and happier homes.
Where appropriate, the term adjusted social environments.
In summary the strategy of the business excludes the impact of exceptional items.
Information services is responsible for the pursued in 2012 was: 2012 net revenue increased at 4% at constant Groups global systems infrastructure and Target health and hygiene Powerbrands: exchange rate constant, to 9,567m, with global systems, including the Groups enterprise Continue the successful Powerbrands like-for-like growth of 5% for the Group and resource planning ERP systems.
strategy but increase focus and investment 5% like-for-like for the base business.
SEGMENTAL PERFORMANCE AT CONSTANT on higher growth, higher margin health and Total gross margin increased by 50 bps to EXCHANGE RATES hygiene brands, in addition to home.
57.9%, benefiting from cost optimisation The three geographical areas are Target fast growing markets: Prioritise 16 programmes, pricing and positive mix.
responsible for local execution of marketing Powermarkets for disproportionate Investment behind brand equity building and sales programmes: investment and growth.
A significant number activities BEI was 12.7% of net revenue ENA.
This area covers the regions of North of these markets are emerging markets.
excluding RB Pharmaceuticals, 70 bps higher America, Northern Europe UK, Ireland and than the previous year.
Within this, pure media New organisation structure: Redeploy Scandinavia, Central Europe Germany, Austria, spend rose 9% constant to a level of 11.7% resources to increase focus on, and Switzerland, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic, of net revenue excluding RB Pharmaceuticals.
Slovakia, Adriatics, Southern Europe Italy, On an adjusted basis, operating profit was Greece, Romania and Western Europe France, Target medium-term operating margin ahead 3% 6% constant to 2,570m, with Spain, Portugal, Netherlands, Belgium.
2012 expansion: Continue the strategy of steady the adjusted operating margin 70 bps to total net revenue was 4,678m, with like-formargin expansion whilst increasing investment 26.9% due in part to the early achievement of like growth of 1%.
We continue to witness behind brand equity building activities.
Operating profit as difficult market conditions in many parts of reported was 2,435m, 2% higher than last RB set three medium-term five-year key Europe.
Despite this the new organisation year 5% constant.
The Group took an performance indicators KPIs in relation to the delivered a consistently improving performance exceptional pre-tax charge of 135m in respect new strategy in 2012, with two of these now through the year, supported with higher levels of material one-off acquisitions and accelerated as discussed on page 2 of the Chief of BEI.
Additionally, the second half witnessed restructuring.
For the base business, adjusted Executives Statement.
a higher incidence of flu than in the operating profit rose 3% 7% constant to comparable period.
1 200 bps of net revenue growth above 2,034m, equating to a 70 bps improvement market growth on average each year.
Growth in our health platform was driven by Durex, Gaviscon, Mucinex and Strepsils.
2 Emerging market areas to be 50% of core Net finance expense was 15m 2011: 19m.
Hygiene brands of Dettol, Lysol and Finish net revenue by 2016.
Strong free cash flow generation during the performed strongly, particularly in Europe year was offset by the payment for the 3 Health and hygiene net revenue to be 72% behind Dettol No-Touch, and in the US behind acquisition of Schiff in December, and share of core net revenue by 2016.
Finish Quantum and All-in-1 gel packs and repurchases of 535m.
The effective tax rate tablets.
In the home category, Air Wick The Group also sought to complement these was 24% 2011: 26%, the decrease was due achieved good growth in the second half driven objectives with the exit of certain non core to a 2% reduction in the UK corporate tax rate, by a strong performance from the newly businesses and targeted strategic and associated deferred tax benefits, and the launched Filter & Fresh and Black Edition candles.
favourable settlement of certain tax cases.
Adjusted operating profit was 1,156m, an In February 2012 the Group announced its Net income attributable to Shareholders was increase of 3% constant.
The adjusted intention to undertake a strategic review of its 1,829m, an increase of 5% 8% constant operating margin increased 80 bps, with private label business.
This resulted in the versus 2011: on an adjusted basis, net income increased BEI more than offset by gross margin withdrawal from the business during 2012. was up 7% 10% constant.
Diluted and fixed cost improvements.
A large part of earnings per share of 249.5p was 5% higher the improvements arose from the early 10 2012 achievement of planned cost savings.
In the US, which are the Powerbrand Frenchs Mustard has brought forward some of the planned cost Suboxone lost the exclusivity afforded by its the No.
1 mustard, and Franks Red Hot Sauce savings originally targeted for 2013. orphan drug status on 8 October 2009. the No.
1 hot sauce and wing sauce in North America.
This area covers the markets of Latin On 31 August 2010, the Group announced America including Brazil, Mexico, Chile, that it had received approval from the US Food 2012 net revenue increased 2% to 321m Argentina, the Andean Pact and Central and Drug Administration for its New Drug underpinned by continued growth in Frenchs America, North Asia China, Korea, Japan, Application to manufacture and market Mustard and Franks Red Hot Sauce.
The Taiwan, Hong Kong, South East Asia India, Suboxone sublingual film.
Suboxone sublingual second half was flat due to weaker US market Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Philippines, film has been developed through an exclusive conditions and increased private label activity, Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Australia and agreement with MonoSol Rx, utilising its particularly around Frenchs Fried Onions.
proprietary PharmFilm technology, to deliver core Frenchs Mustard and Franks Red Hot Suboxone in a fast-dissolving sublingual film.
2012 total net revenue increased to 2,327m, with like-for-like growth of 11%.
Growth As with all prescription drugs, the protection of Operating margins fell by -80 bps to 28.7% came from Latin America, North Asia and South the business has a finite term unless replaced due to adverse mix and input costs.
East Asia, driven by distribution expansion, with new treatments or forms.
THE GROUPS BRAND PORTFOLIO, MARKET innovation and increasing penetration.
In RB Pharmaceuticals recently announced its POSITION AND PERFORMANCE health, all Powerbrands grew, with voluntary discontinuation of Suboxone tablets The Group benefits from many very strong exceptionally strong performances from Durex in the US due to increasing concerns with market positions for its brand portfolio and has in China, Scholl in Japan, Paras brands in India paediatric exposure.
The Group has recently leading positions in selected health, hygiene and Gaviscon roll outs in a number of markets.
been made aware that two manufacturers have and home categories.
These positions derive In hygiene, Dettol, Lysol, Harpic and Veet received approval to produce generic Suboxone from the strength of the Groups leading delivered strong growth from initiatives such as tablets in the US.
The approval of generic brands, described as Powerbrands, which are Dettol Daily Care and Re-energize, and Power tablets has been anticipated since the loss of the flagship brands in the Groups three major Plus in Harpic.
Vanish and Air Wick performed orphan status in October 2009.
Whilst the categories and on which the Group focuses the well in the home category.
Group remains confident in the success of its majority of its efforts and investment.
The Adjusted operating profit increased 17% to patient-preferred Suboxone film, we do expect Group also has other portfolio brands which 464m.
Adjusted operating margin was 100 that increased price pressure will lead to a play a role as builders of scale in local markets.
Increased investment material reduction in sales revenue in the US.
These leading positions include: behind BEI was more than offset by good 2012 net revenue increased 10% to 837m.
gross margin, volume leverage and fixed Health Growth came from continued strong volume cost containment.
The health category consists of products that growth in the US.
This was offset by dilution relieve or solve common health problems.
This area covers the regions of Russia from the increased film penetration, which is and CIS, Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and a lower priced product, and government No.
1 worldwide in medicated sore throat Sub-Saharan Africa.
price reductions in a number of European products with the Powerbrand Strepsils.
Conversion from tablets to film in 2012 net revenue of 1,404m was ahead No.
1 worldwide in condoms for both safe the US continued to increase with market 8% on like-for-like basis 7% total, driven and more pleasurable sex, with the volume share at the end of 2012 of 64%, up by strong growth in Russia and CIS.
from 48% at the end of 2011, creating a growth was driven by Durex, Gaviscon, and significantly more sustainable business.
2 worldwide in cold and flu including Strepsils.
Hygiene Powerbrands Dettol, Finish, decongestants with the Powerbrand Mucinex.
Harpic and Veet performed particularly well Operating profit increased 3% constant to supported by initiatives such as Dettol Daily 536m.
The operating margin was down -400 Leading positions in analgesics and upper Care and Re-Energize.
Air Wick performed well bps to 64.0%, due to lower margins of the film gastro-intestinal products in Europe and in the home category with growth driven by variant, downward pricing pressure in Europe, Australia with the Powerbrands Nurofen Freshmatic and Aqua Mist.
and second half increase in BEI for advertising and Gaviscon.
and marketing programmes to increase patient The second half saw the upscheduling of Leading positions in footcare and comfort awareness about the film and treatment.
We certain Nurofen products in Russia, an increased footwear in many markets outside North also increased investment in the clinical promotional environment and some operational America and Latin America, with the pipeline.
We expect this gradual increase in and socio-political challenges in certain Powerbrand Scholl.
investment to continue into 2013 and markets.
These headwinds will continue beyond as we build a strong, sustainable The Group also has local leading positions through 2013 but we remain confident about growth business.
in denture care, dry skin care and cold and the underlying strength of the business.
The Group owns a largely North Adjusted operating profit increased by 3% to American food business, the principal brands of 290m.
This resulted in a -80 bps decline in the adjusted operating margin to 20.7%.
This was due to adverse FX impacting gross margin and increased investment in both BEI and the new area structure, to support the business and to drive future growth.
2012 Results excluding RB Pharmaceuticals In light of the announcement of generic competition to Suboxone in the US, the Group provides The Group also has two non core businesses: the following information relating to the performance of the business in 2012 excluding RB Pharmaceuticals and Food.
RB Pharmaceuticals is RB ex RB RB responsible for the development of the Groups Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals Total RB m % m % m % Subutex and Suboxone prescription drug business.
Both products are based on Net revenue 8,730 5% 837 10% 9,567 5% Buprenorphine for treatment of opiate Adjusted operating profit 2,034 7% 536 3% 2,570 6% dependence.
Suboxone is a more advanced Adjusted operating margin 23.3% 64.0% 26.9% product compared to Subutex, as it has like-for-like at constant exchange rates at constant exchange rates substantially better protection against abuse by 2012 11 Business Review 2012 continued Net revenue increased to 2,068m, with No.
1 worldwide in fabric treatment products RB competes in strongly branded segments by like-for-like growth of 6%.
Higher incidences to remove stains from clothes, carpets and focusing on its leading positions in higher of cold and flu in Q4 drove improved upholstery with the Powerbrand Vanish growth categories.
It is typically the market performances of our seasonal brands Mucinex around the globe, and Resolve Spray n Wash leader or a close follower, a position obtained and Strepsils.
The non-seasonal Powerbrands in North America.
through its ability to introduce new products performed well particularly Durex, Paras brands whether improved or newly developed, No.
1 worldwide in water softeners and Gaviscon.
Growth in Nurofen was supported by a rising and substantial level of products to prevent limescale build-up on impacted by upscheduling of certain products marketing and media investment.
A lot of washing machines and laundry with the in Russia.
New initiatives such as Performax competition in the industry focuses on Powerbrand Calgon.
Intense condoms, plus increased distribution in competing claims for product performance, China, drove Durex growth, and the roll out of No.
2 worldwide in garment care laundry rather than price or terms.
For this reason, Double Action in a number of emerging markets cleaning products for delicate garments with failure to introduce new products and gain strengthened performance from Gaviscon.
acceptance may significantly impact the Groups operating results.
The Group must also Hygiene Net revenue increased to 1,966m with defend itself against challenges to its leadership No.
1 worldwide in antiseptic liquids with the like-for-like growth of 2%.
Growth came from positions in markets: this requires significant Powerbrand Dettol.
Vanish where there has been excellent growth marketing expenditure and promotional activity.
in a number of emerging market countries, No.
1 worldwide in depilatory products with combined with more stable market shares in The Groups products also compete with private the Powerbrand Veet.
ENA where we have lapped competitive entries.
label products sold by major retail companies.
1 worldwide in automatic dishwashing Growth was also driven by Air Wick which The Group does this by focusing on delivering products used in automatic dishwashers produced a good performance behind innovative new products with real consumer with the Powerbrand Finish.
Freshmatic, candles and Flip & Fresh.
benefits, which private label typically does not do.
2 worldwide in pest control with the Portfolio communicates the benefits of the Groups Powerbrand Mortein, the Groups The Group has a number of local market brands directly to consumers.
international brand, supported by local positions in laundry detergents and fabric brand franchises.
softeners for example, in Spain, Italy, certain Technological change and product East European markets and Korea.
improvement can be a key determinant of the No.
3 worldwide in acne treatment with the Groups success.
RBs success in introducing Powerbrand Clearasil.
The Group also had a small private label new and improved products stems from its business, which principally provided laundry No.
1 worldwide in the overall surface care heavy focus on developing a pipeline of detergents to major multinational retailers in category due to leading positions across product innovation.
This business was discontinued disinfectant cleaners, non-disinfectant large category development organisation during the year.
multipurpose cleaners, lavatory care, including market and consumer research, R&D speciality cleaners and polishes & waxes.
2 worldwide in shoe care with such and marketing sales best practice to fuel the brands as Cherry Blossom and Nugget.
innovation pipeline and share category success No.
1 worldwide in disinfectant cleaners factors and learnings.
The Group invested products which both clean and disinfect Net revenue was 693m, with like-for-like 171m in R&D in 2012 2011: 153m.
While surfaces, killing 99.9% of germs with the growth of 1%.
This growth was reduced by the Group believes R&D to be a key contributor Powerbrand Lysol in North America and the the withdrawal from the private label business to innovative new products, it does not believe surface care products in the Dettol range where all contracts have now been terminated.
it to be the dominant performance indicator for outside North America.
THE INDUSTRY, MARKET AND COMPETITIVE innovation success.
2 worldwide in lavatory care with Lysol in ENVIRONMENT INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND North America and the Powerbrand Harpic The health, hygiene and home care industry REGULATORY POSITION across Europe and emerging markets.
is generally characterised by steady growth The health, hygiene and home care industry is in demand, with some variation due to The Group has a number of local leading heavily regulated by, inter alia, the European macro-economic factors, particularly in brands in non-disinfectant multipurpose Union EU and individual country governments developed markets.
Some emerging markets cleaners, speciality cleaners and around the world.
Ingredients, manufacturing exhibit more volatile demand in reaction to polishes & waxes.
standards, labour standards, product safety, macro-economic factors.
The principal drivers marketing and advertising claims are all subject Net revenue increased 6% like-for-like to of market growth in all markets are the rate to detailed and developing regulation.
3,682m, driven by strong growth in the of household formation, growth in the level Dettol Lysol franchise across all three of our of disposable income and demand for new The Group has a comprehensive set of policies areas.
New initiatives such as Dettol Daily care products that offer improved performance and procedures designed to govern its business and Re-Energize in emerging markets and the or greater convenience.
methods and practices and protect its recently launched Lysol No-Touch Kitchen reputation.
These cover, inter alia, a The industry is intensely competitive, with a System in ENA underpinned this strong comprehensive Code of Conduct, an comparatively small number of major performance.
Finish continues to perform well Environment Policy, a Global Manufacturing multinational competitors accounting for a in a number of markets globally, and Standard, a Product Safety Policy including large proportion of total global supply.
The particularly in the US where Quantum and compliance with regulatory and product quality Group competes with numerous, wellAll-In-1 tablets and gel packs have gained requirements.
Internal controls on established, local, regional, national and market share.
Veet delivered good growth environmental, social, and governance ESG international companies, some of which are behind initiatives such as the Veet Easy Wax matters and reputational risk are further very large and have significant resources with Electrical Roll-On.
Harpic enjoyed very strong outlined in pages 14 to 16 of this Report.
which to establish and defend their products, growth in LAPAC and RUMEA by driving market shares and brands.
Principal competitors RESOURCES category penetration via consumer education include FMCG companies like Clorox, ColgateThe major resources required by the business and increased distribution, backed by the Palmolive, Henkel, Procter & Gamble, SC are an adequate supply of the raw and continued success of Harpic Power Plus and Johnson and Unilever, and such pharmaceutical packaging materials consumed by the Groups Harpic Hygienic blocks in all geographies.
companies as Bayer, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson products and the necessary funds for Home & Johnson and Novartis plus a number of developing new products and reinvestment in No.
2 worldwide in air care with the strong local industry companies.
advertising and promoting those brands.
12 2012 other principal resource is management.
The level of vacancies within the Top400 of 14, or materially adversely affect the Groups ability to Group considers that its primary raw materials, around 3% of the measured group.
deliver its strategic objectives is low.
such as bulk chemicals including a number of There is a comprehensive set of policies The principal and specific risks that, in the petrochemicals, plastics, pulp, metal cans etc, governing employment and employees to opinion of the Directors, pose the most are generally in adequate global supply.
The ensure that the Group remains an attractive significant threat to the delivery of the Groups cost of these items fluctuates from time to time employer.
The Group is committed to the strategic objectives are as follows: but not at levels that seriously impinge on the principle of equal opportunity in employment: ability of the Group to supply its products or Market Risks no applicant or employee receives less generate profit.
The Group is profitable and Competition, economic conditions and customer favourable treatment on the grounds of cash generative.
The Group believes that its consolidation may translate into increasing nationality, age, gender, religion or disability.
It ability to reinvest in supporting and building its pressure on pricing and promotion levels and is essential to the continued improvement in brands is a significant competitive advantage.
market growth rates, especially in Europe.
efficiency and productivity that each employee Supply constraints do exist in the Groups understands the Groups strategies, policies and The Group seeks to mitigate this risk through supply chain from time to time.
Open and regular communication active category, brand and customer arise due to unexpected demand for new with employees at all levels is an essential part relationship management programmes products or the time delay involved in stepping of the management process.
The Board supported by ongoing investment into new up production of new items to the levels encourages employees to become Shareholders product development.
The Groups supply and participate in the employee share The expiry of the Groups exclusive licence chain is deliberately relatively well spread in ownership schemes.
for Suboxone in the United States in 2009 and terms of geography and technology, such that The Group relies on its brand names and the rest of the world in 2016 is likely to expose the reliance on any one facility is reduced.
All of the Groups major the business to further competition from However, there are a number of facilities that brand names are protected by nationally or generic variants.
remain critical to the Groups supply chain, internationally registered trademarks.
The where major interruption to normal working The Group has developed a new and patented Group also maintains patents or other protection could involve disruption to supply.
The Groups sublingual film delivery method for this product for its significant product formulations, designs suppliers are similarly deliberately well spread in which partially mitigates the risk exposure to the and processing methods.
The Group terms of geography and supplied items, but expected generic variant entry against tablets.
aggressively monitors these protections and there are nonetheless some risks to continuity pursues any apparent infringements.
Operational Risks of supply arising from some specialised Business continuity plans may prove insufficient suppliers both of raw materials and of third RELATIONSHIPS AND PRINCIPAL RISKS to protect the business in the face of a party manufactured items.
The Groups key external relationships are significant and unforeseen supply disruption.
broadly based with no single customer The supply of strong management for the accounting for more than 10% of net revenue Suppliers of key raw and packaging materials, Group remains more than adequate.
This is and the top ten customers accounting for less co-packers of finished product and the Groups attributable to the Groups culture and its than one quarter of net revenue.
Although manufacturing facilities and key technologies highly performance oriented remuneration these customers continue to become more are risk assessed for their potential impact on policy, based on paying for excellent concentrated in their chosen markets, the supply disruption for branded products.
The Group believes that its ability Groups wide geographical spread and diversity Business continuity plans are in place to attract and retain the excellent management of product lines provides a natural balance.
throughout the Group and major sites are it needs to continue its success depends routinely and independently assessed towards critically on this system.
The Group trains and Equally, the Group sources its raw and achievement of a highly protected site status.
develops its management pipeline through packaging materials and finished goods from a formal training programmes focusing on three wide variety of predominantly international Key senior management may leave the Group, areas leadership skills, functional skills and chemical and packaging companies and or management turnover increase significantly.
general skills and through a deliberate policy co-packers.
No single supplier accounts for The Group structures its reward programme to of training on the job.
The Group has 23 formal more than 5% of cost of sales and the Groups attract and retain the best people.
The formal training modules for middle management and global purchasing function balances the need succession planning process continues to evolve Top400 international managers Top400.
for competitive pricing with continuity of supply.
with plans being reviewed and updated During 2012, the Group ran over 64 courses on The Groups brand portfolio is also broadly regularly for key positions and individuals.
these modules, training over 933 people.
based with the most significant Powerbrand The combination of the Groups recently Management is international and is trained accounting for approximately 9% of net initiated strategic business reorganisation and through rotation in international postings both revenue.
Each brand in turn is founded on a ERP programmes could result in sub-optimal in countries and in the Groups central variety of appropriate technology platforms implementations and reduced focus due to functions.
Succession planning is a critical which drive a steady stream of product conflicting demands for management attention.
management discipline and is reviewed development.
The individual brands are annually at least by the full Board and the self-supporting and independent of the RB A governance structure has been put in place Executive Committee.
corporate brand, and each other.
This reduces to ensure that milestones are clearly set and key the potential for any brand reputation damage objectives are tracked and followed up The Group closely monitors and tracks its to impact across a broader front.
This is the core management team of professional programme management the business and is a diverse group, consisting The financial stability of the Group is resources have been appointed to help deliver of over 40 nationalities.
Over 60% of the supported by a low level of leverage, as the programmes and ensure alignment and Top400 is working in a country that is not their borrowings to finance acquisitions are paid coordination between the various workstreams.
original domicile, consistent with the Groups down through strong cash flows, and a stable policy to develop a multinational management Shareholder base.
Information technology systems may be team.
Turnover within this Top400 group in disrupted or may fail, interfering with the Given the combination of the financial strength 2012 was 8%, which the Group considers Groups ability to conduct its business.
and geographic spread of the Group, its range satisfactory given the need to retain highof brands and products, and its low level of The Group has disaster recovery plans in place quality management offset by the benefits of reliance on individual key customers and which are tested periodically.
It also invests in refreshing the team with new talent.
2012 saw suppliers, the Directors consider that its security measures and anti-virus software to 57 promotions, 78 moves, and 27 external exposure to specific events which would safeguard against this threat.
The Group ended the year with a low 2012 13 Business Review 2012 continued current systems throughout the execution of level of residual risk than has previously been contracts with GT to manage these exposures, the ERP programme implementation is an the case.
where practical and allowed by local ongoing priority.
GT manages the Group exposures, COMPLIANCE AND ROUTINE RISKS and hedges the net position where possible, Product quality failures or ingredient concerns In order to manage the more numerous and using spot and forward foreign currency could potentially result in the undermining of routine risks, the Group maintains a complete exchange contracts.
consumer confidence in the Groups products and robust governance framework.
of a full set of policies, processes and systems Market Price Risk covering all aspects of compliance, with Due to the nature of its business the Group is The Group has a comprehensive set of policies, international and local laws as well as with the exposed to commodity price risk related to the processes and systems to manage and monitor Groups stated minimum control standards.
production or packaging of finished goods such quality assurance, including an appropriately as oil-related, and a diverse range of other, raw resourced global quality audit team.
Management provides primary assurance by materials.
This risk is, however, managed driving risk compliance through their respective Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal primarily through medium-term contracts with area, regional or functional responsibility.
This is and regulatory environment could limit certain key suppliers and is not viewed as being done through regular and detailed business business activities.
The Group is not exposed to reviews.
Secondary assurance is provided equity securities price risk.
The Group has an ongoing Regulatory independently through a combination of Excellence programme, which continues to internal and external audit covering all aspects Interest Rate Risk make good progress.
RB employs senior of the Groups operations.
The Group has both interest-bearing and non regulatory and legal specialists at a Group, interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group Financial Risk Management regional and local level who are responsible for monitors its interest expense rate exposure on a The Groups multinational operations expose it setting policies and ensuring that all employees regular basis.
The Group manages its interest to a variety of financial risks that include the are aware of, and comply with, both Group rate exposure on its gross financial assets by effects of changes in foreign currency exchange policies and the laws and regulations relevant using fixed rate term deposits.
rates foreign exchange risk, market prices, to their roles.
interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
Credit Risk Non-compliance with the 2011 UK Bribery Act.
The Group has no significant concentrations of The Group has in place a risk management credit risk.
Financial institution counterparties A comprehensive prevention programme was programme that uses foreign currency financial are subject to approval under the Groups put in place in 2011, including the refreshing of instruments, including debt, and other counterparty risk policy and such approval is the Groups Code of Conduct, the issuing of a instruments, to limit the impact of these risks limited to financial institutions with a BBB new anti-bribery policy to all employees and an on the financial performance of the Group.
The Group uses BBB and extension of the annual online training The Groups financing and financial risk higher rated counterparties to manage risk and undertaken by employees to include a management activities are centralised into uses BBB rated counterparties by exception.
mandatory test on the new policy.
This Group Treasury GT to achieve benefits of scale The amount of exposure to any individual programme has been built on and reinforced and control.
GT manages financial exposures of counterparty is subject to a limit defined within through 2012. the Group centrally in a manner consistent with the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed If intensity or scale of acquisitions and disposals underlying business risks.
GT manages only annually by the Board.
activity distracts management focus or those risks and flows generated by the Liquidity Risk undermines the control environment.
underlying commercial operations and The Group has bilateral credit facilities with speculative transactions are not undertaken.
The 2010 SSL acquisition has been fully and high-quality international banks.
All of these successfully integrated.
Recent acquisitions and The Board reviews and agrees policies, facilities have similar or equivalent terms and disposals have been relatively smaller, largely guidelines and authority levels for all areas of conditions, and have a financial covenant, focused on single categories countries and at Treasury activity and individually approves which is not expected to restrict the Groups a pace to allow rapid integration.
GT operates under the future operations.
The committed borrowing area management oversee and provide close control of the CFO and is subject to facilities, together with available uncommitted additional resources to ensure continued local periodic independent reviews and audits, both facilities and central cash and investments, are management focus and the maintenance of internal and external.
considered sufficient to meet the Groups robust controls.
Foreign Exchange Risk Financial Risks The Group prepares its financial statements in Funds over and above those required for Tax authorities are becoming more aggressive Sterling but conducts business in many foreign short-term working capital purposes by the in disputing historically accepted financing and currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign overseas businesses are generally remitted to other structures and pursuing compensation for exchange risk due to the effects that exchange GT.
The Group uses the remittances to settle retroactive changes to tax laws.
rate movements have on the translation of the obligations, repay borrowings or, in the event results and the underlying net assets of its of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments The Group is proactive in responding to tax foreign subsidiaries.
issued by institutions with a BBB rating or above.
authorities, either through robust defence or through negotiated settlement.
The Board The Groups policy is to align interest costs and Capital Management considers that tax exposures are adequately operating profit of its major currencies in order The Groups objectives for managing capital are provided for, whilst recognising that an element to provide some protection against the to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as of risk will always remain.
translation exposure on foreign currency profits a going concern, in order to provide returns for after tax.
The Group may undertake borrowings Shareholders and benefits for other Government authorities have become more and other hedging methods in the currencies of stakeholders, and to maintain an efficient aggressive in levelling punitive fines for historic the countries where most of its assets are located.
capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
For transactions, it is the Groups policy to In maintaining an appropriate capital The Group is proactive in addressing legal risks monitor and, only where appropriate, hedge its structure and providing returns for and responds to government authorities in a foreign currency transaction exposures.
These Shareholders, in 2012 the Company has forthright and cooperative manner.
When transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign provided returns to Shareholders in the form appropriate, the Group will present a robust currency receipts and payments for goods and of dividends, the current details of which are defence to allegations it has breached services, and from the remittance of foreign included in the Financial Review for the year on applicable regulations or laws.
The Board seeks currency dividends and loans.
The local business page 17, and the establishment of a share buy to provide adequately for such legal exposures, units enter into forward foreign exchange back programme.
whilst recognising that there is now a higher 14 2012 The Group monitors net debt total borrowings intended use.
Our SVP Human Resources HR determined by the Groups industrial sectors less cash and cash equivalents: short-term and the global HR function manage the Groups health, hygiene and home and the products available for sale financial assets and financing human resources, employee remuneration and the Group manufactures and sells.
The Groups derivative financial instruments and at the benefits, employment practices, organisational strategic priorities therefore remain to: year end the Group had net debt of 2,426m development, training and elements of health 1.
Achieve continual improvement in our overall 2011: 1,795m.
The Group seeks to pay and safety eg stress management.
environmental performance, focusing on down net debt using cash generated by the Key areas of sustainability performance, those issues where we can make a significant business to maintain an appropriate level of including sustainability disclosures, are difference: and financial flexibility.
independently reviewed and verified by both 2.
Manage our business in a socially and Details of numerical disclosures relating to the internal and external organisations, including ethically responsible manner.
Groups financial risk management are included Internal Audit, and their findings regularly in note 14 to the financial statements on pages reported to senior management, the CEO, the In September 2012, the Group announced a 59 to 63.
Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board has new approach to sustainability, in support of identified and assessed the range of the Groups new vision, purpose and business Sustainability: Environmental, Social and sustainability and associated reputational risks strategy.
This approach includes three key Governance ESG Matters and and concluded that there are limited material targets.
By 2020, the Group aims to achieve: Reputational Risks risks to the Groups longand short-term value In line with the requirements of the 2006 Act, a 1 3 reduction in water impact per dose of arising from sustainability matters, other than rationale has been developed and a review product: and potential risks common to similarly sized undertaken to determine what information to businesses operating in its industry sectors and 1 3 further reduction in carbon footprint per include in this Report as necessary for an with similarly well-known brands.
dose of product: and understanding of the development, performance and position of the business of The Group has a full set of policies, 1 3 of net revenue from more sustainable the Group relating to environmental matters programmes and control arrangements, products.
including the impact of the Groups business building on its central Code of Conduct, that These three high-level goals are supported by a on the environment, its employees, and social address the full range of sustainability matters number of functional goals.
The Group focuses and community issues referred to in this and reputational risks.
The Code itself is the on a number of specific topics to deliver against report as sustainability matters.
subject of an annual training and awareness the strategic priorities.
These include, but are programme, and is covered by an annual review The Board regularly considers and takes not limited to: and certification process carried out by Internal account of the significance of sustainability Audit and the Legal Department.
The Code and Supply Chain Responsibility matters, their potential risks to the business of other Group policies relating to sustainability Most product, component and raw material the Group and the opportunities to enhance can be found at www.
supply chains present a number of potential value that may arise from an appropriate reputational risks relating to: labour standards: response including risks relating to Sustainability Focus Areas health, safety and environmental standards: environmental impacts, employees, society and The Group has identified the material raw material sourcing: and the social, ethical communities, as well as reputational risks.
The sustainability issues for the business, following and environmental performance of third party Board undertakes a formal review of Accountabilitys 5-Part Materiality Test and the manufacturers and other suppliers.
The sustainability matters at least annually.
This GRI Technical Protocol on Applying the Report Groups Global Manufacturing Standard GMS includes providing oversight to ensure that the content Principles.
This process includes an mandates minimum requirements regarding Group has in place effective policies, systems assessment of the Groups potential employment arrangements, labour standards and procedures for managing sustainability sustainability risks, the issues of greatest and health, safety and environmental matters and mitigating significant sustainability concern for the Groups stakeholders, the issues management, in line with international risks.
The Board believes that it receives that society has identified as important through guidelines, for the Groups own manufacturing adequate information and training on regulation and international standards and sites and, from the end of 2012, third party sustainability matters and their potential risks those issues covered by our existing policies manufacturers and suppliers.
Management and opportunities to the business of the Group.
processes and controls in place include Additionally, the Audit Committee regularly Strategic Sustainability Priorities Group, area and regional monitoring and reviews the arrangements for, and effectiveness The aspects the Group has identified are assessment of compliance with the GMS of, risk management and internal audit common to many FMCG companies with and other requirements.
including the full range of risks facing the well-known brands and are essentially Group such as risks relating to sustainability matters, reputational risks and risks relating to employees.
The CEO has specific responsibility for sustainability.
As part of established Key Issues with Potential to have Social management processes, which include Material Impacts on the Business Occupational health & safety appropriate remuneration incentives, senior Human rights and labour practices Environment management reports directly to the CEO on Responsible and ethical supply chain Resource availability and use sustainability matters on a regular basis.
Impacts of demographic change Water quantity and quality Transparency on products and ingredients Our Director of Global Sustainability, Greenhouse gas GHG emissions reduction Consumer behaviour change Environment, Health & Safety manages the Waste management Talent attraction sustainability programme on a day-to-day basis.
Natural raw materials sourcing Employee engagement Our Senior Vice President SVP of Corporate Operational environment, regulatory Charitable donations philanthropy Communication and Affairs is secretary to the compliance Groups Executive Committee.
She is Product and packaging use and disposal Governance responsible for the Groups community Pollution including contaminated land Sustainability involvement.
The R&D function includes the Energy use efficiency Corporate governance Global Regulatory Affairs GRA group, which is Carbon offsetting Bribery and corruption responsible for ensuring that our products meet Product regulation Code of conduct regulatory requirements and are safe for their Sustainable product innovations Product quality and compliance 2012 15 Business Review 2012 continued Climate Change A 92% reduction in accident rates since other provisions.
It is therefore a much closer The effects of climate change could disrupt the 2001, including a 3% reduction in lost proxy to RBs true commercial net working Groups supply chain by affecting the Groups working day accident frequency between capital performance.
Comparatives have ability to source raw materials, manufacture 2010 and 2011: been restated on a consistent basis.
Net products and distribute products.
Due to the working capital inventories, trade and other Regrettably, in 2012, one RB employee lost Groups industry sectors and product categories receivables and trade and other payables was his life while working for RB.
The lessons the GHG emissions originating from energy use minus 700m in line with the 31 December learned have been communicated across the at its direct operations are of medium-to-low 2011 level.
There were no RB employee fatalities impact in comparison to those of other similarly in 2010 and 2011: Cash Flow: Cash generated from operating sized companies, as assessed for example in activities was 2,423m 2011: 2,430m and recent reports of the independent Carbon Continued support of the international net cash flow from operations was 1,735m Disclosure Project CDP, www.
net : charity Save the Children, reaching 175,000 2011: 1,581m.
Net interest paid was 7m specifically, the GHG emissions from the children in 2011 total 775,000 since 2003 2011: 13m and tax payments were 528m Groups global manufacturing operations are and reaching over 40,000 women and 2011: 677m.
Capital expenditure was circa 270,000 tonnes COequivalents per annum.
2 lower than the prior year at 177m 2011: The Group has taken a leadership position with The sustainability and corporate responsibility 205m.
Acquisition of businesses of 877m regard to its products total carbon footprint, by section on the Groups website www.
com related to the acquisition of Schiff, and other seeking to understand, measure and reduce the Ourresponsibility and its annual Sustainability minor acquisitions.
GHG emissions generated by all stages of the Reports available at www.
com provide Net Debt: At the end of the year net debt was product lifecycle for its global product portfolio, further information on its policies, systems and 2,426m 2011: 1,795m, an increase of and including amongst other things: the raw procedures for managing sustainability matters 631m.
This reflected net cash flow from and packaging materials provided by its and the risks and opportunities that may arise operations of 1,735m, offset by the suppliers: the Groups own direct manufacturing from them, including: the extent to which it acquisition of Schiff and other minor and other operations: transportation of both raw complies with those policies, systems and acquisitions for 877m net of cash acquired, materials and finished products: the retail sale of procedures: KPIs: and its sustainability and the payment of two dividends totalling its products: consumers use of its products: and programmes, targets and progress.
The Group regularly reviews its banking the disposal recycling of those products and their reports in line with the Global Reporting arrangements and currently has adequate packaging.
The Group publicly launched this Initiatives Sustainability Reporting Guidelines facilities available to meet liquidity needs.
initiative in November 2007, comprising its Version 3.0 GRI G3 www.
Carbon20 programme and the target to reduce org and a Content Index and Application Level Exceptional Items: A total pre-tax exceptional its global products total carbon footprint across Table are provided in the Sustainability Report.
charge of 135m has been incurred during the their complete lifecycle by 20% per dose by Selected data in the annual Sustainability year in respect of the following: 2020 versus a 2007 baseline.
Report is assured by external auditors.
For more Remaining restructuring costs in respect of information refer to the latest Report, released Health & Safety Management the acquisition of SSL: and 31 May 2012, at www.
com  caused through a failure of the report2011.
Costs associated with the new strategy and Groups safety management systems could private label business closure costs: and potentially lead to loss of life for one or more of FINANCIAL REVIEW the Groups employees.
The Group maintains an Basis of Preparation: The financial Acquisition costs associated with the external certification to OHSAS 18001 for the information is prepared in accordance with acquisition of Schiff and other acquisitions.
Groups management of health and safety issues.
IFRSs as endorsed by the EU and IFRSs as issued In 2011 an exceptional pre-tax charge of 96m by the International Accounting Standards Progress was incurred, of which 92m is reflected in Board, with applicable parts of the 2006 Act The Groups most recent Sustainability Report, reported operating profit and 4m is included and with the accounting policies set out in note published on 31 May 2012, describes the in net interest.
In 2012 the 135m pre-tax 1 on pages 43 to 46. progress made in key sustainability topics.
charge is reflected in reported operating profit.
This includes: Constant Exchange: Movements in exchange Balance Sheet: At the end of 2012, the Group rates relative to Sterling affect actual results as At the end of 2011, the fourth year of the had total equity of 5,922m 2011: 5,781m, reported.
The constant exchange rate basis Groups Carbon20 programme, the total an increase of 2%.
Net debt was 2,426m adjusts the comparative to exclude such carbon footprint of the Group measured per 2011: 1,795m and total capital employed in movements, to show the underlying growth of dose of product reduced by 21% 26% the business was 8,348m 2011: 7,576m.
including the former SSL business.
This This finances non-current assets of 12,023m reduction in carbon emissions per dose Net Revenue: Net revenue was 9,567m 2011: 11,188m, of which 737m 2011: means the Group met and exceeded its 2011: 9,485m, an increase of 1%.
732m is property, plant and equipment, the Carbon20 target for 2020 eight years ahead Net Finance Expense: Net finance expense remainder being goodwill, other intangible of schedule: was 15m 2011: 19m, reflecting the assets, deferred tax, available for sale financial Planting 5.4m native trees in Canada by the acquisition of SSL and Paras.
The 2011 net assets, retirement benefit surplus and other end of 2011 including 865,000 in 2011 finance expense includes a 4m exceptional receivables.
The Group has net working capital which equates to an offset that effectively charge in respect of financing costs associated of minus 700m 2011: minus 701m, current makes the Groups manufacturing carbon with the acquisition of SSL.
provisions of 128m 2011: 60m and neutral 2006-2011 : long-term liabilities other than borrowings of Tax: The effective tax rate was 24% 2011: 2,668m 2011: 2,642m.
The decrease was due to a 2% reduction per unit of production 2000-2011 : in the UK corporate tax, associated deferred tax The Groups financial ratios remain strong.
benefits, and the favourable settlement of Return on Shareholders funds net income A 48% reduction in GHG emissions from certain tax cases.
divided by total Shareholders funds was manufacturing sites 2000-2011 : 31.0% on a reported basis and 32.8% on an Net Working Capital: A new definition of net A 16% reduction per unit of production in adjusted basis 2011: 30.3% on a reported working capital, a key component of the water use 2000-2011 : basis and 31.6% on an adjusted basis.
Groups focus on cash generation, has been A 7% reduction per unit of production of used in 2012.
This excludes corporate tax and waste 2000-2011 : 16 2012 Dividends: The Board recommends a final medium-term.
In 2012 we discontinued our collaboration period for a multiple of earnings.
dividend of 78p per share 2011: 70p, an private label business, and sold a number of The transaction will be accounted for as a increase of 11%, to give a full year dividend small non core brands.
2013 will benefit from a business combination and the Directors are in of 134p per share 2011: 125p, an overall number of acquisitions.
Together they will have the process of revaluing the assets and liabilities increase of 7%.
The dividend, if approved by a net impact of c. 100 bps on net revenue.
acquired to fair value, including the value of Shareholders at the AGM on 2 May 2013, will Taking these into account, we are targeting any acquired intangible assets.
be paid on 30 May to Shareholders on the in 2013: Cautionary Note Concerning Forward register at the record date of 22 February.
The Net revenue growth of 5-6% : and Looking Statements ex-dividend date is 20 February and the last This document contains forward looking statements, date for election for the share alternative to the Further increased investment in our brands including statements with respect to the financial dividend is 8 May.
The final dividend will be BEI : and condition, results of operations and business of RB accrued once approved by Shareholders.
and certain of the plans and objectives of the Maintain operating margins.
Company with respect to these items.
These forward Contingent Liabilities: The Group is involved looking statements are made pursuant to the Safe These targets exclude RB Pharmaceuticals.
in a number of investigations by government Harbor provisions of the United States Private authorities and has made provisions for such At constant rates including acquisitions and Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, investigations, where appropriate.
Where it is disposals withdrawal from private label and all statements that express forecasts, expectations and too early to determine the likely outcome of other minor items, excluding RB projections with respect to future matters, including trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, these matters, the Directors have made no Pharmaceuticals.
overall market trends, the impact of interest or provision for such potential liabilities.
Adjusted to exclude the impact of exchange rates, the availability of financing to the exceptional items.
The Group has received a civil claim for Company, anticipated cost savings or synergies and damages from the Department of Health and Post Balance Sheet Event the completion of strategic transactions are forward looking statements.
These forward looking statements others in the UK, regarding alleged antiOn 8 January 2013 the Group obtained are not guarantees of future performance: by their competitive activity involving the Gaviscon control of Oriental Medicine Company Limited, nature, forward looking statements involve known brand.
The claim is under review and at this a manufacturer of traditional Chinese sore and unknown risk and uncertainty and other factors time the Directors do not believe that any throat products, by acquiring 100% of the because they relate to events and depend on potential impact would be material to the share capital.
circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a Group financial statements.
number of factors, discussed in this Report, that could On 10 February 2013, the Group entered into cause actual results and developments to differ The Group from time to time is involved in a three-year collaboration agreement with materially from those expressed or implied by these discussions in relation to ongoing tax matters in a Bristol-Myers Squibb, for a number of forward looking statements, including many factors number of jurisdictions around the world.
Where market-leading over-the-counter consumer outside RBs control.
Past performance cannot be appropriate, the Directors make provisions based health care brands in Brazil, Mexico and certain relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Each on their assessment of each case.
other parts of Latin America.
The Group will forward looking statement speaks as of the date of make an upfront cash payment of $482m the particular statement.
PROSPECTS c. 300m to enter into the arrangement which We continue to target net revenue growth on also includes personnel, supply contracts and average 200 bps per annum above our market an option to acquire legal title to the related growth, and moderate operating margin intellectual property at the end of the expansion excluding RB Pharmaceuticals in the ANNUAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board and the Executive Committee have identified a number of KPIs that are most relevant to the Group and are used to measure performance.
KPI 2012 2011 Comments Net revenue growth 5% 4% Measures the increase in sales of the Group % like-for-like growth of net revenue at constant exchange rates Powerbrands 70% 70% Measures the growth and importance of the % of total net revenue from 19 Powerbrands Groups flagship brands Gross margin % 57.9% 57.4% Measures the resources available for reinvestment Gross profit as % of total net revenue or profit growth Brand Equity Investment BEI 12.7% 12.0% Measures the rate of reinvestment in the BEI as % of total net revenue Groups brands Operating margin % 26.9% 26.2% Measures the profitability of the Group Operating profit as % of total net revenue Earnings per share fully diluted 264.4p 247.1p Measures the increase in profit per share of the Group % change in earnings per share fully diluted 7% 9% Net cash flow from operations 1,735m 1,581m Measures how the Group converts its profits into cash See page 42 10% 14% Net working capital -700m -701m Measures the ability of the Group to finance defined as inventories, trade and other receivables and -7.3% -7.4% its expansion and release cash from working capital trade and other payables as % of total net revenue Management turnover 8% 13% % of Top400 management that have left the Group % of total net revenue excl.
1 71% 71% Measures the health of the Groups or No.
2 brand positions brand market positions Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items.
