Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review expansion of our US business, whilst Review of 2012 across the Great Lakes we acquired a Despite continuing global macroeconomic 17,000 sq ft facility inMississauga to allow uncertainties, we managed to achieve for growth inourCanadian business.
record revenues and record profits, whilststill investing strongly in product An important aspect of our business development, people, infrastructure, formany years, and especially key at marketing channels and manufacturing atime of strong growth, new facilities capacity, to prepare the business for andcompany acquisitions, has been our futuregrowth.
investment in Information Technology IT systems.
Across the Groups worldwide The purchase of the Miskin site was operations we employ common hardware completed at the end of September 2011 and software systems, such as customer and an area of 68,500 sq ft approximately relationship management CRM software, 15% was refurbished to allow component which bring business efficiencies such as part production to commence during May lower costs of maintenance, less reliance 2012.
A multi-million pound investment on local IT staff and the ability to remotely was also made during the year in 29 CNC diagnose issues from the Groups central machine tools, of which 17 will be located IT functions.
It is also these efficiencies at Miskin and the remainder at our that enable Renishaw to be one of the Stonehouse machine shop.
In June 2012, quickest reporting companies listed in permission was also granted for a theLondon FTSE index.
26,000sq ft expansion of our existing Irish manufacturing facility, whilst associate During the year we worked on multiple business RLS moved to new purpose-built ITprojects including infrastructure at facilities in Slovenia.
Miskin and the new additive manufacturing business based in Staffordshire.
With projected future growth in R&D Recognising the benets of faster expenditure across all product lines and communication, plus time and the required growth in corporate support costsavings, there were also new functions, there were also planning videoconferencing systems installed applications submitted and approved atourofces in Bangalore, Old Town forexpansion at New Mills a phased Wotton-under-Edge, Staffordshire development of 230,000 sq ft and andthe York ofce of our subsidiary Chareld 50,000 sq ft.
In other territories, our Spanish subsidiary There was also a renewed focus on completed the purchase, refurbishment recruitment, enabling us to achieve both and move toa new facility near Barcelona an increase of 229 staff during the year airport, inItaly we purchased the building against a backdrop of skills shortages which we have occupied since the early andto revitalise our graduate recruitment 1990s, Renishaw Inc refurbished and programmes, which will see an additional re-occupied a 16,000 sq ft building 40 young people start their careers with formerly tenanted to provide space for Renishaw during summer 2012. production of dental structures and Client insight Quality is critical to us, we constantly strive to achieve 100% quality, at the same time as improving efficiency and passing those savings on to the customer.
Equator has taken us to another level.
Mr Shantibhai Changela Managing Director, Kishan Autoparts, Gujarat, India.
18 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Costs and gauging times cut by 80% and accuracy maintained despite temperature variations Kishan Autoparts based 55seconds, which is up to in Gujarat, India, is a 80% faster than Kishans world leader in the existing air gauges.
manufacture of engine TheEquator system can also connecting rods for many check all key dimensions, of the worlds leading whereas 3 or 4 different manufacturers in light expensive air gauges are andheavy commercial needed to check each rod vehicles, passenger cars, variant.
Despite shop oor tractors, marine engines, temperature variations of earthmoving equipment around 20C, measuring and compressors.
performance hasalso been unaffected dueto Equators A new Renishaw Equator unique re-mastering gauging system is currently process.
used to inspect over 70variants of connecting rods, typically taking just See more at www.
com $ 19 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review continued Above: Alejandro Silva, the new Director and General Above: Geoff McFarland and Leo Somerville with Manager of Renishaw Mexico Johnand Debbie Ray of R&R Sales LLC centre Market conditions Strategy After the strong global market recovery seen During the year there were examples of during the 2011 financial year, drivenby a actions that support several of our key combination of re-stocking andthe recovery strategic aims of strong local customer of capital investments inmanufacturing support, fast market entry via acquisition capacity, it was inevitable that this year and an increased focus on delivering growth would be at more modest levels.
In the first half of the year we saw good A new subsidiary was created in Mexico growth in the Americas and Europe, but as toprovide local support and to expand a result of a 25% decrease in sales toChina, ourmarketing activities in this growing primarily due to an industry andworldwide market, whilst in February 2012 the Group slowdown in the micro-electronics and acquired Thomas Engineering and opto-electronics markets, Far East sales Construction Limited, a Canadian-based were lower than the previous year.
However, company which distributes products an exceptionally strong final quarter for sales forMDL.
to China, driven by projects for consumer In April we acquired R&R Sales LLC, based products, meant that all key geographic in Michigan, USA, a supplier of xtures for areas grew above last year.
theglobal measurement and inspection Global investment in production systems market, to help gain access to an accessory forautomotive, civil aviation, agriculture and which will be important to help drive sales gauge and other metrology energy including oil, gas and renewables ofour Equator continued to boost sales.
These sectors system sales made to end users.
allrequire more complex technologies To further support solution sales our thatrequire tighter levels ofprocess control Applications Academy also extended its and measurement accuracy, whilst at the programmes to include sales development same time aiming for more cost-effective training and expanded itsgeographic reach processes.
Renishaw systems help to train engineers fromacross the Group, businesses to achieve these aims.
Theelectronics sector also showed signsofrecovery which isimportant forourencoder product line.
Client insight Since we started using Renishaw probes and software, we have been able to consistently manufacture critical components.
There has been a reduction of 66% in set-up time and we have stopped talking about component rejections and manual errors, as these have been eliminated completely.
H J Bishnu Director, Associated Tools, Kolkata, India.
20 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Precision manufacturer relies onRenishaw for the production ofcritical components Associated Tools, a Since adopting the machine Kolkata based Indian tool probes, Associated manufacturing company, Toolshas benefitted from uses BFW, LMW and anelimination of component Hurco machine tools, rejections and a 66% each one tted with reduction in tooling set-up Renishaw touch trigger times.
Additionally, with inspection probes and stable and predictable tool setting systems, for machining processes supplying products to the andautomated machines, defence industry.
Prior to the company is well installing probes, and placedtocompete for despite large investments high-accuracywork.
in machines, the company was facing problems with slow machining cycle times, set-up idle times, operator errors and inconsistent quality.
