"co. uk Business and financial review Nick McKittrick Ed Williams Chief Operating officer iv iVi""vwVi and Finance Director Our position, at the heart of home moving, comes from a What we do and the keys to success focus on providing the best internet platforms for buyers, Rightmove provides estate agents, lettings agents and new sellers, tenants and landlords backed by more than a decade homes developers access to the largest audience of UK of investment in the Rightmove website and infrastructure, home movers by enabling them to advertise all of their product innovation, continuous promotion of the Rightmove properties on the rightmove."
co. uk website and mobile brand and actively supporting our property advertising clients.
platforms for a monthly subscription fee.
Customers can also The Rightmove business strategy is to focus on organic take advantage of a wide set of advertising products to better growth through serving property advertisers seeking to reach promote their properties, brand and proposition.
Rightmoves the largest audience of UK home movers.
For our advertisers success comes from its market leading position with UK home movers and the value we add to our customers by we want to be their largest source of high quality enquiries giving them the ability to reach the largest audience of UK and, in the case of estate agents and lettings agents, an home movers.
important element of their own service offering to home sellers We believe the foundations of our success come from: and landlords.
Our shareholders benefit from our clear and U i`iii}ii continued policy of promptly returning the cash generated U i`iiL ` by the business through dividends and share buybacks.
U i`v `ii, iii]w `i }i i - i U `i}`V `ii v signicantly in 2012 compared to 2011, making it a record year on all of these metrics.
The majority of the increase in Sustained investment in serving home movers revenue came from our existing customers spending more on advertising with us.
The number of customers advertising on Home movers use Rightmove because it represents the Rightmove ended the year unchanged, reecting the stable easiest and most familiar way in which to view the best nature of the current housing market and Rightmoves high information about properties that are currently available on the market penetration.
market and those that have sold in the last 10 years.
The ease of use and quality of information we provide to home movers 2012 results results not just from the scale of our investment in our website 2 w vi and mobile apps but also from the experience we have built Vi i` { 1 up over more than a decade.
Underlying operating profit nx We continuously invest in developing the most engaging 2011: 69.4m.
Organic revenue growth drove overall revenue to 119.4m 2011: 97.0m which is up 22.4m website and apps for home movers, releasing over 2,500 1 ii ] ``i}VL i i Vii vwV}iLni }L{xi i } `i i`i 11.0 billion pages being viewed across all of our platforms scalability and profitability of the Rightmove business model.
We continue to be ranked in the top 10 most popular websites in the UK and as high as sixth in Li` }i] ViL]9 Li]i and Amazon.
6 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rightmove plc annual report 2012 Rightmoves strategy is to focus on organic growth through serving property advertisers seeking to reach the largest audience of UK home movers.
The continued rise in mobile access to the internet means Recognising the changing way in which people consume that a third of Rightmove property searches are now regularly media, we have used online videos to promote key features performed on mobile devices as millions of Britons have of Rightmove.
The Market Intelligence campaign which ran in downloaded our popular apps.
To support this growing the second half of 2012 used interactive video, customised trend in 2012 we launched an Android app, released major to a home movers postcode, to bring to life Rightmoves i Vii i ` ` ` i V} property research tools.
the latest version of our mobile website in early 2013.
We continue to receive around four out of five visits to our We also strive to deliver the best quality information to website from people typing in the Rightmove name, using our audience.
In 2012 we launched a unique facility which our mobile apps, responding to our email alerts, or using matches Land Registry sold prices with our catalogue of over unpaid links from other sites.
The remainder come from two billion property images to help home movers with their organic search.
We have also invested in a team of data qualityV i` iV ViL ` i experts to ensure the information on Rightmove is the most continue to be a successful way to promote Rightmove.
accurate available on any property portal.
i]- i `, iiiii`ii Vvi We further enhanced our commercial property website Rightmove brand by over half a million users every month.
during 2012 and with over 2 million commercial property This interaction is promoted both by close integration on the searches per month we have established ourselves as the Rightmove site itself and bespoke social media campaigns i `}ViV iiLii1 in such as the 12 Days of Christmas competition, which market share of trafc.
Although small in the overall context of attracted over 50,000 entries.
Rightmove revenues, this area provides an opportunity for further growth.
Sustained support for our advertisers The marketing of properties for sale and to rent is critical to Sustained investment in our brand the success of Rightmoves own customers leading to our Our strong brand recognition with the public and the focus on providing them with the best way to advertise to simplicity of the core service we provide have made Rightmove UK home movers.
the publics first choice to help them nd their next home.
Rightmove also devotes considerable effort to helping Much of our success comes from the positive experience that our customers be more successful in ways other than just home hunters have in using the services we provide.
Much of this is through individual day-to-day Nonetheless, we work hard to promote the brand in order support and advice from our local and telephone-based to build on more than 10 years of investment.
Both 2012 and early 2013 have been with TV advertising in 2012 with campaigns running in six notable for the number and range of other activities we have months of the year and into 2013.
A new campaign, building undertaken to help our customers to be more successful.
on the Britain Moves at Rightmove theme is to be launched As tablet computing becomes more prevalent, more vendors -}]iyiV}iv V i, }iiLi expect agents to show that they understand the benets new is a place where people dream and daydream about where technology can bring through the tools they use, as well as by they want to live.
