D A C 22 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Business segment review Advanced Surgical Devices Smith & Nephew has leadership positions in Orthopaedic Reconstruction, Sports Medicine and Trauma.
2 1,2 Revenue Trading profit $3,108m 2% $728m 8% 2010 3,050 2010 736 2011 3,251 2011 714 2012 3,108 2012 728 2 1 Operating profit Trading profit margin $632m 7% 23.4% 150 bps 2010 700 2010 24.1 2011 630 2011 21.9 2012 632 2012 23.4 2 Revenue by franchise $m Product franchise growth % A Knee Implants 874 Knee Implants 3 B Hip Implants 666 Hip Im plants -3 C Sports Medicine Joint Repair 521 D Arthroscopic Enabling Sport s Medicine Joint Repair 8 Technologies 409 E Trauma 462 Arthr oscopic Enabling Technologies -2 F Other ASD 176 Trau ma 3 Other 5 1 Explanations of these non-GAAP financial measures are provided on pages 44 to 46.
2 Underlying growth percentage after adjusting for the effect of currency translation and disposals.
indd 22 26 02 2013 09:30 F B E marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information section 3 marketplace and business segment review 23 In January 2012, the Group announced its intention to Overview sell its Biologics and Clinical Therapies business CT to In 2012, the Advanced Surgical Devices global division Bioventus LLC Bioventus.
The creation of Bioventus gave ASD developed, manufactured and sold products in the CT the resources to address longer term development following franchise areas: projects.
Smith & Nephew has a 49% shareholding in the new venture, maintaining access to the area of Knee Implants orthobiologics, whilst realising value for reinvestment in Hip Implants nearer term opportunities.
This transaction was completed on 4 May 2012 for a total consideration of $367m and Sports Medicine Joint Repair resulted in a profit before taxation of $251m.
CTs revenue in the four month period to disposal was $69m and profit Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies before taxation was $12m.
CTwas reported within the Trauma Other franchise.
Products are manufactured at sites around the world.
The main facilities are located in Memphis, TN, Mansfield, Acquisitions MA and Oklahoma City, OK in the US.
Products are also In 2012, the Group acquired LifeModeler, Inc. LMI.
manufactured in Aarau, Switzerland, Tuttlingen, Germany, Leamington Spa Warwick, UK, Beijing, China and Calgary, LMI is the leading provider of biomechanical human body Canada, as well as by third-party manufacturers.
Major simulation tools and services and the developer of the service centres are located in the US, UK, Germany, Japan groundbreaking software used in creating the JOURNEY and Australia.
With this new software, orthopaedic innovations can be tested and validated faster and more cost effectively prior to the production of a physical Strategy prototype, potentially shortening the time it takes to ASD was created in 2011 with the merger of the orthopaedic develop new products and take to market.
The momentum gained from this merger continued in 2012.
The division continues to take a disciplined and objective approach to resource Market and competition allocation among its core Hip Implant, Knee Implant and In 2012, weaker economic conditions worldwide continued Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies and growth Sports to create several challenges for the overall surgical devices Medicine Joint Repair, Trauma and Other, including market, including continued deferrals of joint replacement Gynaecology franchises.
In the core franchise areas, procedures and heightened pricing pressures.
ASD will continue to position itself through innovation These factors contributed to the lower overall growth of and process improvement to grow with the market and the worldwide surgical devices market versus historic deliver earnings.
In the growth franchises, the division comparables.
However, over the medium term, several is investing increasing amounts in innovation, rapid catalysts are expected to continue to drive sustainable iterations andmarket development to take both share growth in surgical device procedures, including the andleadership positions.
growing and ageing population with active lifestyles, The Emerging and International markets have become an rising rates of co-morbidities such as obesity and increasingly important opportunity for Advanced Surgical diabetes, patient desire for minimally invasive procedures, Device products.
Significant progress was made in these technology improvements allowing surgeons to treat markets in 2012 with investment in division management, younger, more active patients, and the increasing strength local management, sales teams and products.
of the demand for healthcare in Emerging markets.
In April, ASD, along with the Advanced Wound Management division, announced the start of a major Global orthopaedic reconstruction segment initiative to align and optimise the infrastructure and operational activities across Smith & Nephew in Europe.
Smith & Nephew estimates that the global orthopaedic Known as the European Process Optimisation, this multireconstruction segment is worth approximately year commitment will deliver a standard and simplified $13.6bn and the segment served by Smith & Nephew set of processes underpinned by a common enterprise grew by approximately 3% in 2012.
Competitors in the resource planning platform and business intelligence orthopaedics reconstruction segment include Zimmer, system.
Stryker, Johnson & Johnson and Biomet.
ASD also began phasing out slow and non-moving product components in 2012.
The division has plans to Global orthopaedic trauma segment address the number of product components further by Smith & Nephew estimates that the global orthopaedic reducing the number of platforms.
trauma segment is worth approximately $4.5bn ASD provides medical education through a variety of and the segment served by Smith & Nephew grew training and education services tailored to individual by approximately 3% in 2012.
Competitors in the surgeon needs.
The Group also focuses on knowledge orthopaedics trauma segment include Zimmer, Stryker sharing, utilising the worlds top specialists and key and Johnson & Johnson.
The ASD business supports its medical education strategy with investment in surgeon education programmes, global fellowship support initiatives, partnerships with professional associations and surgeon advisory boards.
indd 23 26 02 2013 09:30 D A C 24 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Giving surgeons access toinnovative design Business segment review continued LEGION HK Hinge Knee The LEGION HK Hinge Knee gives surgeons access to an innovative design that transforms a complex salvage procedure into an anatomically-based joint rescue procedure.
2011 Global Sports Medicine segment ASD revenue increased by 7% to $3,251m from $3,050m Smith & Nephew estimates that the global sports in 2010.
Of this increase, 3% was attributable to medicine segment representing access, resection underlying growth and 4% was due to favourable currency and repair products is worth approximately $4.1bn movements.
and the segment served by Smith & Nephew grew by In the Established markets, revenue was $2,910m.
Competitors in the sports represented an underlying increase of 2% from 2010. medicine segment include Arthrex, Johnson & Johnson and Stryker.
In the US, revenue was $1,567m, which represents an underlying growth of 2% from 2010.
In the Established markets outside of the US, revenue was $1,343m which Financial performance represented an underlying increase of 1% from 2010.
Revenue In the Emerging and International markets revenue was 2012 $341m which represents an underlying increase of 21% Revenue $m from 2010.
A Knee Implants 874 B Hip Implants 666 Trading profit C Sports Medicine Joint Repair 521 D Arthroscopic Enabling 2012 Technologies 409 E Trauma 462 Trading profit increased by $14m 2% to $728m from F Other ASD 176 $714m in 2011.
Trading profit margin increased from 21.9% to 23.4%.
These increases reflect the early benefits of implementing the Strategic Priorities, in particular, restructuring the Group to provide the right commercial models and cost structure.
Of this decrease, underlying growth of 2% is offset Trading profit decreased by $22m 8% to $714m from by -2% due to unfavourable currency movements and $736m in 2010.
Trading profit margin decreased from -4% due to the effect of disposal of the Clinical Therapies 24.1% to 21.9%.
This decrease was due to continuing business.
pricing pressure, adverse mix and some delay in the The underlying increase in ASD revenue reconciles to execution of our efficiency programme.
reported growth, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with IFRS, as follows: Operating profit 2012 2011 2012 % % Operating profit increased by $2m from $630m in 2011 Reported growth 4 8 to $632m in 2012.
This comprises the increase in trading Constant currency exchange effect 2 4 profit of $14m discussed above and the recognition of Disposals effect 4 a legal claim of $23m in 2011, offset by an increase of Underlying growth 2 4 $10m in the amortisation of acquisition intangibles and a $25m increase in restructuring and rationalisation In the Established markets, revenue decreased by $163m costs.
Operating profit, the most directly comparable to $2,747m -6%.
financial measure calculated in accordance with IFRS, In the US, revenue decreased by $118m to $1,449m -8%.
reconciles totrading profit as follows: Thismovement is attributable to underlying growth of 1% 2012 2011 and -9% due to the effect of the disposal of the Clinical $m $m Therapies business.
In the Established markets outside of the US revenue decreased by $45m to $1,298m -3%.
Operating profit 632 630 Underlying growth was 1% with -4% due to unfavourable Restructuring and rationalisation costs 57 32 currency movements.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 39 29 In Emerging and International markets, revenue increased Legal settlement 23 by $20m to $361m 6%.
Underlying growth was 10% with Trading profit 728 714 -4% due to unfavourable currency.
indd 24 26 02 2013 09:30 F B E marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information section 3 marketplace and business segment review 25 2 1,2 ASD Revenue Trading profit $3.1bn 2% $728m 8% 2011: $3.3bn 2011: $714m Advanced Surgical Devices trading profit and operating Franchises profit as a percentage of Group trading profit and Underlying revenue growth for key product lines are: operating profit was as follows: 2012 2011 2012 2011 2010 % % % % % Reconstruction Trading profit 75 74 76 Knee implants 3 5 Operating profit 75 73 76 Hip implants 3 1 2011 Sports Medicine 8 11 Operating profit decreased by $70m to $630m from Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies 2 $700m in 2010.
This comprised of a decrease in trading Trauma 3 3 profit of $22m discussed above, an increase of $3m in the amortisation of acquisition intangibles, a $22m increase Orthopaedic and sports medicine procedures tend to be in restructuring and rationalisation costs and $23m in higher in the winter months quarter one and quarter four respect of the legal provision.
when accidents and sports related injuries are highest.
Conversely, elective procedures tend to slow down in thesummer months due to holidays.
Regulatory approvals In 2012, the Advanced Surgical Devices division obtained regulatory clearances approvals for several key products Orthopaedic reconstruction and instrumentations.
The division offers a range of specialist products for In the US, 510 k clearance was obtained for Hip, Knee and orthopaedic reconstruction through its Hip implant and Trauma franchise products including POLARCUP with Ti Knee implant franchises.
HA Coating, REDAPT Revision Femoral System, JOURNEY Both the knee and hip implant markets continue to II CR Knee System and JOURNEY II Deep Dished Articular experience economic pressure.
In addition, 510 k clearance was obtained revenue increased by 1% to $874m in 2012 which for Twinfix Ultra PK, TI, HA gluteal tendon indications: represented an underlying revenue growthof 3% and Footprint Ultra PK gluteal tendon indications: BIORAPTOR, unfavourable foreign currency translation of -2%.
This OSTEORAPTOR labral reconstruction indications: and compared to a market growth rate of 3%.
Growth slowed allograft transplant indications.
in the second half of 2012 as a result of a weakening of Several products were approved in Japan including the overall knee market in Europe and the divisions knee ANTHOLOGY Hip Stems, LEGION VERILAST CR, PS and product cycle.
Between 2009 and 2011, when the division Revision Knee Systems, BIOLOX Delta Ceramic Femoral materially outperformed the knee market, it benefited Heads, GENESIS II Constrained Articular Inserts and from the launch of VERILAST Technology and VISIONAIRE TRIGEN Low Profile Bone Screws.
This benefit has now been annualised.
In Europe, the division renewed approval for JOURNEY BCS Knee System and obtained approval for JOURNEY In the global Hip implant franchise revenue decreased II BCS Knee System.
In Canada, POLARCUP XLPE by $39m to $666m -6% in 2012, representing a -3% Acetabular Liners were approved.
underlying revenue decline in the face of the continuing metal-on-metal headwinds and -2% due to unfavourable foreign currency translation.
The Hip implant franchise, led by the ANTHOLOGY Hip with VERILAST Technology, has also continued to perform well in its focus product areas.
Sales of our BIRMINGHAM Hip Resurfacing system continued to decline during the year.
The BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing System is a clinically proven system for hip resurfacing which preserves bone and is particularly suited for younger, more active male patients.
ASD launched several new products across its Orthopaedic Reconstruction portfolio in 2012.
1 Explanations of these non-GAAP financial measures are provided on pages 44 to 46.
indd 25 26 02 2013 09:30 26 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Giving advantages to both thepatient and the surgeon.
Business segment review continued REDAPT Revision Hip System The REDAPT Revision Hip System gives advantages to both the patient through more anatomic function and the surgeon who benefits from a versatile product and a shorter learning curve.
In the Hip implant franchise, the REDAPT Revision Trauma Femoral Hip System was launched, offering surgeons one The divisions Trauma franchise offers both internal and reproducible system for any type of hip revision.
Also, the external devices, aswell as other products such as POLARCUP Dual Mobility Hip System, widely available orthobiological materials used in the stabilisation of severe in Europe, was introduced in the US.
In Knee implants, fractures and deformity correction procedures.
the launch of the LEGION HK Hinge Knee System and the LEGION Narrow Femoral Components continue to In the US the division is implementing a refined expand the versatility of the LEGION Total Knee System.
commercial model that increases the focus and resources InJapan, the LEGION Revision knee system and VERILAST needed to address the opportunities in the high-growth Technology for primary knee replacements were approved trauma and extremities markets.
Global Trauma revenue increased by $5m to $462m 1%, Implant bearing surfaces such as the proprietary representing underlying revenue growth of 3% and-2% OXINIUM Oxidized Zirconium continue to be a point of unfavourable foreign currency translation.
OXINIUM Technology In 2012, both the VLP FOOT Percutaneous Calcaneus combines the enhanced wear resistance of a ceramic Plating System and the PERI-LOC Ankle Fusion Plating bearing with the superior toughness of a metallic bearing.
System were launched as part of the Groups ALL 28 When combined with highly cross-linked polyethylene Foot and Ankle Portfolio.
Both systems are available XLPE it results in ASDs proprietary VERILAST Technology.
to surgeons in North America, Europe and Australia In hip implants, the combination of a ceramicised and offer solutions for increasingly popular surgical metal head and a polyethylene lined cup have been approaches.
The VLP FOOT Percutaneous Calcaneus shown in joint registry data to have superior five-year System is designed for the percutaneous approach and survivorship 97.9% compared to implants made from is the only plating system to offer variable-angle locking any other material.
In knees, the LEGION Primary Knee technology.
The PERI-LOC Ankle Fusion Plating System with VERILAST Technology is the only knee implant with isthe only system to offer surgeons options for the a 30-year wear performance claim morethan double posterior approach which minimises soft tissue irritation the length of wear performance testing of conventional and preserves the fibula.
For trauma, the principal internal fixation products are Another driver of Knee implant growth has been theTRIGEN family of IM nails TRIGEN META-NAIL System, VISIONAIRE Patient Matched Instrumentation.
With TRIGEN Humeral Nail System, TRIGEN SURESHOT, and VISIONAIRE Instrumentation, a patients MRI and X-rays TRIGEN INTERTAN.
For extremities and limb restoration, are used to create customised cutting blocks that allow the the franchise offers the TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME Circular surgeon to achieve optimal mechanical axis alignment of Fixation System as well as a range of plates, screws, the new implant.
In addition, VISIONAIRE also helps save arthroscopes, instrumentation, resection, and suture time by reducing the number of steps and instruments anchor products for foot & ankle surgeons and hand & needed in the operating room.
The LEGION GENESIS II Total Knee System is a comprehensive system designed to allow surgeons to address a wide range of knee procedures from primary torevision.
The JOURNEY Active Knee Solutions is a family of advanced, customised products designed to treat early to mid-stage osteoarthritis patients, and provide more normal feeling and motion through bone ligament preservation and anatomic replication.
In 2012, the second iteration of the JOURNEY Knee System, the JOURNEY II BCS, commenced a limited commercial release.
For Hip implants, core systems include the ANTHOLOGY Hip System, SYNERGY Hip System, the SMF Short Modular Femoral Hip System, the R3 Acetabular System, the POLARCUP Dual Mobility Hip System and the SL-PLUS Hip Family System.
indd 26 26 02 2013 09:30 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information section 3 marketplace and business segment review 27 Sports Medicine Joint Repair Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies AET The divisions Sports Medicine Joint Repair franchise The divisions Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies offers surgeons a broad array of instruments, technologies franchise offers healthcare providers a variety of and implants necessary to perform minimally invasive technologies such as fluid management equipment for surgery of the joints, including knee, hip and shoulder surgical access: high definition cameras, digital image repair.
capture, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation inside the joints: radiofrequency RF probes, Global revenue from Sports Medicine Joint Repair electromechanical and mechanical blades, and hand increased by $30m to $521m 6%, ofwhich 8% was instruments for removing damaged tissue.
underlying growth and -2% unfavourable foreign currency translation.
AET revenue decreased by $16m to $409m -4% in 2012, which represented an underlying revenue decline of -2% The franchise benefited from the launch ofseveral classand -2% of unfavourable foreign currency translation.
leading products during the year.
Theseincluded The HEALICOIL PK Suture Anchor for both shoulder and hip Key AET products include the wide range of DYONICS repair, ENDOBUTTON CL Ultra 10mm Fixation Device, shaver blades, ACUFEX handheld instruments, and a CLANCY Flexible Drill System andACUFEX PINPOINT wide range of radiofrequency probes.
Launched in 2011, Anatomic ACL Guide System.
TheGroup also obtained the DYONICS Platinum Series Shaver Blades are singleUS FDA clearance for expandingthe indications of the use blades that provide superior resection due to their HEALICOIL PK Suture Anchor and the OSTEORAPTOR unequalled sharpness and virtually eliminate clogging Suture Anchor for use inhip arthroscopy.
dueto their improved debris evacuation capabilities.
The HEALICOIL PK Suture Anchor features a revolutionary In 2012, the AET business obtained regulatory clearance open-architecture design that uses less material than in the United States and Europe for the DYONICS Platinum traditional, solid-core anchors while still providing Blades 4.5 5.5mm.
significantly more thread engagement and greater pullout strength than its competitors.
The ENDOBUTTON CL Other Ultra 10mm Fixation Device is the franchises shortest continuous loop.
It is designed for the growing number The divisions Other franchise includes smaller ofsurgeons who want to maximise the interface between businesses such as Gynaecology, and the Clinical the graft and the femoral tunnel, a feature especially Therapies business, the latter of which was transferred to important when using the anatomic technique to repair Bioventus in May 2012. the ACL.
The revenue in this Other franchise excluding Clinical Joining other offerings such as the ACUFEX PINPOINT Therapies increased by $2m to $69m 5%, which Anatomic ACL Guide System, CLANCY Anatomic represented an underlying revenue growth of 7% and -2% Cruciate Guide, and BIOSURE Interference Screws, the of unfavourable foreign currency translation.
ENDOBUTTON CL Ultra 10mm Fixation Device is part of a The franchises key gynaecology product is the TRUCLEAR complete portfolio of options forsurgeons performing a System, a first-of-its-kind hysteroscopic morcellator that wide variety of anatomic ACLreconstructions.
pairs continuous visualisation capabilities with minimally invasive tissue removal providing safe and efficient removal of endometrial polyps and submucousal fibroids.
A major advance for The Group also sells a hysteroscopic fluid management system, which provides uterine distension and clear non-invasive surgeons visualisation during hysteroscopic procedures.
HEALICOIL PK Suture Anchor In 2012, the franchise introduced two additions to the TRUCLEAR System, the smaller-sized TRUCLEAR The HEALICOIL PK Suture Anchor 5.0 System and the TRUCLEAR ULTRA Reciprocating is a major advance for non-invasive Morcellator 4.0. surgeons as its unique open architecture provides significantly morethread engagement and greater pullout strength.
