BUSINESS BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE Overall performance for the year has been extremely encouraging in a number of key respects: faster organic growth with service numbers up by 18.0% 2011: 12.1% significant improvement in customer quality - lower churn - lower delinquency - increase in number of services taken strong cash generation Our improvement in organic growth has been driven by continuing high levels of confidence amongst our distributors in our brand and financial strength, the good value provided by our services, and our commitment to delivering a consistently first class customer service experience.
We are also benefiting from the continuing difficult economic climate, which makes both our value-based customer proposition and part-time earning opportunity look increasingly attractive against the background of a broader economy where working hours are being cut, wages are being frozen, part-time jobs are less readily available and disposable incomes are under pressure.
MARGINS Our overall gross margin improved during the year to 16.2% 2011: 15.9%.
The principal factors behind this were the favourable timing of the higher retail energy tariffs at the start of the autumn, combined with the benefit of the oneoff 3m marketing support contribution which we received from npower during the year.
Although we anticipate a modest improvement in the gross margin we earn on each of the individual services we provide, the rising trend in energy retail prices which has a high annual cost but a relatively low gross margin is likely to account for an increasing proportion of household spend over time compared with telephony services which have a much lower annual cost but a much higher gross margin.
Notwithstanding the rising penetration of telephony services within our customer base this progressive change in the mix of our revenues means we are reducing our gross margin guidance, which is now expected to be within a range of 13% to 15% slightly below the 14% to 16% range we had previously indicated for the foreseeable future.
However, the impact of this percentage reduction at the operating margin level should be more than offset by the improving quality of our customer base and increasing economies of scale as we continue to grow.
We maintain a strong focus on controlling our cost base, and are pleased that our administration expenses which include bad debts remained broadly steady at 6.9% of revenue despite worsening conditions in the wider economy, and a significant increase in headcount to support our investment in rapid organic growth.
Bad debts remained stable as a percentage of sales at 9.3m 2011: 8.2m.
Distribution costs increased from 3.2% to 3.4% of turnover, primarily reflecting a substantial increase in customer acquisition costs during the year.
This is a direct result of our decision to focus on acquiring higher quality customers, and willingness to incur the associated higher unit costs which will be more than offset by their significantly higher lifetime value.
The total commission paid to distributors increased to 16.0m 2011: 13.3m reflecting the growth in turnover and increase in growth related payments.
The increase in staff numbers reflects the growth in our customer base, as we focus on maintaining our strong reputation for delivering an exceptionally high standard of customer service.
We continue to look for efficiency savings throughout the business, with a view to taking full advantage of the economies of scale we believe are achievable as we continue to grow.
11 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED MARKET Our focus is on supplying a wide range of essential utility services to both domestic and small business customers: these are substantial markets and represent a considerable opportunity for further organic growth.
We remain a small operator in a market dominated by former monopoly suppliers and a handful of other new entrants.
However, our unique position as the only integrated multi-utility supplier gives us a considerable competitive advantage.
We combine a highly efficient cost base, good customer service and competitive pricing with the unique benefit of a single monthly bill for each customer and an increasingly attractive range of other membership benefits.
CUSTOMERS 2012 2011 Residential Club 333,497 293,292 Business Club 26,649 24,506 Total Club 360,146 317,798 Non Club 45,005 43,156 Total Telecom Plus 405,151 360,954 TML 10,338 10,396 Total Group 415,489 371,350 Our customer base can be split into four groups as set out in the above table, each of which has different characteristics: i Residential customers who are members of the Utility Warehouse Discount Club 80.3% of our customers.
On average these customers each take 3.63 services: ii Small businesses who are members of the Utility Warehouse Discount Club for Business 6.4% of our customers.
On average these customers each take 2.46 services: iii Residential customers who are not members of our Discount Club 10.8% of our customers.
These are typically either households who became telephony customers before the Club concept was launched, or who have moved into a property where we are the incumbent energy supplier and have not yet applied to join the Club, or where we are only providing energy services on a prepayment basis.
On average, these customers each take 1.64 services: iv Small businesses signed up through our wholly-owned TML subsidiary 2.5% of our customers.
On average these customers each take 2.96 services.
Within the residential Club, there is a further difference in quality and therefore in the revenues and profits they will generate over the time they remain a Club member both between customers who are homeowners and those who are tenants, and also depending on the numbers of services we are providing to them.
We have therefore been extremely pleased to see an improvement in the proportion of homeowners to 74.9% during the course of the year.
12 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS More recently, we have achieved considerable success in focussing our distributors on gathering Gold Status members customers taking at least 4 services as can be seen from the graph below: 60% PERCENTAGE OF GOLD STATUS CUSTOMERS 55% 50% 45% 40% 35% 30% 25% 20% MAR 11 APR 11 MAY 11 JUN 11 JUL 11 AUG 11 SEP 11 OCT 11 NOV 11 DEC 11 JAN 12 FEB 12 MAR 12 APR 12 Members with Gold Status benefit from our most competitive prices, generate higher commission for distributors, and have the greatest lifetime value.
Overall monthly churn in our residential Club fell during the year to an average of around 1.4% 2011: 1.7%.
This improvement illustrates the impact of the steadily improving quality of our customer base following the steps we have taken since 2009 to reduce the proportion of tenants, and reflecting the increasing average number of services being supplied: 2.0% RESIDENTIAL CLUB CHURN 1.8% 1.6% 1.4% 1.2% 1.0% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY10 FY10 FY10 FY10 FY11 FY11 FY11 FY11 FY12 FY12 FY12 FY12 13 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED These churn figures include any member who moves out of a property we are supplying either because it is sold or they have come to the end of their tenancy, notwithstanding that a proportion of the new occupiers who move into such properties subsequently choose us as their new supplier: this means that if we reported our churn on the basis of services we cease to supply, then our reported churn would be even lower.
The rise in the average number of services being taken under our Utility Warehouse brand to 3.55 2011: 3.36 and continued growth in our Business Club has led to a further increase in average revenue per customer during the year, partially offset by the adverse impact of the warm weather last winter: 1,200 AVERAGE REVENUE PER CUSTOMER 1,100 1,000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 These revenue figures relate to the Customer Management operating segment and exclude our TML subsidiary We enjoy high levels of overall customer satisfaction, as evidenced by the positive reviews we receive from Which?
magazine on a regular basis, the extensive customer survey we conducted last autumn in which over 96% of respondents said they would recommend us to a friend, the relatively low churn we experience, and the growing confidence of our distribution channel.
Our exclusive CashBack card continues to generate significant monthly savings for our members, although we have seen a reduction in average spend as the recession has started to bite over the last 12 months.
However, we have seen a positive trend in the number of customers who are using our online shopping portal and price comparison service to help them find the cheapest online supplier for a wide range of everyday household goods, and to earn additional CashBack.
14 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS SERVICES Our full range of services include Fixed Telephony calls and line rental, Mobile, Non-Geographic Numbers, CashBack card, Gas, Electricity and Broadband.
At the year end we supplied a total of 1,381,023 services 2011: 1,171,136, representing a net overall increase of 17.9% during the course of the year.
Of particular note, the proportion of fixed telephony customers taking line rental as well as using us for their calls increased from 77% to 82% during the year, and the number of mobile services being provided increased by 51%.
CASHBACK CARD Our exclusive CashBack card, which we launched in October 2008, is an important customer acquisition and retention tool.
It gives our members the opportunity to achieve additional savings of between 3% and 7% on their shopping at a wide range of participating retailers, which they receive as a credit on their next monthly bill from us.
We have seen a 40% increase in the number of cards in issue to 101,351 2011: 72,611, with the proportion of new residential Club members applying for a card now stable at around 35%.
We believe this level of take-up reflects the difficulty faced by many new customers in funding the switch from paying in arrears on their current credit card, to paying for their purchases in advance with a prepaid card.
We paid over 4.4m 2011: 3.5m in CashBack to our members during the year funded entirely by the retailers in the programme, with many achieving a reduction of between 20% and 30% on the amount they pay for the utilities we are supplying to them each month, simply by using their CashBack card instead of an alternative payment card for most of their regular household shopping.
15 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED CUSTOMER SERVICE We pride ourselves on delivering first-class customer service through a single call centre based in the UK.
We try to ensure where possible that the first person a customer speaks to is able to resolve any issues with their account, irrespective of how many different services we are providing to them.
We continue to invest in improving the customer service experience we deliver, with specialist teams focussed on managing delinquent customers and resolving issues which have arisen from the inefficiencies in the standard industry processes for switching energy customers between suppliers.
We have introduced a range of qualitative and quantitative performance measurement tools into our call centre, which enable us to monitor and improve the overall quality of our members customer service experience, and have been delighted at the consistently high customer service rating we receive in the regular surveys in Which?
EMPLOYEES We rely on the combined efforts of nearly 600 employees to manage relationships with both our customers and distributors, and deliver a consistently high quality of service at all times.
We pay considerable attention to recruiting, developing and retaining people with appropriate skills.
The combination of valuing and developing our staff, our service-oriented culture and the day-to-day reinforcement of our core values are key competitive advantages in enabling us to attract and retain a motivated, talented and diverse workforce.
Opportunities for employment, training, career progression and promotion are determined on the basis of each individuals ability, attitude and track record, irrespective of their gender, ethnic origin, nationality, age, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
We continue to invest in our people, and have introduced a Management Development Programme and apprenticeship schemes.
We promote from within where possible, and, to enhance career progression within the Company, have introduced a new role of Senior Advisor within our call centre and administration teams.
Our monthly Employee Recognition Awards enable the Company to celebrate and reward employees who have performed exceptionally.
We keep employees informed on a regular basis of the financial performance of the business and other matters of potential concern to them, through the Company intranet, ad-hoc emails, the monthly Company newsletter and quarterly breakfast forums with the CEO.
We operate an open-door policy throughout the business, and provide staff with various mechanisms for providing feedback and making suggestions, including an annual staff survey.
We have an active staff social committee which organises a wide range of events, supported by the Company, including the annual Summer and Christmas parties.
We also have a Fun Fund set aside for departmental social events.
We promote staff well being, through our Fit Pig health awareness week, subsidised on-site fitness classes, periodic at-desk massages, healthy meal options in the staff canteen and a Cycle to Work scheme.
We continue to invest in our premises as necessary, to ensure the working environment is as attractive as possible, consistent with the practical needs of running the business.
With the exception of our warehouse team, all our employees now work together in Network HQ, our Head Office building.
We operate a heavily subsidised staff restaurant, and provide a Recreation Room in both our Head Office and warehouse premises.
We provide a wide range of other staff benefits including a significant discount on the services we provide, employee loans at preferential interest rates, a generous Christmas Bonus scheme and recognition for five and 10 years service.
16 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS We are pleased to report that we have seen reduced levels of staff absence this year.
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved employee share option plan, under which employees are granted options to purchase shares in the Company which are exercisable between three and 10 years from the date of grant.
The exercise price is the market price at the time of granting the option.
Our policy is to issue options to all employees after the satisfactory completion of their probationary period, and additional options when 10 years service has been completed and in other appropriate circumstances eg.
As at 31 March 2012 there were outstanding options over 1,411,720 shares which had been granted to staff, representing approximately 2% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Employees returning from maternity leave with children less than 12 months old are able to benefit from a company contribution towards the cost of an external childcare service provider of their choice.
We also provide facilities for staff to purchase childcare vouchers in a tax-efficient manner using a salary sacrifice scheme, in accordance with HM Revenue and Customs guidelines.
We encourage all employees to participate in a stakeholder pension scheme operated by Legal & General.
Participants can choose their own contribution level, which is matched by the Company within certain limits, depending on length of service.
DISTRIBUTORS Distributors remain one of the key strengths of our business.
In contrast to other utility suppliers, the alignment of financial interest provided by our revenue-sharing model, the structure of our compensation plan, and the substantial number of distributors who hold equity or share options in the Company, incentivises them to focus their activities on finding creditworthy higher-spending customers who will reap the maximum savings from using our services, and will thus be least likely to churn: by doing so, they maximise their own long-term income.
This ensures that cases of misselling are generally both inadvertent and extremely rare.
We make available a variety of training courses both online and classroom based, designed to provide both the skills and knowledge they need to gather customers and recruit other distributors effectively and successfully: virtually all of these courses are free to attend.
Our Car Plan, which provides eligible distributors with a subsidised Utility Warehouse branded Mini, remains extremely popular.
We supplied 61 new cars during the year, taking the total number in use to 370 2011: 309.
Users inform us that they find these helpful in raising their local profile, resulting in enquiries from both potential new customers and distributors.
ENVIRONMENT We are conscious of the role we have to play in minimising the environmental impact of our activities.
We operate an energy efficiency helpline to provide advice to customers on how they can reduce their energy usage: we enable qualifying customers to access free home insulation: we actively promote Feed-In Tariffs: and we encourage customers to monitor their energy usage by providing regular meter readings.
Our online membership offers customers additional savings in return for not receiving a paper bill each month.
This category is attracting around one third of all new members, which has a beneficial impact on the amount of paper we use.
We launched an improved website for our distributors in November 2011, including an online application process.
This is accounting for an average of between 60% and 70% of customer applications, which is expected to greatly reduce the quantity of paper application forms we need to print in future.
17 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED We participate in the Shred-it recycling programme, with a certificated saving of 374 trees during the year: we also recycle all of our cardboard, and use only fsc-certified paper: our office lighting is low-energy, and controlled by motion sensors, which automatically turn off lights in unused areas of the building: our air-conditioning is constantly monitored, and is zonal to small areas, allowing close management of heating and cooling.
We recycle both mobile phones and toner cartridges, within the scope of our Charity of the Year partnership.
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT We were very pleased to launch our first Charity of the Year partnership, starting in January 2012, in support of the Make-A-Wish foundation, which grants magical wishes to children and young people fighting lifethreatening conditions.
The choice of charity partner was made following a vote by both employees and distributors, who selected Make-AWish from a shortlist consisting of the five charities which had received the most nominations from our employees.
The Company has agreed to match all monies raised for Make-A-Wish in 2012 by staff, distributors and customers, subject to a maximum of 100,000.
On a more local level, we have piloted a scheme to offer positions to unemployed young people living near our Head Office.
PRINCIPAL RISKS Background The Group faces various risk factors, both internal and external, which could have a material impact on long-term performance.
However, the Companys underlying business model is considered relatively low-risk, with no need for management to take any disproportionate risks in order to preserve or generate shareholder value.
The Group continues to develop and operate a consistent and systematic risk management process, which involves risk ranking, prioritisation and subsequent evaluation, with a view to ensuring all significant risks have been identified, prioritised and where possible eliminated, and that systems of control are in place to manage any remaining risks.
As described in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 33, a formal document is prepared by the executive directors and senior management team on a regular basis detailing the key risks faced by the Group and the operational controls in place to mitigate those risks: this document is then reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Business model The principal risks outlined below should be viewed in the context of the Groups business model as a reseller of utility services gas, electricity, fixed line telephony, mobile telephony and broadband internet under the Utility Warehouse and TML brands.
As a reseller, the Group does not own any of the network infrastructure required to deliver its services to customer.
This means that while the Company is heavily reliant on third party providers, it is insulated from all the direct risks associated with owning and or operating such capital intensive infrastructure itself.
The Groups services are promoted using 'word of mouth' by a large network of independent distributors, who are paid solely on a commission basis.
This means that the Group has minimal fixed costs associated with acquiring new customers.
The principal specific risks arising from the Groups business model, and the measures taken to mitigate those risks, are set out below: 18 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS Reputational risk The Groups reputation amongst its customers, suppliers and independent distributors is fundamental to the future success of the Group.
Failure to meet expectations in terms of the services we provide, the way that we do business or in our financial performance could have a material negative impact on the Groups performance.
In relation to customer service, reputational risk is principally mitigated through a focus on closely monitoring staff performance and through the provision of rigorous staff training.
During the year a new Customer Services Director was appointed to take direct responsibility for resolving any key issues which may arise.
Responsibility for maintaining effective relationships with suppliers and distributors rests primarily with the appropriate member of the Groups senior management team with responsibility for the relevant area.
Any material changes to supplier agreements and distributor commission arrangements which could impact the Groups relationships are generally negotiated by the executive directors and ultimately approved by the full Board.
Information technology risk The Company is dependent on its proprietary billing and customer management software for the successful operation of its business model.
This software is developed and maintained in accordance with the changing needs of the business by a team of highly skilled, long-standing, motivated and experienced individuals.
All significant changes which are made to the billing and customer management software are extensively tested before launch and are ultimately approved by the heads of the IT and Billing departments in consultation with the Chief Executive as appropriate.
Back-ups of both the software and underlying billing and customer data are made on a regular basis and securely stored off-site.
The Group also has extensive back-up information technology infrastructure in the event of a failure of the main system, ensuring that a near-seamless service to customers can be maintained.
Legislative and regulatory risk The Group is subject to varying laws and regulations, including possible adverse effects from European regulatory intervention.
The majority of the Groups services are supplied into highly regulated markets, and this could restrict the operational flexibility of the business.
In order to mitigate this risk, the Group maintains an appropriate relationship with both Ofgem and Ofcom the UK regulators for the energy and communications markets respectively.
We engage with officials from both these organisations on a periodic basis to ensure they are aware of our views when they are consulting on proposed regulatory changes, or if there are competition issues we need to raise with them.
The Group is also exposed to European regulatory intervention, but there is little if anything we can do at a practical level to influence any such events.
However, it should be noted that the regulatory environment for the various markets in which we operate is generally focussed on promoting competition.
As one of the new entrants, it seems reasonable to expect that most such changes will benefit the Group, given our relatively small size compared to the former monopoly incumbents with whom we compete.
Fraud and Bad debt risk The Company has a universal supply obligation in relation to the provision of energy to domestic customers.
This means that although the Company is entitled to request a reasonable deposit from potential new customers who are not considered creditworthy, the Company is obliged to supply domestic energy to everyone who submits a properly completed application form.
Where customers subsequently fail to pay for the energy they have used Delinquent Customers, there is likely to be a considerable delay before the Company is able to eliminate its exposure to future bad debt from them by either installing a pre-payment meter or disconnecting their supply, and the costs associated with preventing such Delinquent Customers from increasing their indebtedness are not always fully recovered.
19 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Fraud within the telephony industry may arise from customers using the services without intending to pay their supplier.
The amounts involved are generally small as the Company has sophisticated call traffic monitoring systems to identify material occurrences of fraud.
The Company is able to immediately eliminate any further bad debt exposure by disconnecting any telephony service that demonstrates a suspicious usage profile, or falls into arrears on payments.
More generally, we are also exposed to credit card fraud, where customers use stolen cards to obtain credit eg.
on their CashBack card or goods eg.
Smart Phones from us: we are constantly refining our fraud protection systems to reduce our exposure to such activities.
Wholesale prices The Group does not own or operate any utility network infrastructure itself, choosing instead to purchase the capacity needed from third parties.
The advantage of this approach is that the Group is not exposed to either technological risk, capacity risk or the risk of obsolescence, as it can purchase the exact amount of each service required to meet its customers needs each month.
Whilst there is a theoretical risk that in some of the areas in which the Group operates it may be unable to secure access to the necessary infrastructure on commercially attractive terms, in practice the pricing of access to such infrastructure is either regulated as in the energy market or subject to significant competitive pressures as in telephony and broadband.
The profile of our customers, the significant quantities of each service they consume in aggregate, and our clearly differentiated route to market has historically proven attractive to potential partners, who compete increasingly aggressively in order to secure a share of our growing business.
The supply of energy, which accounts for an increasing proportion of sales each year, has different risks associated with it.
The wholesale price can be extremely volatile, and customer demand can be subject to considerable short term fluctuations depending on the weather.
The Company has a long-standing supply relationship with npower under which they assume the substantive risks and rewards of hedging and buying energy for our customers.
As described in last years annual report, the main supply agreement with npower was renewed on 24 May 2011 with npower additionally taking on the seasonal working capital obligation associated with supplying customers who use an annual budget plan to pay for their energy.
Competitive risk The Group operates in highly competitive markets and significant product innovations or increased price competition could impact future profit margins.
In order to maintain its competitive position, there is a constant focus on ways of improving operational efficiency and keeping the cost base as low as possible.
New product innovations are monitored closely by senior management and the Group is typically able to respond rapidly by offering any new services through the infrastructure of its existing suppliers.
The Company offers a unique multiservice proposition.
The increasing proportion of customers who are benefiting from a genuine multiservice proposition, that is unavailable from any other supplier, materially reduces any competitive threat.
Andrew Lindsay Chief Executive Officer 22 May 2012 20 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
