Directors report and business review Directors report and business review This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange SMWH members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The and is included in the FTSE 250 Index.
Moreinformation about the Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not business is available at www.
accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this Business objectives and strategies document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs most popular nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties stationer, bookseller and newsagent by continuing to grow its facing the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since Travel business and delivering its High Street strategic plan.
future events and circumstances can cause results and We aim to improve the Companys profitability and cash flow developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The generation, delivering sustainable returns to shareholders.
We forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information believe that a concentration on these factors will be reflected in a available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the total shareholder return that compares well with our peer group Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardof equivalent listed companies.
Since 2007 we will have returned looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be 1 over 450m of cash to shareholders as part of our long-term construed as a profit forecast.
strategy to create value for shareholders.
Principal activities We invest where we believe we will achieve a return on The Company, one of the UKs leading retail groups, is made up of investment above our cost of capital.
While external economic two core businesses Travel and High Street.
Travel sells a and other factors may affect us in the short-term, we believe tailored range of Newspapers, Magazines, Books and Impulse thatmost of the markets we are focused on will deliver products in airports, train stations, motorway service areas, sustainable returns.
hospitals and workplaces, primarily in the UK: and High Street Travel is focused on delivering value to shareholders through sells a wide selection of Stationery, Books, Newspapers, organic growth in its existing outlets, securing new contracts, Magazines and Impulse products and a small range of trialling new formats, increasing average transaction value and Entertainment products.
making improvements to trading efficiency.
WHSmiths outlets are frequently the first choice for people The High Street plan concentrates on building on our authority in buying our products on the high street and we are a trusted core categories, optimising margins, controlling costs and convenience retailer for customers at travel locations.
We have ensuring we deliver the retail basics.
High Street continues to an extensive and growing store portfolio operating from 619 make significant progress in the delivery of its plan, despite the Travel units including franchise units and 618 High Street stores, current economic climate.
with leading positions in Stationery, Books and Magazines.
Overall, WHSmith employs approximately 16,000 staff, primarily We aim to act responsibly towards all our stakeholders, including in the UK.
customers, suppliers, business partners, employees and the communities in which we operate.
Our annual Corporate WHSmith also reaches customers online 24 hours a day via Responsibility Report is available at www.
co. uk and its specialist personalised greetings with a summary of our approach on pages 19 and 20 of this cards and gift websites, www.
ie 1 Includes proposed final dividend of 18.6p and 50m share buyback announced on 23 August 2012.
WH Smith PLC 6 Annual report and accounts 2012
