co. uk Chairmans statement I am pleased to report another good set of results for Whitbread, with double-digit revenue and profit growth, as well as 15% growth in both EPS and dividends during the year.
We are focused on putting the customer at the heart of everything we do.
We continually develop our products and services while investing in our brands to build ever stronger consumer propositions, all the time keeping a tight control on costs.
This has enabled us to perform well in tough market conditions giving us the confidence to expand in line with our ambitious growth plans.
In a challenging hotel market, the increasing strength of the Premier Inn brand and our dynamic pricing system have ensured we continue to outperform competitors.
The sharper focus in our restaurants business delivered a turnaround in performance in the second half of the We are focused on year.
Costa remains one of the success stories of the UK high street with like for like sales growth of 5.5%, putting the customer at while some 22% of total system sales now come from its international businesses.
the heart of everything It has been a record year for expansion in our main we do.
We continually growth engines of Premier Inn and Costa.
We opened 4,430 new rooms 31 hotels, 12 restaurants, over 330 develop our products Costa stores around the world and now have 1,192 Costa Express machines.
This puts us well on track to achieve and services while the 2016 milestones we laid out last April.
Overseas, Costa continues to build presence in some 25 countries investing in our brands and in the year we celebrated our 100th store in China.
Premier Inn is developing a capital right strategy to to build ever stronger expand in the emerging budget hotel markets of the Middle East, India and Asia Pacific.
As we invest in growing our brands the focus is very much on delivering good returns that create substantial shareholder value.
To further this end, we are proposing to introduce a ROCE measure to our senior management long-term incentive plan for 2012 13.
