co. uk The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 1 March 2012.
Directors Certain information required for disclosure in this report is provided in other appropriate sections of the Annual report Report and Accounts.
These include the business review, the corporate governance and remuneration reports and the Group financial statements and notes to those financial statements and accordingly these are incorporated into the report by reference.
Principal activities and review of business The principal activities of the Group are the operation Number of Premier Inn rooms, restaurants of a hotels and restaurants business and a coffee shop and Costa stores in the UK and overseas business.
These operations are largely carried out in the UK, although Premier Inn operates one hotel in Ireland, two hotels in India, one hotel in Abu Dhabi and three International International International hotels in Dubai via a joint venture.
Costa operates coffee UK UK UK shops in 25 overseas markets through joint ventures or on a franchise basis, and wholly owns coffee shops in 90,000 90,000 90,000 Eastern Europe.
Details of the Groups activities, developments and performance for the year, the main trends and factors Premier Inn rooms costa stores likely to affect its future development and performance Premier Inn rooms and information required by the Companies Act 2006 Premier Inn Restaurants Costa are set out on pages 2 to 21.
Details of the Companys WINcard, containing the key performance indicators UK & Ireland UK UK can be found on pages 8, 10, 14, 16 and 17.
47,429 387 1,392 Results and dividends Overseas Overseas 1,296 811 Group profit before tax and 303.5million exceptional items Group profit before tax and 305.8million after exceptional items Geographical location of operations Interim dividend paid on 17.50p per share Europe 10 January 2012 Recommended final dividend 33.75p per share Russia Total dividend for the year 51.25p per share Latvia Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, Ireland UK the final dividend will be payable on 13 July 2012 to the Poland Ukraine shareholders on the register at the close of business on Czech Republic 18 May 2012.
Hungary Serbia Board of directors Bulgaria Montenegro The directors at the date of this report are listed on Portugal page 22.
All except Susan Hooper and Susan Taylor Greece Martin served throughout the year.
Susan Hooper joined Cyprus the Board on 1 September 2011 and Susan Taylor Martin joined on 1 January 2012.
Asia and the Middle East Details of the executive directors service contracts are given in the remuneration report on page 41.
None of the non-executive directors has a service contract.
Details of directors training are given in the corporate governance report on page 30.
China Syria Powers of directors Lebanon Jordan The business of the Company is managed by the Kuwait Egypt Bahrain directors who may exercise all the powers of the Qatar Saudi India UAE Company, subject to the Companys Articles of Arabia Oman Association, any relevant legislation and any directions given by the Company by passing a special resolution at a general meeting.
In particular, the directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, issue shares, appoint and remove directors and recommend and declare dividends.
