Business review Highlights Closing AuM of 187.2 billion 10% Net new business flat, but adds 70 million of new annualised revenue Regulatory capital target will be achieved by December 2012 2012 has been another successful year for Aberdeen.
We have delivered on our objectives and this is reflected in our KPIs.
Strong growth in revenues and operating profits was driven by good flows into our higher margin products.
Cashflow was strong, bringing us close to our regulatory capital target.
process have continued to deliver through variable market AuM increased to 187.2 billion and with robust conditions.
investment performance, we will enter 2013 in The major element of these inflows was into our equity excellent shape.
products, particularly global emerging market GEM, global Objectives and Asia Pacific equities.
We have also seen healthy interest Our objective remains to deliver long-term shareholder in emerging market debt EMD and Asian fixed income, both value by pursuing a strategy that involves organic growth higher margin fixed income strategies.
supplemented, at appropriate times in the business cycle, by The growth of AuM in equities has been offset by continued selective acquisitions.
A fundamental element is to maintain losses in fixed income and solutions such that equities complete focus on attaining the highest levels of investment now account for over 50% of the Group's AuM.
Whilst the management performance and client service.
strong demand is clearly an endorsement of the integrity of the franchise built over the years, we are not prepared to We aim to deliver shareholder value by growing the recurring compromise the quality of the portfolios by diversifying into revenues generated from AuM, adding profitable new business stocks of lesser quality.
We have therefore taken action to and maintaining an efficient cost base - thus generating moderate inflows to GEM and global equities.
To do otherwise sustainable profits and cash flows.
would not be in the best interests of existing clients.
We believe that there is continued scope for AuM growth from these The quality of net new business flows is the key driver of the products, but not as significant as we have seen in recent years.
growth in revenues and profits.
Above all, the strong flows from our equities products that have been key to our strong financial We have a number of other capabilities where we have a performance.
strong track record and good performance.
Our focus is now to support these and, with increasing distribution effort and Our balance sheet and cash position are significantly stronger.
marketing promotion, to broaden the range of growth products.
We were close to achieving our regulatory capital target by the These include European equities, regional emerging market year end but can affirm our earlier statements that we will be equities, EMD, Asian fixed income, property multi manager, able to eliminate reliance on the consolidation waiver by 31 multi asset and fund of hedge funds.
The asset class review December 2012. section explains some of the steps that we have taken in the year.
AuM Our closing AuM is 187.2 billion, 10% higher than September Notwithstanding the successful growth of EMD, the scale of 2011.
This change is analysed in the table opposite.
losses in fixed income and solutions is disappointing, albeit there are different reasons behind the losses.
We have put Gross new business inflows for the period were 36.0 billion structure across a number of solutions products as we build 2011: 43.0 billion.
Outflows were 36.0 billion 2011: 44.7 the foundations for future growth and believe that we have billion, resulting in neutral net flows 2011: net outflow attractive products with strong performance.
steps in 2012 to improve the fixed income investment process 16.5 billion of AuM growth is from markets, foreign exchange in order to re-establish credibility in products such as global movements and performance.
Our investment performance macro and credit.
remains good and our investment philosophy and disciplined 22 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Investment team review Equities Fixed income Our core equities teams have continued to perform robustly.
We continued to see a disappointing level of fixed income Overall, we had 10.2 billion of net inflows, mainly from GEM, outflows over the course of the year, with net outflows of 5.7 global and Asia Pacific equities.
As of September 2012, total billion 2011: 4.8 billion.
The largest portion of these outflows funds managed by the equities teams stood at 100.7 billion.
came from our UK and global products, where we lost 5.0 We have a leading franchise in these equity products.
EMD is a key source of AuM growth, with net inflows of Our investment performance is strong not only in GEM, 0.9 billion.
We also saw smaller net inflows into areas such Asia and global, but also in European, Japanese and regional as our high yield product suite European, US and Global.
emerging market products, including Latin America.
We look Consistent with our distribution strategy, we view global for solid stock selection and believe that there remain good product opportunities in emerging markets, high yield, Asia and companies with balance sheet strength, good cash generation convertibles to be among our most compelling, enabling us to and excellent management teams that respect good long-term grow both AuM and management fees in the years to come.
investments, even with the uncertain economic backdrop.
We have taken steps over the course of the year to build a One landmark is the continued strong performance by the stronger fixed income business.
Earlier in the year we identified European desk, which has now built up a very respectable our EMD, Asia Pacific macro and US credit teams as areas of five year track record.
We believe that we are well placed to excellence that could be used to help reorganise our fixed market these strategies, though of course there still remains a income franchise.
Drawing upon the example of our strong reluctance amongst the international investing community to equity business, we decided to use these areas of best practice to commit capital to Europe given the ongoing macroeconomic support the creation of a common investment process, based on concerns.
strong research and risk skillsets that will support robust portfolio There were solid inflows into existing pooled funds.
We have a construction across the Group.
We are also now organised to number of closed end funds consistently trading at a premium better allow our global teams to tap more effectively into the to their net asset value.
This enabled Murray International success of many of the regional fixed income teams.
investment trust, for example, to issue a further 100 million of Over the short term, the changes we have implemented have new equity.
created some uncertainty among clients and asset consultants: however we are confident that these re-established foundations The global equity team will celebrate managing money for ten will support our business and clients well in the future.
years with the same people and same process in December this year.
The track record built on stability and continuity is a Notwithstanding, our performance has been strong in many source of great pride to all involved.
Both European and US teams have seen a sharp improvement to their performance numbers, bringing them back alongside Australia in delivering a strong longterm track record.
Our Asian fixed income team is one of the strongest among our peers.
com 23 INvESTMENT TEAM REvIEW CONTINUED Property Aberdeen solutions The past year has seen more investors developing a global We have spent much of the period putting structure in place in approach to their property investment activities.
The respect of products and staff to enable us to present coherent repercussions of the financial crisis mean that they are typically and competitive products.
risk averse, focusing on prime assets with strong, secure income In terms of fund flows some 3.2 billion exited, leaving total streams, in western Europe, North America and the most AuM of 23.6 billion.
The outflows reflect the continued advanced markets in the Asia Pacific region.
transition following the acquisition of the multi manager and We have strengthened our global property platform with fund of alternatives teams from Coutts.
In revenue terms, some expanded multi manager teams in Asia and the US, and have of these declines were cushioned by performance fees from the added specialist distribution capabilities in both regions.
Work has been done to streamline Aberdeens international Fund of hedge fund performance has held up well, while longproperty fund range, with some products merged or closed term relative performance in long only multi manager assets is to new investors, and terms reviewed to ensure they are also sound.
Aberdeen was named as the 'Best Overall Group' at competitive and aligned with current best practice.
The phased the 2012 European Fund of Hedge Fund Awards reflecting our liquidation process for the German open ended funds inherited past performance and our efforts to broaden our capability.
We from DEGI is proceeding according to plan, with asset sales have updated a number of fund structures to make them more across Europe and in Canada.
The opportunity has been taken to roll out improvements to It was a very busy year for our multi asset team.
At the the investment process across the property business, with a beginning of the reporting period we launched the Aberdeen strengthened focus on risk budgeting.
Europe, Germany and Diversified Growth Fund, specifically aimed at UK defined the Nordic region have proved more resilient than most, and contribution pension schemes.
This fund seeks to differentiate this was reflected in the successful launch of new residential itself from other products in the market by emphasising property funds for institutional investors in both Sweden and investment in the developing world, an area where we believe Germany.
In Norway, investors have voted to extend the life we have a world class franchise.
These types of vehicles aim to of the 800 million Norway I property fund.
New segregated smooth the volatility of returns whilst still achieving reasonable mandates include construction of a 150 million pan-European growth in capital, and are increasingly being used by pension direct property, and a European multi manager account for a US schemes as part of the default option for members.
advent of auto-enrolment in the UK, fund flows into these products are expected to gather pace.
Complementing this, we have undertaken a review of the multi asset fund range that we offer globally and have restructured some existing vehicles to align the type of fund that is available across different geographical jurisdictions.
These can be broadly Net sales by asset class, bn categorised as income oriented or focused on controlling 15 portfolio volatility.
Where there have been gaps, for example 10 in Europe, we have launched additional products.
Performance continues to be the key focus of our multi asset team.
The team 5 won an award at the Investment Week Fund Manager of the Year Awards in July, for their flagship product the Aberdeen 0 multi asset fund.
-5 -10 -15 Aberdeen Equities Fixed Money Property Solutions income market 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 24 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Regional review The regional review covers the progress and trends for We raised total commitments of US$460 million from EMEA our distribution teams in our main markets.
It is of prime clients for the Asia III property fund of funds.
Also, on the direct importance to us that all of our teams deliver to the highest property front, we have successfully launched new residential client service standards and that we maintain and grow a funds in Germany and Sweden.
product range that meets client needs and market demand.
There were net outflows of 3.8 billion in the region.
This was We have made strides in a number of these markets and largely due to the loss of a small number of large global and UK focused spend on brand is paying off.
These markets include the fixed income mandates, as well as outflows from multi manager US, Benelux, Germany, the Nordics and Taiwan, where we are and fund of hedge fund products.
We discussed the background making progress through the wholesale distribution channel, to this in the asset class review.
building on our existing strength with institutional clients to There have been major successes in the growth of our wholesale strengthen our business model.
business in continental Europe and the Nordics - where we 6.3 billion of net flows were into higher margin pooled funds, raised 2.8 billion of net assets.
Whilst retail markets across the with 6.3 billion of net flows out of segregated mandates.
region have generally been contracting, the investment in our There has been net flows in pooled funds for each of the last brand in targeted markets, along with focus on our relationships five years.
The AuM for our flagship Aberdeen global fund range, with the key players at the wealth managers and private banks which is distributed globally, has increased from 27.3 billion to in the 'wholesale' market is paying off.
Success has not just been 34.9 billion.
in our equities offerings - we have had very strong demand for EMD from Dutch pension clients and German intermediaries.
EMEA We held our second successful year as the main sponsor of EMEA continues to be our largest region for winning new Cowes Week, and increased our visibility via sponsorship of ITv business.
We won almost 22 billion of gross new business weather and hosting some of the Team GB Olympics sailing 2011: 27 billion.
We also announced our sponsorship of the Scottish Open We have capitalised on our local presence across the region for an initial three years, as we continue efforts to broaden our and diversified offerings, further strengthened by additional brand recognition.
resource and new fund launches.
Towards the end of the year, we launched the dynamic multi asset fund, aimed at demand from our Benelux clients and an emerging market debt fund of funds.
We have seen very strong initial interest in both.
Gross sales by region, bn AUM by region 35 30 25 UK % 20 Europe ex UK % Middle East and Africa % 15 Americas % 10 Asia Pacic % 5 0 Americas Asia Pacic EMEA 2009 2010 2011 2012 Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC www.
com 25 REGIONAL REvIEW CONTINUED Asia Pacific Americas We won significant new institutional accounts this year, as The past year has followed through on several initiatives well as a number of new closed end mandates managed in the established during the 2011 financial year, resulting in a region, such as the Greater China Fund Inc. and The India Fund, broadened distribution presence as well as enhancements to Inc.. On the other hand, retail distribution in the region has been our local fund management capability.
difficult with Taiwan the bright spot.
In the United States the wholesale distribution team now has In Japan we continued to attract funds through our relationship a local presence in each of the largest metropolitan centres with Mitsubishi, albeit at a slower rate than before, but we across the country.
We opened a New York office in October are hopeful now of gaining pension fund support for our to support various distribution functions as well as to serve Japan equity product, which is performing exceptionally well.
as a flagship location for client activity and business growth.
However, the retail side saw a steady exodus as investors The addition of an emerging market debt analyst in Brazil flocked to high income products provided by competitors.
underscores Aberdeens commitment to the region, both for investment research and, looking forward, as a growing market Distribution trends in Australia, the region's other most selffor distribution.
contained market, was the mirror opposite: our institutional business faced withdrawals as the superannuation industry We have growing AuM from Latin American clients investing seeks to restructure under bigger groups and bring mandates in our flagship Luxembourg fund range and have targeted in house an A$230 million account from a specialist multi relationships with private banks that we believe will lead to manager was a coup whereas retail flows, at more attractive further growth.
These expanded product sales and support teams have helped Taiwan was our stand-out retail market.
We raised around 150 to grow investments from North and South American clients million in new assets.
In March, we won eight Morningstar investing globally to 31 billion, up from 27 billion last Smart awards for performance, a record for any fund house.
A significant portion of these asset increases have come With an expanded sales team and a new office pending in from the continued performance of our global equities and Kaoshiung, the islands second largest city, we are gaining vital emerging market strategies, through interest in EMD, while our purchase with key distributors too.
Asian bond and equity strategies were encouraging as well.
In addition, we have reorganised the multi asset product range to Sales to private banks, which follow a Singapore-Hong Kong focus on broad client objectives and align offering to our global axis, also improved thanks to more engagement with the multi asset business.
Furthermore, feeder vehicles were created leading banks.
They have a wider appetite than for just Asian to provide access to two of our fund of hedge funds for U. S. GEM equities and are a valuable test-case for cross-selling clients.
other capabilities, including but not limited to, multi asset and solutions-based products.
These developments were augmented by an ongoing marketing effort to increase brand awareness both through sponsorships Last, we put a full-time sales presence in Korea, and accordingly of local and regional events, and hosting high quality expect to see more activity there, starting with global property.
investment conferences for our client base.
Currently the largest such event remains the Aberdeen Dad vail Regatta in Philadelphia, the largest inter-collegiate rowing regatta in North America, now entering its fourth year of Aberdeen sponsorship and 75th year of existence.
These events in conjunction with digital and print marketing campaigns were aimed to ensure that the Aberdeen brand continues to grow in the Americas in 2013.
26 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial review Income statement 2012 2011 Change Net revenue 869.2m 784.0m 11% Underlying operating profit 352.7m 309.3m 14% Underlying profit before tax 347.8m 301.9m 15% Statutory profit before tax 269.7m 224.1m 20% Post-tax return on average equity 22.5% 20.0% 2.5% Underlying diluted EPS 22.6p 18.7p 21% Statutory diluted EPS 17.6p 14.1p 25% Dividend per share 11.5p 9.0p 28% Balance sheet and cash flow Core operating cash flow 419.8m 399.3m 5% Net cash 266.4m 127.5m 109% The Board considers that the Groups results are most Results meaningfully considered on a basis which excludes the effects Net revenue for the year increased by 11% to 869.2 million, of amortisation and impairment of intangible assets because while operating expenses grew by 9% to 516.5 million.
After this shows the revenues and costs which drive the Groups net finance costs of 5.1 million, underlying profit before tax recurring cashflow.
We refer to this as the underlying results and of 347.8 million is 15% higher than in 2011.
With strong the Group income statement on page 73 has been presented in cashflow generation, we have strengthened the balance sheet a manner which enables this distinction.
The Boards monitoring and closing net cash is 266.4 million - 109% higher than of the Groups performance and its key performance indicators, last year.
as set out on pages 20 and 21, are founded on the underlying Net revenue results.
As in previous years, this financial review focuses on the 2012 2011 underlying figures.
m m The Group income statement discloses gross revenue, less Management fees 813.5 739.2 commissions payable to arrive at net revenue.
Commissions are Performance fees 47.5 36.3 paid to intermediaries such as banks, platforms and advisors who distribute our products.
Management reviews financial Transaction fees 8.2 8.5 information net of such commissions as it gives a fairer basis to 869.2 784.0 compare revenues, regardless of the channel in which products are sold.
The major element of the growth in net revenue was from recurring management fees which, at 94% of net revenues Operating margin is calculated as operating profit before 2011: 94%, continue to provide a high quality base on which amortisation and impairment of intangibles as a percentage of to build.
We calculate post tax return on average equity by dividing statutory profit before tax by the average of opening Performance fees grew by 11.2 million to 47.5 million.
However they still account for only around 5% of total net revenues.
com 27 FINANCIAL REvIEW CONTINUED Revenue margins Third party administration costs cover the outsourcing of back Revenue margins have benefited from growth in AuM of office and certain mid office functions.
The change in AuM mix, equities, our highest margin asset class, and the trends in favouring pooled funds, has helped reduce these costs as a product mix discussed above.
The average management fee margin for the year was 45.1bps Net finance costs 2011: 41.2bps, as summarised in the following table: The main elements of net finance costs are interest paid on debt issued by the Group and on bank borrowings drawn from time 2012 2011 to time, less interest earned on cash balances.
Net finance costs bps bps have decreased from 7.7 million in 2011 to 5.1 million this year, reflecting the repayment of the subordinated debt in July Equities 62.6 60.7 2011, and the build up of cash balances.
Fixed income 24.9 23.4 Tax Money market 11.1 12.7 The effective tax rate, defined as the tax charge divided by Solutions 18.0 16.1 underlying profit before taxation, was 18.0% in 2012 Property 54.5 49.9 2011: 19.9%.
Average 45.1 41.2 While the UK is the country in which we pay the highest amount of taxes - the UK corporation tax rate has reduced We show money market as a separate component from fixed to 25% 2011: 27% - the overall rate is a blend of the rates income as flows can be highly sensitive to investor risk appetite which apply in all of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
The and movements can distort the margins earned on the wider effective rate benefits from the fact that a significant element fixed income assets.
of the Groups profit is earned in Asia where tax rates generally Performance fee income added a further 3.0bps 2011: 2.5bps, are lower than the UK corporation tax rate.
so that the overall revenue margin for the year increased to Earnings per share 48.1bps 2011: 43.7bps.
As discussed above, the Board believes that the most Operating expenses appropriate measure of the Groups profitability is the underlying diluted EPS number, which excludes from its 2012 2011 calculation the amortisation and impairment charges on m m intangible assets.
On this measure the Groups underlying Staff costs 301.5 273.7 diluted EPS has increased by 21% to 22.6p per share.
Non staff costs 215.0 201.0 Dividends 516.5 474.7 The Group has used the cash generated from the business to Operating expenses have grown by 41.8 million 9%.
costs increased by 10%, with non-staff costs growing by 7%.
An interim dividend of 4.4p per share was paid to ordinary As expected, we increased spend in marketing, where we shareholders in June 2012 and the Board is recommending continue to build market awareness of our brand across our payment of a final dividend of 7.1p per share, resulting in a global markets, and added to our distribution team, where total payment for 2012 of 11.5p, a 28% increase on 2011. we have recruited product specialists as well as expanded our This dividend is covered approximately 2.0 times by diluted wholesale team in key markets.
This is important to ensure that underlying earnings per share and is covered 1.5 times by we are able to continue revenue growth across our range of diluted earnings per share, reported on a statutory basis.
Our compensation ratio, being total staff costs divided by net revenue, of 34.7% 2011: 34.9% remains competitive within our peer group.
28 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Cashflow Capital and liquidity The year to 30 September 2012 has seen strong cashflow, The Group aims to have a strong balance sheet with low with operating profit of 352.7 million converted into 419.8 gearing.
Net cash has increased from 127.5 million to 266.4 million of core operating cash flow, a conversion rate of 119% million.
We spent 83.1 million buying shares in the market 2011: 129%.
The 2011 conversion rate was higher than to satisfy outstanding deferred share awards.
This negates normal due to some higher non cash expenses in the year, but potential EPS dilution from the vesting of deferred awards.
we expect cash conversion to be between 110% and 115% The Group currently operates under a waiver from the going forward.
consolidated supervision rules of the Capital Requirements The core operating cash flow excludes the effect of short term Directive.
The waiver was granted by the FSA with effect from timing differences on settlement of open end fund transactions January 2007 and continues until August 2014.
However, we which are generally settled within four working days and any expect to have sufficient capital headroom to eliminate reliance acquisition related expenses, including deferred consideration.
on the waiver by the end of 2012.
The Groups cashflow performance over the last two years is set Subsequent to the year end we announced our intention to out in the following table.
redeem all of the 3.5% convertible bonds 2014 which remain outstanding on 3 January 2013.
However, bondholders are still An element of free cashflow has been used mainly to purchase able to exercise their conversion rights until December 2012, shares for the employee benefit trust EBT to satisfy future and many have already done so.
Our net cash, balance sheet share awards.
The Group has the ability to issue new shares, but and regulatory capital, have strengthened further as a result.
chooses to purchase shares to avoid shareholder dilution.
Cash flow performance 2012 2011 m m Core cash flow from operating activities 419.8 399.3 Short term timing differences on open end fund settlements 5.3 7.9 Operating cash flow before interest and tax 414.5 407.2 Interest and tax paid 45.7 33.5 Cash flow from operating activities after interest and tax 368.8 373.7 Maintenance capital expenditure 7.6 5.9 Dividends and coupons paid 126.0 105.5 Recurring free cash flow 235.2 262.3 Exceptional costs 7.3 Acquisitions and disposals 13.4 5.7 Purchase of investments 1.4 11.9 Debt repaid 77.9 Purchase of own shares 83.1 98.1 Exchange fluctuations 1.1 2.7 Movement in cash and cash equivalents 138.4 58.7 www.
com 29 FINANCIAL REvIEW CONTINUED Financial position Total equity increased by 66.0 million to 1,300.5 million at 30 September 2012.
The main components of this increase were as follows: Changes in equity m Profit for the year 223.6 Net income recognised directly in other comprehensive income 8.1 Issue of equity 0.1 Coupon paid on perpetual capital securities 14.9 Conversion of convertible bonds 3.0 Ordinary dividends paid 106.2 Movement in non-controlling interest 2.2 Release from reserves to match charge for share-based payments in Income Statement 53.8 Purchase of own shares 83.1 Increase in total equity 66.0 Coupon on 7.9% perpetual subordinated capital securities Pension deficits The coupon payable on these equity securities, which were The net deficit on the Groups legacy defined benefit pension issued in 2007 to introduce additional flexibility to the capital schemes has decreased to 15.4 million at 30 September structure, is fully deductible for UK tax purposes, so that the 2012, compared to a net deficit of 24.3 million at the previous post-tax cost is approximately 5.9% pa.
This is considerably less year end.
Assets held by the schemes have increased by 10.3 than the cost of ordinary share capital, currently estimated at million from a combination of improvements in markets and around 10.2% pa. increased employer contributions.
In estimating the liabilities, we are required by IAS 19 to use a Balance sheet discount rate calculated by reference to the yield on AA-rated Sep 2012 Sep 2011 corporate bonds.
The discount rate used this year is 4.6% m m compared to 5.1% in 2011.
Net cash 266.4 127.5 While the lower discount rate led to an increase in the schemes' Other net tangible assets 75.4 91.4 liabilities, the increase in the schemes' assets, from investment performance and the Group's ongoing contributions, has Intangible assets net of deferred enabled a reduction in the net deficit.
tax 958.7 1,015.6 Total net assets 1,300.5 1,234.5 Shareholders' funds 1,088.4 1,020.2 Minority interests 14.0 16.2 Perpetual capital securities 198.1 198.1 Total equity 1,300.5 1,234.5 30 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
