Directors R eport The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together FILS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND with the audited financial statements of the Company for the year PROCESS ended 31 March 2012.
The Board has appointed FIL as Investment Managers.
The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on FILs distinctive investment approach is bottom up stock 22 January 2010 under the registered number 7133583 and picking investing in companies on the basis of their underlying re-registered as a public limited company on 24 February 2010. strengths, facilitated by extensive research capabilities.
STATUS FIL has had a presence in Asia since 1969 and now has offices The Company carries on business as an investment company in seven countries across the region, including in three cities in and has been granted approval as such by HM Revenue & mainland China and in Hong Kong.
Customs under Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the accounting period to 31 March 2011.
The Directors are of the The Hong Kong office is FILs second largest in the region, with opinion that the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner approximately 40 investment professionals, including analysts which will satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an and portfolio managers.
Globally, FIL has over 7,000 investment investment company under that Section.
The Company is not a close company and has no employees.
The analysts in the Hong Kong investment team evaluate The Company is authorised to carry on business as an investment companies, meet their managements and interpret the effects company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 of international and local events.
They contact hundreds of and operates as such.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Given the Companys objective and strategy, the Board has INTRODUCTION identified the following KPIs against which performance can be The Company is required to present a Business Review, which measured.
provides a fair review of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties faced and includes an analysis of the performance For the year ended to 31 March 2012 of the Company, both during the financial year and the position Net Asset Value total return -18.5% at the year end, taking into account its objective, strategy and risks and how these are measured using Key Performance Share price total return -26.4 % Indicators.
MSCI China Index total return -12.
5% OBJECTIVE & STRATEGY As at 31 March 2012 The primary objective of the Company is to enhance shareholder value, through long-term capital growth.
The Company aims to Discount to Net Asset Value 4.6% achieve this with an actively managed portfolio of investments made up primarily of securities issued by companies listed PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND RISK MANAGEMENT in China or Hong Kong and China related companies listed The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for elsewhere.
As part of the strategy the Board has delegated identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the management of the investment portfolio and certain other the Company.
The Board, with the assistance of the Managers, services to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and has developed a risk matrix which, as part of the internal FIL Investments International.
The Investment Managers aim to controls process, identifies the key risks that the Company faces.
achieve a capital return on the Companys total assets over the The matrix has identified strategic, marketing and business longer term in excess of the equivalent return on the MSCI China development, investment management, company secretarial, fund Index, as expressed in UK sterling.
administration and operations and support function risks.
These risks are identified and graded.
The Board reviews and agrees ACTIVITY policies for managing these risks.
This process, together with the The Companys activity is to pursue the above objective through policies and procedures for the mitigation of risks, is updated and operating as an investment company.
A review of the years reviewed regularly in the form of comprehensive internal controls activities and an indication of likely future developments and the reports considered by the Audit Committee in accordance with factors likely to affect this are given in the Chairmans Statement the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors.
The on pages 3 and 4 and in the Managers Report on pages 5 to 9.
Board also determines the nature and extent of any risks it is The Board supports these views.
willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 19 Directors R eport The Board considers the following as the major specific risks facing the Company: Top Risks Risk Mitigation Political and legislative change in China.
The Board reviews material economic, market and legislative changes at each Board Emerging market risk in China.
An Investment Review report is also produced at each meeting to assess the Companys portfolio performance.
Loss of reputation in the market place.
Reputational risks are often the consequence of risk events in another category, such as investment performance, corporate governance rules or regulatory issues.
The Board performs reviews of such risks on a periodic basis.
Poor management of assets or long-term The Company has a clearly defined strategy and investment remit.
reviewed at each Board meeting, including performance attribution and income forecasts.
There is a clearly defined management agreement, and borrowing derivative limits are also set by the Board.
The portfolio is managed by a highly experienced Portfolio Manager.
FILs Asia Pacific Investment Management team supports the Portfolio Manager, and FILs Asia Pacific Chief Investment Officer and the Board review performance regularly.
The Portfolio Manager has committed to manage the portfolio until at least 2014.
Succession plans will be developed at an appropriate time and in the interim there is an experienced Asia Pacific Investment team in place supporting the Portfolio Manager.
Investment Research fraud poor Losses were incurred in 2011 with respect to US reverse merger stock frauds.
Manager has increased the use and number of external research providers and due diligence firms in order to improve oversight controls and to help mitigate further losses of this nature.
There are a number of prospective regulations which could impact the Company, although in most cases the legislation is still being finalised.
Of greatest significance is the Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive.
The processes the Company uses to manage regulatory change initiatives continue to operate effectively.
Further risks identified within the risk matrix are: risks, risks relating to accounting practices, disclosure and settlement, a greater risk of market shut down, standards of EXTERNAL RISKS corporate governance and more governmental limitations on Market risk foreign investment than are typically found in developed markets.
The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities in China and Hong Kong and the principal risks are therefore market Share price risk related such as market recessions, interest rate movements, The Board is not able to control the prices at which the deflation inflation, terrorism and protectionism.
Risks to which Companys Ordinary Shares trade: they may not reflect the value the Company is exposed and which form part of the market risks of the underlying investments.
However, it can have an influence category are included in Note 18 to the Financial Statements in the market by maintaining the profile of the Company through an active marketing campaign and, under certain circumstances, on pages 47 to 53 together with summaries of the policies through repurchasing or issuing shares.
These comprise: market price risk including other price risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency Investment management risk risk : liquidity risk: counterparty risk: credit risk : and derivative The Board relies on the Portfolio Managers skills and judgement instruments risk.
to make investment decisions based on research and analysis of On 17 February 2012, the Company entered into a revolving individual stocks and sectors.
The Board reviews the performance facility agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC the Lender of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark and that of for US$150,000,000 and this has been fully drawn down.
its competitors and the outlook for the market with the Portfolio On 21 February 2012 the Company repaid the outstanding Manager at each Board meeting.
The emphasis is on long-term US$100,000,000 under the revolving facility with JP Morgan Chase investment performance and the Board accepts that by targeting Bank.
long-term results the Company risks volatility in the shorter term.
Risks related to the PRC Currency risk Investing in an emerging market such as the PRC subjects the The functional currency of the Company in which it reports its Company to a higher level of market risk than investment in a results, is UK sterling, however, most of its assets and its income more developed market.
This is due, among other things, to the are denominated in other currencies, mainly Hong Kong dollars existence of greater market volatility, lower trading volumes, the and US dollars.
Consequently, it is subject to currency risk on risk of political and economic instability, legal and regulatory Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 20
