Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together takes the view that long term returns can be enhanced by the use of gearing.
with the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Company was incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company on 16 August INVESTMENT POLICY 1991 under the name of Legistshelfco No.
112 PLC with the The Company invests principally in continental European registered number 2638812.
The name was changed to Fidelity securities with a view to achieving long term capital growth for European Values PLC in September 1991. shareholders.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in BUSINESS AND STATUS individual situations.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to The Company carries on business as an investment trust and individual countries and industry sectors is monitored, the has been granted approval as such by HM Revenue & Customs portfolio is not structured primarily on a country or industrial under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. weightings basis, although certain investment restrictions apply The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has in an attempt to diversify risk.
conducted its aairs in a manner which will satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an investment trust under that Act.
A minimum of 80% of gross assets will be invested in companies from countries which are included in the Benchmark Index The Company is registered as an investment company under the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index and a maximum of 5% of gross assets may be invested in companies of non-European Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
It is not a close company and has no employees.
countries which have some European exposure or connection.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be invested in the aggregate of: a securities not listed on a BUSINESS REVIEW recognised stock exchange: and b holdings in which the interest INTRODUCTION of the Company amounts to 20% or more of the equity capital of This section of the Directors Report provides a review of the any listed company.
Companys business and describes the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
An analysis of the performance of the The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets in Company during the financial year and the position at the year any one quoted company at the time of acquisition.
A maximum end is included taking into account its objective, strategy and of 5% of the Companys gross assets may be held in unquoted risks and how these are measured using Key Performance securities in aggregate at any one time.
The Companys normal policy is to be geared in the belief that OBJECTIVE, STRATEGY AND PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY long term investment returns will exceed the costs of gearing.
The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth This gearing will be obtained through the use of borrowing and or through the use of Contracts for Dierence CFDs to obtain from the stockmarkets of continental Europe.
The Company aims to achieve this with an actively managed portfolio of investments, exposure to securities selected by the Manager.
The eect of consisting primarily of continental European securities.
As part of gearing is to magnify the consequence of market movements on this strategy the Board has delegated the management of the the portfolio and if the portfolio value rises the NAV will be portfolio and other services.
The principal activity is to pursue the positively impacted, but if it falls the NAV will be adversely objective through operating as an investment trust company.
The Board is responsible for the level of gearing in the objective, strategy and principal activity have remained Company and reviews the position on a regular basis.
unchanged throughout the year ended 31 December 2012.
The aggregate exposure of the Company to equities, as a The Board has reviewed the summary of the years activities and result of borrowing or under CFDs, will not exceed 130% of the is in agreement with the indications of likely future developments total net assets at the time at which any CFD is entered into and the factors likely to aect these which are given in the or a security acquired.
It should be stressed that the majority of Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4 and in the Managers the Companys exposure to equities will be through direct investment, not CFDs.
In addition, the limits on exposure to Review on pages 5 and 6. individual companies and groups will be calculated on the basis The Board believes that individuals and institutions choose to that the Company has acquired the securities to which any CFD invest in the Company because the stock selection approach is providing exposure.
adopted by the Portfolio Manager is considered to be well suited to achieving its objective.
Although income has been The maximum amount of cash or cash equivalents held by the received by way of dividend payments the emphasis is placed Company will be 25% of the Companys total net assets, but on capital growth.
The Board recognises that investing in equities this limit will not include any cash or cash equivalent paid as is a long term process and that the Companys returns to collateral for unrealised losses on CFDs.
In practice the cash shareholders will vary from year to year.
Unlike equivalent position will normally be much lower.
open-ended investment vehicles, the investment trust structure oers investors a portfolio which may be geared.
The Board Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 15 Directors Report The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets of up to KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the 10% of the Companys total net assets.
The Board also reserves the right to hedge the portfolio by way of currency.
progress and performance of the Company over time and which are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be set out below.
invested in the securities of other investment companies including listed investment trusts.
Year ended Three years 31 December ended The Full Portfolio Listing as at 31 December 2012 is detailed on 31 December pages 53 and 54.
2012 2011 2012 % % % FIDELITYS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY, STYLE 1,2 NAV 24.7 -11.5 18.3 AND PROCESS The Portfolio Managers key focus is on identifying attractively- 2 Share price 31.3 -8.6 18.5 valued companies which exhibit good long term structural growth prospects.
The Portfolio Manager prefers companies that FTSE World Europe ex 2,3 he believes can grow their dividend over the next three to five UK Index 17.8 -14.7 5.6 years, as evidence suggests that such companies outperform Discount to NAV 9.9 14.2 n a over the long term.
Gearing percentage 11.1 8.6 n a In order to identify these companies, the Portfolio Manager looks 1 Ongoing charges 0.98 0.94 n a for the following main characteristics: 1 Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines t QPTJUJWF GVOEBNFOUBMT TUSVDUVSBM HSPXUI QSPTQFDUT B QSPWFO 2 Calculated on a total return basis 3 business model : Data prior to the year ended 31 December 2011 is on a net of tax basis t UIF BCJMJUZ UP HFOFSBUF DBTI Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns t B TUSPOH CBMBODF TIFFU BOE t BO BUUSBDUJWF WBMVBUJPO The Summary of Performance graphs on pages 11 and 12 The Portfolio Manager draws upon the substantial intelligence indicate the relative historical performance of the Company uncovered by Fidelitys team of pan-European analysts when against its Benchmark Index since launch and the discount or researching stocks.
A great deal of importance is placed on premium to NAV over that period.
Some of the Companys KPIs attending company meetings.
are considered to be beyond the Boards control, however they are measures of the Companys absolute and relative Being a bottom up stock picker, the Portfolio Manager aims to performance and the Board monitors them regularly.
Indices and generate outperformance through company selection, on a three ratios which assist in managing performance and compliance to five year investment horizon, rather than through sector or are also reviewed, including the ongoing charges.
considered regularly at Board meetings and this enables the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and consider any CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT expenditure outside that of its normal operations.
The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, take an active interest in the aairs of the companies in which it In addition to the KPIs set out above the Board regularly reviews invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general the Companys performance against its peer group of investment meetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial issues trusts.
The principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 17 which are then referred to the Board it delegates the and 18 includes descriptions of other performance indicators, responsibility for corporate activism and shareholder voting to their monitoring and management which are key to the business Fidelity.
These activities are reviewed annually.
Long term performance is also monitored and the Summary of Performance graphs on pages 11 and 12 show PREMIUM DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT: ENHANCING this information.
SHAREHOLDER VALUE The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year to issue new shares at a premium or repurchase shares for cancellation at a discount to the NAV.
It will only use these authorities to enhance the net asset value and to protect or improve the premium discount rating of the shares.
Details of share repurchases may be found on page 19 and the Chairmans Statement provides further information on page 3.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 16 Directors Report ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS the crisis returns, this could have an adverse impact on asset values and a very severe event in the Eurozone could lead to The attribution analysis table below enables contributions from various sources of income and costs to be determined.
disruption to markets and operational challenges for market participants.
The Managers businesses in Europe and Asia have Analysis of change in NAV during the year pence per share been considering the consequences of dierent Eurozone scenarios for some time, and have developed contingency plans Starting NAV 1 January 2012 1,168.57 to prepare for a range of possible outcomes.
Impact of: Performance Risk Index 249.38 The achievement of the Companys performance objective Stock selection 63.18 relative to the market requires the application of risk.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection might lead to Exchange rate -41.15 underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
Management of Gearing 25.20 the risks set out above is carried out by the Board which, at each Board meeting, considers the asset allocation of the Share repurchases 6.04 portfolio and the risk associated with particular countries and industry sectors within the parameters of the investment Charges -16.36 objective.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for actively Dividend paid -26.50 monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with the asset allocation parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks Cash and residual 0.61 meet an acceptable risk reward prole.
Closing NAV 31 December 2012 1,428.97 Income Dividend Risk Sources: Fidelity and Datastream The Companys objective is capital growth and, as explained in Past performance is not a guide to future returns the Chairmans Statement on page 3, the Portfolio Manager is PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES not constrained in any way to determine the level of income.
The The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for Board monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed income identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by reports and forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Share Price Risk The price of the Companys shares as well as its discount to NAV, Control: Revised Guidance for Directors.
are factors which are not within the Companys total control.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal Some short term inuence over the discount may be exercised by the use of share repurchases at acceptable prices.
Details control and for reviewing its eectiveness.
An internal controls report providing an assessment of risks, together with controls to of repurchases during the year are given on page 19.
The mitigate these risks, is prepared by the Manager and considered Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are by the Audit Committee.
monitored daily by the Manager and considered by the Board at each of its meetings.
The Board also determines the nature and extent of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
Gearing Risk The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan Market Risk facilities or to use Contracts for Dierence CFDs to invest in The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and the equities.
The principal risk is that while in a rising market the principal risks are therefore market related such as market Company will benefit from gearing, in a falling market the downturn, interest rate movements, and exchange rate impact would be detrimental.
Other risks are that the cost of movements.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect gearing may be too high or that the term of the gearing inappropriate in relation to market conditions.
The Company and increase the Companys assets against this background are core to the Companys continued success.
currently has no bank loans and geared exposure is being achieved through the use of long CFDs.
This has reduced the cost Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form part of of gearing as outlined in the Chairmans Statement and provides the market risks category are included in Note 18 to the financial greater exibility.
The Board regularly considers gearing and statements on pages 47 to 51 together with summaries of the gearing risk and sets limits accordingly.
Further details are policies for managing these risks.
These comprise: market price provided in the Investment Policy.
risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, credit risk and derivative instruments risks.
Tax and Regulatory Risks A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could A key area of risk for the Company remains the scal crisis facing lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company some Eurozone countries, although the likelihood of this has being subject to tax on capital gains.
A breach of other legal decreased, as outlined in the Managers Review on page 5.
If and regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2012 17
