20 Business review Results for 2011 12 For the year ended 31 March 2012, the Profit before tax of 354 million was The management of our cost base Group reported revenue of 1,681 million, up 1% on the prior year.
Profit before tax represents a key area of focus and during 3% below the prior year.
Uncertainty in the on a statutory basis fell by 16 million to 2011 12, we removed 20 million of Eurozone and constraints on market liquidity 217 million as a result of an increase in recurring costs.
resulted in a fall in voice revenue and a the impairment of goodwill and other marginally lower performance in our intangibles of 92 million.
Operating profit by business segment % electronic business.
In contrast, the post 2012 trade risk and information business saw In 2011 12, due in part to a decline in our 41 34 25 strong growth.
voice business, we moved closer to our 2011 aim to generate operating profit evenly 46 33 21 The Group reported an operating profit between voice, electronic and post trade of 372 million, down 1% on the prior year.
Voice Electronic The Groups operating profit margin for Post trade risk and information the year ended 31 March 2012 remained From continuing operations before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
Markets 2012 2011 ICAP provides services in a wide range of Revenue Revenue Change Asset class m m % geographies and asset classes, with the Rates 681 704 3 breadth of its market coverage being a key FX 343 336 2 strength of the Group.
Commodities 203 211 4 Emerging markets 167 171 2 We report on our business segments Credit 154 182 15 externally in the same way that we manage Equities 133 137 3 and report them internally.
The major Total 1,681 1,741 3 segments are voice, which we report by During the current year the allocation of asset classes has been amended to improve the accuracy of revenue geographic region, electronic and post allocated to each asset.
The prior year asset classes have been re-presented to enable comparability.
ICAP executes or arranges trades executing multiple transactions on behalf of its customers in one of simultaneously, which means that three ways, depending on the asset more than one of these methods may class and market involved.
These be involved in providing customers methods exist in the electronic with their desired outcome.
and voice businesses as described on the following pages.
ICAP also frequently assists market users ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Business review 21 Voice Hybrid Our voice business is active in wholesale markets across all asset classes with the geographic Hybrid broking provides traders performance as below.
with the ability to enter orders electronically and execute trades directly, or to engage the services Operating of a voice broker to do so on Revenue Change profit Change Voice performance m % m % their behalf.
EMEA 566 4 106 6 The Americas 478 10 42 36 This flexibility of execution method Asia Pacific 128 4 6 n a is a hallmark of ICAPs service to the Total 1,172 7 154 11 capital markets.
By providing market participants with execution methods From continuing operations before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
that range from fully automated to hybrid trading, supported by the skills ICAPs voice strategy is to extend its hybrid Rates of a voice broker, ICAP delivers a service capabilities further, to invest in growth Our rates business comprises interest rate customised to the market to deliver markets and seize opportunities as they arise, derivatives, government bonds, repos, cash optimal liquidity profiles.
We have to expand market share in products where we products and financial futures.
steadily migrated our products on to are not the leader, and to maintain our market our hybrid broking platforms and, in share where we are the leader.
Rates performed below the prior year.
most cases, have done so ahead of Markets were more active in the first half the regulatory requirements.
As a result, Voice revenue fell across all geographic of the year, despite near zero short-term ICAP is well positioned to provide a full regions, with the Americas seeing a 10% fall, interest rates.
Risk appetite fell between complement of hybrid trading systems.
as the credit and rates markets suffered from September and December as traders reductions in volumes.
This fall was partially closed their books earlier than normal for offset by a good performance from our the holiday season.
Volumes improved in Voice Quote driven markets, energy business.
A 36% fall in the Americas January, prompted by volatility due to anonymous negotiation, episodic operating profit was principally due to the Eurozone sovereign debt issues.
ICAP liquidity, fewer market makers, decline in revenue.
Declines in EMEA were maintained its market leading position complex instruments, periodic trading activity, large notional amounts driven by weaker performances in cash in the euro, sterling and cross-currency products and repos.
Asia Pacific experienced swaps businesses.
both a decline in rates in Singapore, as we Hybrid rebuilt our team, and tough trading Our government bonds business performed Provides traders with the combined conditions in equity derivatives in Japan.
in line with the prior year, benefiting from benets of broker assisted and electronic markets This was partly offset by increased activity issuance and the quantitative easing in offshore renminbi in Hong Kong CNH programme increasing volumes in the UK, and commodities in Australia.
as well as covered bond issuance in the US.
Electronic Continuous liquidity, price depth of market, order driven market, many market participants, standardised instruments, continuous pricing, smaller notional amounts 1.
Name give-up broking Name give-up ICAP identifies and introduces counterparties who have indicated their willingness to trade with each other, and who have reciprocal Dealer 1 ICAP Dealer 2 credit arrangements.
These counterparties contract directly with each other, bearing the settlement obligation as well as the counterparty credit risk themselves.
Contract and settlement Increasingly these trades are novated into clearing and ICAP aims to automate the messaging process where possible.
22 Business review continued We expanded our financial futures and options activity slowed slightly at the beginning of Emerging markets execution-only business by hiring 31 former the fourth quarter.
i-Forwards, our hybrid FX ICAP is active in emerging markets across MF Global employees.
The business is now run platform used for forward FX transactions, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Central and on a global basis, with operations in London, continued to see increased volumes.
While local New York, Chicago and Sydney.
Since the year markets remain robust, international markets end we opened an office in Dubai.
Commodities are suffering from the withdrawal of balance Our commodities business comprises energy, sheet capital for market making activities.
In Japan, we sold our Japanese government which includes power, oils, natural gas, coal, This has had a significant impact on our bond business to Central Totan Securities Co softs, agriculture, alternative fuels, in addition revenue growth, with rates and credit Limited and simultaneously purchased a 20% to shipping, metals and intellectual property.
businesses contributing to the decline, shareholding in the combined business.
At but with Latin America growing strongly.
the same time, the Group also increased its Continuing volatility in the global shareholding in Totan ICAP Co Limited, a commodity markets benefited ICAP during Brazil continues to be an area of focus for leading interest rate derivatives broker.
Growth was strong in energy, ICAP.
Revenue was 25% above the previous especially oils, natural gas and emissions, as year, largely driven by activity on BM&F and ICAP launched DerivX, a mid-price matching well as in softs, agriculture and alternative Bovespa.
We have restructured our Brazilian platform for euro and sterling interest rate fuels.
However, this was more than offset business and we expect to breakeven in late and inflation swaps and options and more by disappointing performances from 2012 13. recently added Australian dollar interest shipping, metals and intellectual property.
Brazil revenue m rate options fixings to the platform.
Shipping has seen freight rates in both 2012 tanker and dry markets remain at a cyclical 37 For the sixth consecutive year, ICAP low due to the oversupply of ships and a 2011 was voted first in the interest rate broker sluggish global economy.
We expect the 30 category in Risk Magazines annual tanker market to recover at a faster rate interdealer rankings.
In February 2012, 2010 ICAP Shipping acquired the remaining 75% 15 FX of Island Shipbrokers, a Singapore-based Our FX business comprises spot and ship broking business, to strengthen its forwards and a joint venture in options.
presence in the tanker market and the Credit FX performed solidly, with volumes in spot, strategically important Asia Pacific region.
Our credit business comprises corporate forwards and options all improving against Our metals business has faced an increase bonds and credit derivatives.
the prior year, as markets remained volatile in competition, and intellectual property due to the ongoing uncertainty arising from has experienced disappointing auctions.
Credit experienced challenging markets the sovereign debt crisis.
Forward FX had and underperformed against the prior year, its third successive record year, largely as a In February 2012, ICAP acquired Sun particularly in the Americas.
Volumes in the result of being increasingly used as a money Commodities, a leading broker of European credit markets were muted due to global market funding instrument.
The start of the biodiesel and alternative fuels based in credit concerns and a reduction in risk second half of the year saw growth continue Geneva.
The acquisition marked an appetite, which impacted new corporate bond compared to the previous year.
However, expansion into European alternative fuels issuance.
Secondary trading has also been and strengthens our presence in the adversely affected, with much of the new broking of physical commodities.
issuance yet to find its way into the market.
Matched principal broking Matched principal ICAP enters into simultaneous or near-simultaneous purchase and sale transactions on behalf of customers and Dealer 1 ICAP Dealer 2 is responsible for settlement.
Settlement risk to ICAP is minimised through use of ICAP contracts ICAP contracts the delivery versus payment settlement and settles and settles model where delivery of the traded instruments, i. e. the change in their ownership, occurs at the same time, and is dependent on payment.
ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Business review 23 The implementation of the LTRO facility by Electronic To support our market-leading the European Central Bank has not changed position further at a time of heightened the downward trend in bank lending growth ICAP operates EBS and BrokerTec, the competition in electronic trading, we in the Eurozone.
However, activity started worlds leading electronic trading platforms continue to invest in product development, to pick up in the fourth quarter as increased in the OTC FX and fixed income markets.
The platforms offer efficient and effective trading solutions to customers in more than FX Equities 50 countries across a range of instruments Average daily FX electronic broking Our equities business principally comprises including spot FX, US Treasuries, European volumes on the EBS platform were equity derivatives.
The equity derivatives government bonds and EU and US repo.
The $152 billion, a 1% increase on the prior market was volatile during the year, with platforms are built on our bespoke networks year.
Since late October, volumes on the large and frequent swings caused by global which connect participants in wholesale EBS platform declined largely due to economic and political uncertainty.
quieter market conditions and the rangeequity derivatives business saw slight bound nature of two of EBSs main Electronic Change revenue growth in the Americas and minor currencies, the Japanese yen and the performance m % declines in EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Revenue generated from Revenue 301 1 Commonwealth and emerging market Operating profit 127 4 ICAP maintained its market share in equity pairs has been maintained, with continued From continuing operations before acquisition and derivatives and continues to see future growth in ruble volumes.
disposal costs and exceptional items.
However, the equity derivatives business ICAPs strategy is to grow our global The EBS platform continued to demonstrate faces challenges from contracting volumes, electronic business through increasing its role as the FX markets central source commission compression and increased volumes of existing products and by of pricing and liquidity.
This was seen on competition from new entrants.
4 August 2011 when heightened volatility resulted in $407 billion traded on EBS, In March 2012, ICAP launched iLinked, Combined average daily electronic volumes the third-highest volume in its history.
the first fully tradeable Delta One equity for the EBS spot FX and BrokerTec fixed derivatives platform.
The platform operates income platform for the 12 months ended EBS attracts growing interest from a wide as a hybrid, offering traders the ability to 31 March 2012 were $800 billion, an range of counterparties for fixing orders.
transact either electronically or by voice.
increase of 3% on the previous year, with Volumes are improving in its continuous iLinked offers a range of equity-based the highest ever average daily volume, match block trading solution.
Interest in exchange for physicals, which will allow $906 billion, being achieved in June 2011. both NDFs and CNH also continues to grow traders to access a transparent pool of from a variety of counterparties across liquidity across 120 instruments.
Other Electronic reported revenue of all regions.
EBS completed its first ever Delta One and equity derivative products 301 million, a decrease of 1% over non-deliverable FX swap NDS trade in will be added during 2012 13. the prior year.
NDSs are designed to make by 4% to 127 million.
traders FX position management simpler and more accurate.
Exchange broking give-up Exchange give-up ICAP executes a trade on an exchange in the capacity of executing broker on behalf of a customer.
The customers clearing member Customer ICAP Exchange Other exchange accepts the trade for settlement, at which member point ICAP ceases to be party to the transaction and settlement risk transfers.
This model is used to broke financial, commodity, equity derivatives and cash Customer clearer Clearing house Other clearer equities instruments.
ICAP is a member of the worlds largest derivatives exchanges.
24 Business review continued EBS continues to win leading industry We continue to invest in BrokerTec.
Following the launch of i-Swap, initial trading awards including, for the ninth consecutive In March 2012 we launched a new volumes on the platform exceeded our year, Best Electronic Broker by FX Week, generation platform, considerably expectations.
However, as the euro crisis and Best Matching Platform award in the improving order volume and latency.
unfolded in the summer of 2011, volatility 2011 Profit & Loss Readers choice Digital spiked, spreads on interest rate derivatives Markets Awards.
Interest rate swaps increased and electronic trade activity on In November we received regulatory i-Swap diminished.
The results of the recent Rates approval for iSwap Euro Limited to operate elections in France and Greece and the Government bonds and repo a multilateral trading facility MTF for OTC potential ramifications for past commitments Total average daily volumes in US derivatives.
iSwap Euro Limited now runs to austerity and the fiscal pact have troubled Treasury products, EU repo and US repo, ICAPs electronic platform for IRS trading markets.
Volatility has increased and risk at $648 billion, increased 3% versus the and is operated and controlled by ICAP, with appetite diminished.
Current conditions are prior year.
Trading on the BrokerTec Barclays Capital, Bank of America Merrill not supportive of active electronic markets platform reflected a number of factors, Lynch, Deutsche Bank and J. P. Morgan in IRS and we anticipate continued volatility including the negative impact of the together investing $34 million.
Eurozone crisis on investor confidence, shareholding banks support the platform lower risk appetite and continued with streaming prices.
In January 2012, i-Swap won the OTC rationalisation within banks.
In addition, Trading Platform of the Year award in the the flat yield curve for US Treasuries has iSwap Euro Limited provides a trading Risk Awards 2012.
This award recognises created fewer trading opportunities.
platform for euro IRS, as well as electronic best practice in the risk management and execution services, in a wide range of derivatives markets.
Both the US and Europe saw a fall in interest rate products.
The platform is repo activity, as a shortage in collateral managed by ICAP as a part of its technology MyTreasury was exacerbated by the European Central infrastructure and control environment.
MyTreasury is our electronic money market Banks first LTRO in December 2011, ICAP has accordingly continued to trading platform for corporate treasury raising 489 billion.
Another unlimited consolidate 100% of its profit in its post-tax investors.
MyTreasury currently offers three-year LTRO, raising a further earnings.
Once the other shareholders have corporate treasurers access to AAA-rated 530 billion, followed in February 2012. recognised their non-controlling interests, money market funds and term deposits.
ICAP will retain 43% of iSwap Euro Limiteds Other products, including certificates In Europe, electronic trading of European post-tax earnings.
ICAP believes that this of deposit, short-term loans, commercial government bonds continued the growth co-investment will assist in the growth and paper and repos, are planned to be launched.
seen in the previous year, with January development of the platform, as swaps 2012 reporting record volumes recorded trading becomes increasingly electronic.
in Austria, Belgium and Italy, and the ICAP continues to earn all voice and second highest monthly turnover in France.
Following a slow summer in UK gilts, business picked up towards the end of 2011 12.
The transition from a voice-brokered market to an electronic venue normally takes a number of years, as the liquidity pool migrates slowly and as customers become more comfortable with the new trading environment.
The ICAP International Ruble Settlement Forum ICAP established the International Ruble to enable more reliable and efficient ruble trade Settlement Forum IRSF in 2007 to bring settlement, and for the banks to commit to together the Central Bank of Russia CBR implementing BESP.
ICAP co-hosts the IRSF and correspondent banks.
The aim of the which is held twice a year, with the support IRSF is to encourage the CBR to mandate of all major ruble market participants.
correspondent banks to use its Banking Electronic Speedy Payments BESP real-time gross settlement system, ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Business review 25 The value of funds invested via MyTreasury Post trade risk and information Despite a persistent global backdrop of increased by 41% from the previous year low interest rate policy, with little prospect to 18 billion.
The platform offers access The post trade risk and information business of change and widespread central bank to more than 2,000 fund accounts.
The comprises the portfolio risk services liquidity, the high levels of stress in the pressures on interbank liquidity, along with businesses Reset, ReMatch and TriOptima, European sovereign markets resulted in the need for banks to strengthen their the transaction processing business, Traiana, greater LIBOR volatility as counterparty capital bases, have increased levels of and the information business.
credit concerns impacted funding markets.
interest in participation in MyTreasury.
Reset benefited from both this volatility and from offering an expanding product Post trade risk and Change information performance m % For the fourth consecutive year, set to its customers, including a bond bulk Revenue 208 13 MyTreasury was awarded the Treasury risk service in European government bonds Operating profit 91 15 Management International Best Money and a floating floating basis product.
Market Fund Dealing Portal award by From continuing operations before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
the readers of Treasury Management ReMatch provides market risk mitigation International.
and portfolio rebalancing services to ICAPs aim is to continue to develop its address the problems derived from the post trade risk and information business by Credit build-up of illiquid, calendar spread and providing innovative services that enable ICAP has electronic platforms with net open positions in CDS portfolios.
In our customers to reduce risk and costs, functionality that has been developed to October 2011, ReMatch launched a new as well as to increase efficiency, return on address different aspects of the credit service to mitigate risk arising from quanto capital and capacity to process trades.
These credit platforms CDS sovereign contracts denominated provide automated trading to all major in a different currency that reference The post trade risk and information business banks and have consistently been one of European sovereigns.
Quanto CDS enables continued to perform strongly, reporting the top three interdealer credit platforms.
banks to reduce their positions in what revenue of 208 million, an increase of Our European platform has benefited from would otherwise be illiquid maturities.
Operating profit double-digit growth, specifically in CDS ReMatch has become a significant force increased by 15% to 91 million, reflecting Index and high yield products.
in the market in CDS for western European improved market conditions, additional sovereigns, emerging market sovereigns customers, as well as increased usage and corporates.
Sovereign market stress, from existing customers.
particularly in Europe, created significant increases in demand for ReMatch, most Reset and ReMatch notably in the second half of the year.
Reset is the market leading provider of risk mitigation services within the interest rate and inflation markets, and accounts for the largest proportion of ICAPs post trade risk revenue and operating profit.
Resets expertise in short-end risk management helps its customers to control multiple forms of fixing and basis risk across numerous asset classes.
BrokerTec platform upgrade ICAPs BrokerTec business successfully launched functionality previously available and is built a new trading system using a customised version using technology that enables BrokerTec to of the NASDAQ OMX Genium INET platform, increase order volume tenfold and, in some which provides customers with substantially cases, decrease order input latency by as increased performance and a greatly enhanced much as 50 times.
The platforms average user experience.
The new system provides very latency is now less than 200 microseconds, low latency and high throughput, and maintains with previous average latency at all of the built-in capabilities specifically approximately 10 milliseconds.
It retains all the 26 Business review continued TriOptima Traiana In January 2012, Traiana launched another TriOptima, through triReduce and triResolve, Traiana provides global banks, new service on the Harmony platform.
is the market leader in risk elimination and broker dealers, buy-side firms and Harmony CCP Connect provides a risk mitigation solutions for OTC derivatives, e-trading platforms with solutions to comprehensive solution for OTC FX clearing, primarily through the reconciliation and automate post trade processing of financial including connectivity, workflow automation, elimination of outstanding OTC derivatives.
The Harmony network is the trade matching and affirmation.
With a single The triReduce service decreases backbone of Traianas post trade business.
connection to Harmony, it provides access to counterparty credit risk, the number of It is used by more than 500 of the worlds all CCPs, thus lowering costs and complexity outstanding contracts and the gross notional leading financial companies and has become for market participants.
The solution value through early termination of existing the market standard for post trade supports all proposed US and European contracts for rate, credit and energy swaps.
Traiana is focused on clearing rules and workflows, simplifying growing its original FX business and compliance for FX clearing companies and Since 2008, triReduce has eliminated more exploiting the strengths of the Harmony their customers.
In January 2012, Traiana than $230 trillion in total notional volume network by adding new asset classes and Harmony was certified by the CME Group for interest rate and credit default swaps.
for the submission of OTC FX derivatives.
In As we anticipated last year, during 2011 12 March 2012, Traiana announced that six of triReduce saw an increase in activity and At 31 March 2012, Harmony was the largest FX clearers had chosen Traiana eliminated $72 trillion in notional volume processing an average of 1.1 million Harmony for their comprehensive client in interest rate swaps alone.
Eliminating transactions per day, an increase of more clearing solution.
trades helps to reduce systemic risk and than 25% from the same period last year.
reduces potential administrative exposure In addition, Traianas trade aggregation joint Information in the event of a default.
venture with CLS Group, CLSAS, continued ICAP Information is the leading provider to expand.
CLSAS is processing more than of OTC market information, delivering The increased use of compression of trades 324,000 transactions per day, having grown independent data solutions to financial demonstrates to regulators that risk in by more than 85% over the past 12 months.
It empowers customers the system can and should be reduced by As part of the strategy to expand into new to make trading decisions with OTC market actively managing portfolios.
This is as asset classes, the platform was extended information across key asset classes.
ICAP relevant for centrally cleared trades as it is to provide solutions for exchange traded Information provides data services across for bilateral trades, as sending trades to a derivatives, equity derivatives CFDs and ICAPs brokered product range and offers central counterparty CCP does not fully cash equity transactions.
innovative solutions for real-time, end-ofeliminate risk.
Traiana announced an industry effort to The triResolve service facilitates the reduce risk in algorithmic trading of FX ICAPs data is the key source of management of counterparty credit with leading FX prime brokers and trading mark-to-market data for the industry and exposure and reduction of operational risk by platforms.
This initiative offers customers the of intelligence behind algorithmic trading reconciling entire OTC portfolios.
triResolves ability to centrally monitor and manage FX and research models for customers.
With revenue grew as its customers increased electronic communication networks trading average daily volume data brokered by their focus on operational and credit risk activity and trading limits on a global basis.
ICAP fed into our data products, there are through portfolio reconciliation, margin The initiative contributed to growth during 29 million average daily data updates in call management and dispute resolution.
the year and is expected to provide additional growth opportunities in the future.
TriOptima compression gains pace TriOptimas compression of interest rate and eliminated by 21 SwapClear members using process, more than 950,000 transactions have credit default swaps continued to gain pace, TriOptimas triReduce service since the first cycle been completely eliminated within SwapClear.
in particular its compression of cleared trades in 2008.
Terminating risk-neutral trades in As illustrated, the triReduce compression within LCH.
In February, SwapClear contributes to reducing systemic risk methodology can significantly mitigate TriOptima announced that $110 trillion in total and facilitates system processing by increasing counterparty credit risk.
It levels out the peaks notional volume in euro, Japanese yen, sterling operational efficiency and reducing potential and troughs in the bilateral risk landscape.
and US dollar interest rate swaps had been exposure in the event of a default.
Through this ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Business review 27 more than 96,000 instruments delivered Profit for the year to end users.
The business has exhibited 2012 2011 strong performance versus the prior year Year ended 31 March m m with growth in both revenue and profit.
Profit before tax 354 350 It employs a subscription-based charging Acquisition and disposal costs 137 94 structure which provides a regular Exceptional items 23 revenue stream.
Profit before tax from continuing operations statutory 217 233 Tax 77 50 The depth and breadth of our products Profit from continuing operations 140 183 expanded in 2011 12 with the launch of From continuing operations before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
Eurex ICAP Swap Spreads, in collaboration with Deutsche Brse, which enabled us to develop a real-time benchmark for euro The Group reports a solid performance No exceptional items have been included yield spreads.
In the fixings and reference with profit after tax, acquisition and disposal for the year 2011 23 million charge.
space, we expanded our partnership with costs and exceptional items of 140 million Thomson Reuters with the delivery of spot from continuing operations.
Tax FX fixes and the development of new The overall objective continues to be to services in emerging markets, following Acquisition and disposal costs plan and manage the tax affairs of the Group the launch of ICAP LatAm.
In March 2012, The Group saw amortisation of intangibles efficiently while complying with local tax ICAP agreed to extend its data product remain in line with the prior year with no regulations.
The Groups effective tax rate, and distribution agreement with QUICK material intangibles acquired in the year.
excluding acquisition and disposal costs, Corp in Japan for three years.
Impairments to goodwill and intangible exceptional items and discontinued assets increased by 92 million in the period operations is 27% 2011 26%.
from 11 million to 103 million principally relating to Link and Arkhe.
While Link has The Groups tax charge is affected by the maintained its market share, it faces certain varying tax rates in different jurisdictions challenges due to a contracting market.
applied to taxable profits, the mix of those The impairment in Arkhe was offset by profits, and the rules impacting deductibility a 31 million release of legal liabilities of certain costs.
The Group continues booked on acquisition that created the to take a prudent approach to the original goodwill balance.
There is no cash management of its tax affairs and provisions impact from making these impairments.
are set to cover tax exposures.
We expect A gain of 13 million was recognised the Groups effective tax rate, excluding primarily on the sale of our Japanese acquisition and disposal costs, exceptional government bond business.
items and discontinued operations to be between 27%-29% for the financial year Exceptional items ending 31 March 2013.
The Groups policy is to disclose separately items in its income statement as exceptional which are non-recurring and, in terms of both size and nature, material.
Counterparty risk before a triReduce cycle The triReduce compression cycles significantly Counterparty risk after a triReduce cycle mitigate counterparty credit risk and thereby net notional $bn net notional $bn risk in the wider financial system by levelling out the peaks and troughs in the risk landscape.
2.5 2.5 1.5 Each peak in the graphs represents the risk one 1.5 of the counterparties participating in the given 0.5 0.5 triReduce compression cycle has to all the other -0.5 -0.5 participants before and after the cycle.
-1.5 -1.5 -2.5 $bn -2.5 1.5 2.5 -0.5 0.5 -2.5 -1.5 0.5 1.5 -1.5 -0.5 28 Business review continued Balance sheet Earnings and EPS Interim dividends are calculated as 30% of The Groups net assets at 31 March 2012 We believe that the most appropriate EPS the previous years full-year dividend.
measurement ratio for the Group is adjusted approach is expected to continue for the basic EPS as this measure better reflects the 2012 13 financial year.
Gross debt is 629 million, a 64 million Groups underlying cash earnings.
Adjusted increase as a result of additional drawings basic EPS from continuing operations Operating profit cash conversion under the RCF to finance the capital increase excludes the impact of the performance of The Groups consolidated cash flow in the UK regulated entities and the issue of acquisition and disposal costs, exceptional statement is set out in the financial European Commercial Paper.
Committed items note 23 and discontinued operations statements.
headroom at 31 March 2012 was note 25.
The calculation of EPS is set out 324 million 2011 362 million.
in note 2 to the financial statements.
The Group continues to generate substantial At 31 March 2012, the earliest debt free cash flow.
Over the long term it is maturity date relating to the RCF was Adjusted basic EPS from continuing expected free cash and post-tax profit will 31 May 2013.
However, on 20 April 2012 operations increased by 1% to 40.1p.
At 31 March 2012 our free cash this facility was extended to 31 May 2014.
The Groups basic EPS from continuing flow conversion was 103% compared to Cash and cash equivalents increased by operations reduced from 28.1p to 21.1p 81% in 2010 11, primarily as a result of an 143 million to 547 million, as a result of and total basic EPS, including discontinued improvement in short-term working capital.
cash received from the investment by our operations, reduced from 28.7p to 21.1p.
partners in iSwap Euro Limited and additional funding of UK regulated entities.
During the year the Group purchased As a consequence, net debt has reduced by 14.3 million shares in to Treasury Shares to 79 million to 82 million.
offset the dilution caused by the prior year scrip dividend.
Restricted cash at 31 March 2012 was 50 million 2011 73 million.
Dividend This represents cash which the Group For the past four years, the Group has paid does not have immediate and direct a dividend equal to 50% of adjusted basic access to, such as a CCP clearing house.
EPS reflecting the boards desire to balance This balance fluctuates with trading.
distributions to shareholders against the wider capital demands of the Group.
At 31 March 2012, the Groups Pillar 1 regulatory capital headroom remained For the current year we propose, subject relatively stable at 0.9 billion 2011 to shareholder approval, to increase the 1.1 billion as a result of the low market final dividend to 16.00p.
This will result and credit risk in the Group.
The Group in an increase in the full-year dividend continues to benefit from the BIPRU of 2.05p to 22.00p equal to 55% of Investment Firm Consolidation waiver adjusted basic EPS.
From continuing operations before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
Traiana launches new era in risk management for the FX industry In June Traiana announced that it had partnered algorithmic and high frequency trading.
This with the leading FX prime brokers and trading initiative was the culmination of a comprehensive platforms to launch an industry-wide initiative to effort by prime brokers Citi, Deutsche Bank, monitor centrally and manage FX trading activity J. P. Morgan and Morgan Stanley, together with and trading limits globally.
The new version of platforms Bloomberg Tradebook, Currenex, Harmony CreditLink provides the EBS, FXCM, Hotspot FX and Thomson Reuters.
FX industry with the control and real-time risk management capabilities to manage risks from ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Business review 29 Free cash flow Investment in technology 2012 2011 Our investment in technology enables Year ended 31 March m m us to provide sophisticated solutions Cash from ongoing operations 425 363 across a wide range of products to Interest and tax 113 86 our customers around the world giving Cash flow from ongoing operating activities 312 277 us a significant competitive advantage.
Capital expenditure 52 69 The ability to transact on systems with Dividends from associates and investments 8 2 the highest level of stabilty is of vital Ongoing free cashflow 268 210 importance to our customers.
We ensure Discontinued and exceptionals 21 that our electronic, voice and post trade Free cash flow 268 189 platforms not only meet the current needs of our customers but also Cash generated by operations before exceptional items.
anticipate their future requirements in a rapidly changing environment.
Cash generated from ongoing operations The Group distributed 135 million of its increased by 62 million in 2011 12 free cash flow to shareholders through its Technology spend primarily as a result of a decrease in dividend and bought back 14.3 million shares as a percentage of revenue % restricted funds 23 million and the impact in to Treasury Shares at a cost of 56 million.
2012 of initially unsettled trades 25 million.
13 Event after the balance sheet date Net payments in respect of interest and tax On 20 April 2012, the Group extended 2011 increased by 27 million, primarily reflecting the maturity date of the $880 million RCF 12 an increase in tax payments as the prior year incorporating up to a $200 million swingline 2010 benefited from a tax refund.
facility by one year to 31 May 2014.
11 Fixing services volume matching services Following the previously successful launch of ICAPs low latency, exchange based messaging next generation of web solutions, fixing services in asset classes including credit, technology has created increased trading allowing services to be more easily inflation and interest rate derivatives, ICAP opportunities for customers.
Strategically, distributed to our customers.
These new, continued to expand in this area over the past it provides ICAP with a generic, highly flexible and proven technologies provide financial year with the launch of ICAP DerivX configurable platform to enable further ICAP with the necessary agility required web based fixings.
The introduction of expansion into other asset classes.
ICAPs to proactively adapt to both market powerful algorithmic matching, together with browser based framework underpins the and regulatory changes.
