DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Principal risks and unc Review of our business ertainties continued INTRODUCTION OUR RETAIL BUSINESS Overview of the business Overview of our retail business Sky operates the most comprehensive multichannel, multiWe retail subscription TV and communications services to platform pay television service in the UK and Ireland.
We have led residential and commercial premises in the UK and Ireland.
Our the UK into the age of HDTV and launched Europes first 3DTV customers enjoy an unprecedented choice of entertainment, channel, Sky 3D.
We give our customers greater access, control sports, movies, news and arts channels.
We own and broadcast and choice while on the move with Sky Go and at home with the Sky Channels which we retail together with the Sky Anytime, our video on demand service.
NOW TV, our new internet Distributed Channels to our TV customers and since July 2012 TV service launched in July 2012, gives consumers a new, flexible we offer simple and commitment free access to an internet TV way to access Skys content.
Since launching Sky Broadband and service.
We keep our customers connected with great value Sky Talk in 2006, Sky has been the UKs fastest growing provider broadband and telephony products in the home via DSL and of home communications.
fibre, and away from the home with The Cloud WiFi.
At 30 June 2012, we had 10.6 million customers taking a total Products and Services of 28.4 million products.
We are the UKs fastest growing home Television communications provider and the UKs largest triple play provider The Sky Channels and Sky Distributed Channels: For our with 3.4 million customers choosing to take each of TV, broadband TV Customers, we group the Sky Distributed Channels and telephony.
other than the Premium Sky Distributed Channels and the Sky Basic Channels into two packs: Entertainment and Our consistent operational performance is translating into Entertainment Extra.
Entertainment is available for 20 per record financial results.
For the year ended 30 June 2012, total month and includes popular entertainment channels such revenue increased by 3% with continued growth in products and as Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Sky Living, Comedy Central, Watch, Gold, customers.
Combined with our continued focus on efficiency, Alibi and FX.
Entertainment Extra is available from 25 per revenue growth translated into 14% growth in adjusted operating month and includes all the channels from our entertainment profit to reach a record 1,223 million and the highest operating pack plus additional channels including Discovery and Disney.
profit margin for six years at 18%.
We continued our strong Customers then have the option to add a combination track record for shareholder returns with 9% growth in the full of Premium Channels to their package.
The Sky platform year dividend of 25.4p, our eighth consecutive year of growth.
In currently offers access to 174 pay television channels 145 Sky addition, we have returned 543 million to shareholders via our Distributed Channels and 29 Sky Channels and in addition all ongoing share buy-back programme meaning that we will have customers can receive more than 300 free-to-air television returned almost 1 billion throughout the course of 2012. and radio channels and services.
Our agreements with the owners of the Sky Distributed Channels typically grant us This review of the business sets out the Groups main activities the exclusive right to offer these channels to residential DTH which are summarised as follows: customers in the UK and Ireland.
Our retail business our products and services Sky : TV Customers can use Sky to record two programmes simultaneously whilst they are watching another programme Our content our channel portfolio recorded earlier.
TV Customers can also use Sky to pause Our adjacent businesses Sky Media: Wholesale Distribution and rewind live TV and record entire series at the touch of a and Sky Betting and Gaming button with the Series Link feature.
The Sky app on selected smartphones allows TV customers to see what is on, view Infrastructure and technology satellites: playout and uplink recommendations, record programmes and set up a Series facilities: digital satellite reception equipment: encryption and Link whilst on the move.
security and communications infrastructure Sky HD: We operate an HD service which consists of over 60 Certain terms used herein are defined in the Glossary of terms HD channels offering a range of content across all key genres which appears at the end of this Annual Report.
including six Sky Sports channels, 11 Sky Movies channels, Sky 1 HD, Sky Living HD, Sky Atlantic HD, Sky Arts 1 HD and The Company, a public company limited by shares and domiciled 2 HD, Sky News HD, two Sky Box Office HD channels, 30 HD in the UK, operates under the laws of England and Wales.
It was channels provided by our partner broadcasters and six incorporated in England and Wales on 25 April 1988.
Our principal free-to-air HD channels.
executive offices are located at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD, England.
A list of our significant investments is set out Sky Multiroom: We also offer our DTH customers a multiroom in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
subscription, allowing customers to watch Sky TV in different ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 12 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW rooms at the same time by purchasing additional set-top For homes covered by our broadband network, two different boxes.
broadband products are available: Sky Broadband Everyday Lite and Sky Broadband Unlimited.
Both products offer a Sky Anytime TV and Sky Anytime : Sky Anytime TV offers a maximum download speed of up to 14Mbps depending on wide selection of content from across the Sky platform, from location and up to 1.3Mbps upload speeds.
Sky Broadband both the Sky Channels and the Sky Distributed Channels Everyday Lite is limited to a 2GB monthly usage allowance, for customers to watch on demand.
Sky Anytime, our IP whereas Sky Broadband Unlimited has no limit on monthly delivered video on demand service, is available to homes usage.
We also offer Sky Broadband Connect to customers that have an active broadband connection.
Once connected, in the UK who are not within the coverage area of our relevant TV Customers have the opportunity to access a broadband network.
Sky Broadband Connect offers a broad and regularly updated library of content on demand.
maximum download speed of up to 6Mbps depending on With thousands of hours of TV to choose from, customers location and 40GB monthly usage.
Sky Broadband Unlimited can access over 600 films, popular entertainment and drama and Sky Broadband Connect are also available to customers box-sets including iconic series from HBO, documentaries, who do not take a television service from Sky.
As part of a Sky the arts and much more.
Broadband subscription, we provide customers with a WiFi capable DSL modem router.
We also offer installation and Sky Go: DTH customers can access the Sky Go service to enjoy equipment repair and exchange services.
From April 2012, we live TV from their Sky TV package and on demand content gave Sky customers even greater choice with the launch of via their PCs, laptops, selected smartphones and iPads.
Each a fibre broadband offering called Sky Fibre Unlimited, which Sky home is entitled to register up to two compatible devices.
gives customers access to download speeds of up to 38 Mbps On iPhone, iPod Touch, iPad and supported Android devices, or up to 76 Mbps for 20 and 30 per month respectively, customers are able to access all six Sky Sports channels, without usage caps.
The fibre product is wholesaled from BT ESPN, British Eurosport, Sky News, Sky 1, Sky Living, Sky Arts, and therefore available to Sky customers who reside within Sky Movies and Sky Atlantic, with further channels and the coverage area of BT Infinity.
devices to be added over time.
On laptops and computers, customers are able to access more than 30 live channels, Sky Talk: Sky Talk is a telephony service available to homes in including all six Sky Sports channels, Sky Movies, Sky News, the UK and has over 3.7 million customers.
Sky Talk Freetime Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Sky Arts, MTV, Disney, G. O. L. D, Nickelodeon, offers customers inclusive evening and weekend calls of NatGeo, History, Eden and ESPN, supported by an extensive up to an hour to UK landlines and Sky Talk Unlimited offers library of on demand content.
customers unlimited calls for up to one hour per call to UK landlines and certain international destinations.
Sky Talk Sky Box Office: Our Sky Box Office service currently offers our customers are also able to take their telephony line rental DTH customers television premieres of movies and occasional directly from Sky.
As with Sky Broadband Unlimited, Sky Talk live sports entertainment events on a pay-per-view basis.
is now available to customers who do not take a television service.
Sky Store: Sky Store is our on demand rentals service, giving customers a choice of over 1,000 movies including new The Cloud WiFi: We have further enhanced our broadband releases just out on DVD and a whole library of favourites, all service with the commercial launch of The Cloud WiFi available to rent instantly.
hotspots in April, to give seamless internet access free of charge to Sky Broadband Unlimited, Sky Fibre Unlimited NOW TV: NOW TV, a brand new internet TV service giving and Sky Connect customers.
We now have over 11,000 high consumers an easy and commitment-free way to access some bandwidth, public access hotspots across the UK, providing of the best Sky content, is now available across a wide range valued WiFi access for customers in locations where people of internet-connected devices.
The service, which launched on dwell.
The service provides even greater flexibility and 17 July 2012 with Sky Movies, offers easy access to hundreds convenience and will prove particularly valuable for customers of the best and latest Hollywood titles on a flexible basis.
who access Sky content on the go, with high quality wireless Movie fans have the option of choosing from a 15 monthly delivering an even better experience for Sky Go and Skys pass, offering completely unlimited access to more than 450 other video-rich applications.
different films each week, or renting movies on a simple payas-you-go basis, with prices starting from 99p.
Sky Business We offer a number of our services, including our HD service, to Home communications commercial TV customers in the UK and Ireland under a range Sky Broadband: Sky Broadband is now the choice of over of contracts.
The types of contract, and the channels, which are four million homes across the UK.
As at 30 June 2012, our available to any particular commercial customer depend primarily broadband network covered almost 83% of UK households.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 13 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Review of our business continued upon the type of business premises within which such customers Sky Living: Sky Living HD is targeted primarily at our female wish to show our services.
Our commercial TV customers include customers.
During this financial year, notable original offices, retail outlets, hotels, pubs and clubs.
Following our commissions include the dating show Love Machine, hosted by acquisition of The Cloud Networks Limited we also offer WiFi Chris Moyles and Stacey Solomon, Steps Reunion and follow up services to commercial customers.
Steps on the Road Again, and the second series of the original British Drama Bedlam.
Sky Living also continues to bring the ECJ judgment: On 4 October 2011, the European Court of Justice best of US content to our customers including Bones and ECJ handed down its judgment in actions brought by the Criminal Minds.
Premier League PL, amongst others, against pubs using and suppliers supplying foreign decoder cards and boxes to Sky Atlantic: Sky Atlantic HD was launched in February view live PL football.
The ECJ determined that restrictions in an 2011 following Skys exclusive deal with HBO.
It has become agreement between the PL and its Greek licensee, which obliged best known for showing some of the most iconic and hotly that licensee not to supply decoding devices to persons outside anticipated shows in television and is committed to investing the licensed territory, are contrary to EU laws.
The ECJ found in, and showcasing, world-class UK originations across drama that, although the PL did not have copyright in the live coverage including its first UK drama Hit and Miss starring Chloe of its football matches, the PL title sequences, logo, anthem and Sevigny, comedy and documentaries as well as bringing the graphical elements did attract protection under the Copyright best programming from the US.
The High Court consistently applied the ECJs judgment Sky Arts: Sky Arts 1 HD provides contemporary culture and to the cases before it and the defendants in the civil litigation entertainment programmes and documentaries such as the foreign card suppliers were found to have infringed the Playhouse Presents starring Tom Jones, Emma Thompson PLs copyright.
The High Court also held that certain provisions and David Tennant and The South Bank Show.
Sky Arts 2 HD in the PLs agreements with foreign distributors prohibiting the broadcasts a range of the best in classical arts programming distribution of decoder cards outside of the authorised territory from around the world, including opera, literature, theatre, film were void under competition law.
OUR CONTENT Sky 1, Sky Living, Sky Atlantic, Sky Arts 1 and Sky Arts 2 are all Overview of our content broadcast in HD and are also available on Sky Go except Sky Arts A key element of our approach is to invest in high quality content 2 and content from the channels is available on demand via Sky to give customers a greater choice of TV that they value and are Anytime, Sky Anytime and Sky Go.
Our investment on-screen differentiates Sky from free-to-air offerings, gives customers more reasons to join Sky Movies and helps keep our existing customer base loyal.
Our investment Sky Movies Overview: The Sky Movies channels show a broad approach is aimed at building on our traditional strengths in range of movies from the latest Hollywood blockbusters to sport, movies and news and at the same time driving a step cult classics.
Through our agreements with the major studios change in our entertainment portfolio.
We know that homeand some of the leading independents, Sky Movies offers grown, exclusive content resonates strongly with our customers customers over 450 different movies a week, including up to so as part of the accelerated development of our entertainment five new premieres before any other pay TV channel.
To make offering, we have committed to increasing our investment in highit easier for customers to find their way around the choice quality British content by 50% to around 600 million per year.
of films, movies are grouped into different genre channels including Sci-Fi & Horror, Comedy, Drama & Romance and Our channel portfolio Family.
The Sky Movies channels are divided into two packs.
Our entertainment channels Customers taking both packs receive 11 Sky Movies channels Sky 1: Sky 1 HD is targeted primarily at a 16-44 age group plus bonus channels Disney Cinemagic and MGM HD.
All of audience and includes UK-commissioned comedy and the Sky Movies channels are available in HD.
We dont show drama, factual and features, factual entertainment and big, any advertisements during our films and we PIN-protect popular family entertainment in addition to the best of US pre-watershed.
Sky Movies can be enjoyed by Sky Movies TV programming.
In the last year, Sky 1 aired some of the most customers on demand via Sky Anytime, Sky Anytime and popular original comedy and drama in multi channel history Sky Go.
including Mount Pleasant, Stella and Trollied.
Sky 2 broadcasts primarily a catch-up schedule of programming from Sky 1 and Competition Commission Investigation: In August 2010, Ofcom is complemented by Sky 1s programming library and some announced its decision to refer the supply and acquisition of exclusive content.
pay TV movie rights and the wholesale supply and acquisition of pay TV packages including Skys movie channels to the Competition Commission CC for investigation.
On 23 May ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 14 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW 2012, the CC reached revised provisional findings that Skys 2.
Under the WMO Obligations, the wholesale price is linked position concerning the acquisition and distribution of to Skys retail price.
The WMO Obligations do not specify subscription pay TV movie rights does not adversely affect a maximum price for Sky Sports 1 HD and or Sky Sports 2 competition between pay TV retailers.
Rather, Sky is required to offer these channels on a fair, not proposing any regulatory intervention.
The statutory reasonable and non-discriminatory basis.
In April 2010, Sky deadline for completing the investigation is 3 August 2012. applied to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT for a suspension of the implementation of the WMO Obligations.
Sky Sports On 29 April 2010, Skys application was resolved by way of Sky Sports Overview: The Sky Sports Channels are Sky Sports an agreed Order from the President of the CAT.
The terms of 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports 4, Sky Sports News the Order resulted in the suspension of certain aspects of and Sky Sports F1.
Sky Sports F1, our dedicated Formula 1 Ofcoms decision, pending the outcome of Skys substantive F1 channel, was launched this year and gives in-depth appeal.
In summary, the effect of the Order is as follows: access to all 20 Grand Prix races at no extra charge for Sky TV customers who subscribe to Sky Sports 1 and 2 or our HD Sky is required to offer the Affected Channels to each of pack.
Each of the Sky Sports channels is also available in HD BT, Top Up TV and Virgin Media VM for distribution via to subscribers to our Sky HD service who are entitled to the Digital Terrestrial TV and to VM for distribution via cable.
Sky Sports 1, Sky Other parties may apply to the CAT to be added to the list Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports 4, Sky Sports News and of persons to whom Sky is required to offer its channels.
Sky Sports F1 are all available online on Sky Go.
Some content In the event that BT, Top Up TV or VM enter into a from those channels is also available on demand via Sky distribution agreement for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2, Anytime, Sky Anytime and Sky Go.
the distributor is required to pay Sky the equivalent of the Sky Sports programming rights: In March 2006, the European maximum price Sky may charge for the channel s under the Commission rendered legally binding the PLs commitment WMO Obligations.
The difference between that price and to sell live TV rights in six balanced packages for the three the rate card price set by Sky will be paid into escrow.
seasons from 2010 11, with no one bidder being allowed to At the conclusion of Skys appeal, the CAT will determine buy all six packages.
In February 2009, the Group successfully the distribution of the monies held in escrow.
bid for five of those six available packages each of 23 games of live rights to PL football in the UK.
These rights run from On 23 November 2010, the CAT made an agreed Order the beginning of the 2010 11 season to the end of the 2012 13 extending the implementation of the WMO Obligations to a season.
In June 2012, following a restructure of the tender company called REAL Digital EPG Services Limited, in respect process, seven packages of live Premier League rights to 154 of distribution via DTH satellite.
matches for seasons 2013 14 to 2015 16 were offered by the PL.
No one bidder was allowed to win more than 116 matches.
On 1 June 2010, Sky submitted its appeal against Ofcoms We successfully secured five of the seven PL packages 116 live decision to impose the WMO Obligations on the following matches per year from the 2013 14 season.
In addition to the grounds: PL rights, our programming rights for the Sky Sports channels include exclusive live rights to broadcast, in the UK and in Ofcom had no jurisdiction to adopt its decision under its most cases Ireland, a range of sport including a number of sectoral powers: football, motorsport, rugby union, rugby league, cricket, golf Ofcom erred in finding that Sky acted on an incentive to and tennis events.
We also give valuable exposure to other withhold supply of the Channels: sports which appeal to a smaller but equally committed audience.
Ofcom erred in its assessment of the impact and proportionality of the WMO Obligations: and Wholesale must-offer obligations: On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published its decision to impose wholesale must-offer Ofcom acted unlawfully in imposing the WMO Obligations.
obligations on Sky the WMO Obligations for the channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 1 HD and Sky Sports 2 The appeal has now been heard at the CAT and judgment is HD the Affected Channels.
The WMO Obligations require awaited.
Sky, amongst other things, to offer the Affected Channels on a wholesale basis to third parties which satisfy various On 11 August 2010, Ofcom issued a decision that a term minimum qualifying criteria including financial, technical and included in the agreement between Sky and Top Up TV for security criteria.
The WMO Obligations specify maximum the supply of Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 to Top Up TV on prices that Sky may charge for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports WMO terms breached the conditions of Skys broadcasting ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 15 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Review of our business continued licences that implement the WMO Obligations the WMO advertising across Skys video on demand service and product Conditions.
Sky submitted two appeals against this decision placement opportunities.
on 11 October 2010 and 14 February 2011 respectively.
These Wholesale Distribution two appeals were dealt with by written submissions without a Overview of wholesale distribution hearing.
Judgment of these appeals is also awaited.
In fiscal 2012, we derived 351 million in revenues from Sky News continuing operations from the wholesale distribution of our Sky News provides national and international news to viewers in channel portfolio 2011: 323 million.
Wholesale operators see the UK, Ireland and across the globe.
The channel is broadcast Wholesale Operators section below acquire the rights from unencrypted on Astra satellites see Satellites on page 17, and us to distribute certain of the Sky Channels which they combine distributed to viewers via cable and satellite networks in Europe, with other channels from third parties and distribute to their Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
It is also currently shown on most subscribers.
cable networks in the UK and Ireland and on DTT as part of the Wholesale Operators Freeview offering in the UK.
Sky News is also available to viewers In the UK, we have arrangements in place with VM for the reon the Sky News website, Sky News mobile applications, the Sky transmission of certain of the Sky Channels and associated on News for iPad application and on Sky Go.
In 2012 Sky News won demand services on its cable systems, as well as agreements the Royal Television Society award for both best home news with British Telecommunications and Top Up TV Limited for coverage and best international coverage for its work during the the distribution of Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 via DTT.
Special correspondent Alex Crawford was July 2012 we entered into an arrangement with TalkTalk for the also named Television Journalist of the Year for the fourth time by retransmission of certain of the Sky Channels for distribution on the Royal Television Society and Anna Botting won Best Presenter.
In Ireland, we have arrangements in place with In May 2012, Sky News Arabia, the multi-platform 24-hour Arabic UPC Communications Ireland Limited for the re-transmission of rolling news channel joint venture between Sky and ADMIC was certain of the Sky Channels to their subscribers via its cable and broadcast for the first time to over 50 million homes across the MMDS systems.
We also have contracts with a number of smaller Middle East and North Africa to offer a new and fresh approach regional cable operators in both the UK and Ireland.
to news across the Arab world.
Sky News Arabia is committed Free-to-Air DTT distribution to providing independent news, whatever the story and offers We currently broadcast versions of three of our channels, Sky its audience must-view content from breaking stories to sport, News, Challenge and Pick TV, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT in from business to entertainment.
The channel is supported by an the UK.
Editorial Advisory Committee, a first for the region, to ensure Sky News Arabia delivers balanced, accurate and consistent news.
Betting and Gaming Broadcasting from its state of the art headquarters in Abu Dhabi, We offer a range of betting and gaming services under the Sky the channel promises a new horizon in the way it delivers news Bet, Sky Poker, Sky Vegas and Sky Bingo brands, in relation across multiple platforms.
to which Sky acts as bookmaker and operator.
These products are licensed by the Alderney Gambling Control Commission OUR ADJACENT BUSINESSES and are made available across multiple platforms, including Overview of our adjacent businesses by means of Sky set-top boxes, by telephone, on the internet In addition to the retail operations described above, we operate and on mobile devices.
The gambling business is certified by a number of other businesses including wholesaling our channel the gambling charity GamCare and has in place stringent social portfolio, selling advertising on ours and partner channels and responsibility measures for the protection of minors and other Sky Bet.
We are able to monetise our content investments more vulnerable people.
We also take active measures to prevent broadly with these businesses as they benefit from a larger persons resident in the US and other restricted jurisdictions from customer base.
participating in our internet gaming and betting services.
Sky Media INFRASTRUCTURE AND TECHNOLOGY In fiscal 2012, we derived revenue from continuing operations Overview of our infrastructure and technology of 440 million from advertising sales and sponsorship 2011: Sky utilises a powerful hybrid network to support our leading 458 million.
Sky Media sells advertising and sponsorship innovation for customers and deliver a high quality integrated across all of the Sky Channels and also acts as the advertising entertainment experience for our customers.
The satellite is and sponsorship sales representative for more than 63 partner the most efficient means to broadcast high definition live TV channels.
We also sell online advertising across Skys network into the home and the local storage of the HD set-top box gives of websites, mobile advertising, green-button advertising, customers the added capability of time-shifted viewing.
Our ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 16 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW HD box is Ethernet enabled and connects via broadband to give all of our set-top boxes from our own manufacturing division, customers access to an extensive library of additional content Home Service and Supply.
Home Service and Supply designs, to view at times convenient to them.
We have also developed a specifies, develops and sells HD set-top boxes both PVRs and range of software applications that enable access to our content standard set-top boxes although the actual manufacture of across multiple devices and away from the home.
Developing these set-top boxes is outsourced to factories in Romania and and maintaining our technological capabilities is critical to our China and in conjunction with such activities supports the commitment to and passion for continued innovation.
development of additional new features and functionality for those set-top boxes.
Satellites The digital transmissions of our channels for reception both by Encryption and security DTH customers and cable operators take place using capacity on We use VideoGuard conditional access technology to encrypt a number of satellite transponders on the SES Astra 2A, 2B and and decrypt digital television and audio services and to control IF satellites and the Eutelsat 28A satellite.
We contract with SES access to certain channels on our DTH platform.
We use the Astra for the majority of this capacity currently 32 transponders VideoGuard technology and distribute smartcards in the and with Arqiva for the remaining capacity four transponders UK and Ireland under an agreement with NDS.
NDS supplies on the Eutelsat 28A satellite.
In June 2009, we signed a long smartcards and undertakes ongoing security development term transponder arrangement with SES Astra which covers the and other support services in return for the payment of fees renewal of the arrangements on 24 of our transponders.
In conjunction with NDS, we maintain a policy of refining transponder agreements have expiry dates between 2019 and and updating the VideoGuard technology in order to restrict 2025 and thus provide long term security for the platform.
As unauthorised DTH reception of our services.
We take appropriate part of this arrangement we also entered into an inter-satellite measures to counter the threats of unauthorised reception, back-up transponder agreement which provides protection including the implementation of over-the-air countermeasures for all of our SES Astra supplied transponders in the event of altering authorised smartcards in a manner which then renders transponder or satellite failures.
We have been designated a counterfeit smartcards obsolete and seeking legal remedies, non pre-emptible customer under each of our transponder both civil and criminal, reasonably available to us.
This means that, in the event of satellite or monitor and review other methods of piracy of our services that transponder malfunction, our use of these transponders cannot may be developed and where appropriate we deploy counterbe suspended or terminated by SES Astra or Eutelsat in favour measures to thwart such activities.
of another broadcaster with pre-emption rights in preference to Other digital rights management and or conditional access us.
We have also put in place disaster recovery plans in the event systems are used to protect our content when it is distributed that we experience any significant disruption of our transponder by means of other platforms e. g. cable, DTT or via the range of capacity.
Where we wholesale our We consider that these arrangements with SES Astra are content these systems will have been deployed and are operated essential to the business of the Group within the meaning of by the relevant wholesale customer e. g. VM or Top Up TV and section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006. similarly in relation to certain devices e. g. iPhones or Xbox the device manufacturer may determine the type of content In addition to using some of the transponder capacity that protection system deployed.
we have contracted to broadcast Sky Channels, some of our transponder capacity and in some cases all of the capacity on a Communications Infrastructure particular transponder is sub-contracted to third parties for the Our broadband network comprises a fixed access network, transmission of other channels or services, including certain of a public WiFi access network, and a long distance core fibre the Sky Distributed Channels.
To provide broadband, we rent the copper line to the customer from BT on regulated terms.
Those lines are connected Playout and uplink facilities to our own electronic equipment in the local telephone exchange.
Our uplinking facilities, located in southern England, provide Our electronic equipment is currently sited in 1,965 telephone uplinking capacity for our digital services to the satellites referred exchanges, covering an area containing 83% of the UKs to above.
Our television channels are distributed from two sites population.
In April 2012, we launched fibre broadband, offering with each of the sites providing backup service for the other.
a choice of up to 38 Mbps or up to 76 Mbps.
To provide fibre broadband, we purchased a further wholesale product from BT, Digital satellite reception equipment which BT is again obliged by regulation to supply, which makes In order to receive our DTH service, customers are required to use of BTs electronics in the cabinet before being put onto our have a digital satellite system, which includes a satellite dish network.
Our WiFi network, The Cloud, was made available to all and LNB low noise block converter, a digital satellite receiver broadband customers on our Unlimited packages in April 2012. set-top box, a smartcard and a remote control.
We source ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 17 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Review of our business continued It provides public WiFi access in over 11,000 venues across the News Corporation voting agreement UK.
The Clouds hotpsots are in the final stages of a migration On 21 September 2005, the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc. News UK onto our own broadband platform: using Skys equipment in local Nominees Limited and News Corporation entered into a voting exchanges, and using our broadband backbone network.
Our agreement, pursuant to which News UK Nominees Limiteds core fibre network is one of the most extensive all-IP, fibre optic voting rights at any general meeting are capped at 37.19% the networks in the UK.
It comprises 7,500 kilometres of high capacity Voting Agreement.
The provisions of the Voting Agreement fibre optic circuits, stretching from Cornwall to Scotland.
This cease to apply inter alia, on a change of control of the Company.
state of the art network has recently been upgraded to increase EMTN bond issue capacity and uses the latest IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS On 3 April 2007, the Group established a Euro medium term note technology.
programme the EMTN Programme which provides the Group with a standardised documentation platform to allow for senior SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS debt issuance in the Eurobond markets.
The maximum potential The Companies Act 2006 requires us to disclose the following issuance under the EMTN Programme is 1 billion.
On 14 May 2007, significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a under the EMTN Programme the Company issued Eurobonds change of control of the Company: consisting of 300 million guaranteed notes paying 6.000% interest and maturing on 14 May 2027 the Notes.
Pursuant Premier League to the final terms attaching to the Notes, a holder of the Notes In 2009, British Sky Broadcasting Limited a group subsidiary has the option to require the Company to redeem or at the entered into an agreement the PL Licence with The Premier Companys option purchase its Notes at its principal amount League Limited the PL, pursuant to which the Group was plus interest for the relevant period if there is a change of control awarded five of six available packages of live audio-visual rights of the Company i which within 90 days of the change of control, for Premier League football the six packages are together the if the Notes carry an investment grade credit rating, results in Live Packages.
The PL will not award all of the Live Packages a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal to a single licensee either on its own or as part of a consortium of that rating: or ii where, if the Notes carry a non-investment or through one or more of its related parties the Single Buyer grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more notches or Rule.
Pursuant to the PL Licence, the PL can suspend and or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii where, terminate all of the rights which are included in, or exercisable as if the Notes do not carry a credit rating, the Company does not part of, one of the six available Live Packages in the event that seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided a change of control of the Company occurs at any time prior to that in each case, the change of control is cited by the ratings the expiry of the PL Licence which, if it had occurred prior to the agencies as being the rationale for the downgrade.
award of the Live Packages to the Group, would have resulted in a breach of the Single Buyer Rule.
February 2008 and November 2008 bond issues In February 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in In June 2012, following a restructure of the tender process respect of US$750 million 6.100% senior unsecured notes due seven packages of live PL rights for seasons 2013 14 to 2015 16 2018.
In November 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in were offered by the PL.
The Group successfully secured five of respect of US$600 million 9.500% senior unsecured notes due the seven PL packages 116 live matches per year from 2013 14 2018.
Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the securities, a season and we will now enter into exclusive negotiations with the holder of the securities has the option to require the Company PL to agree the terms of a long form agreement which in relation to redeem or purchase its securities at a price equal to 101% to the consequences of a change of control of the Company is of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up expected to be based on the terms of the current PL Licence.
to the date of repurchase, if there is a change of control of the Company i which, if the securities carry an investment grade Revolving Credit Facility credit rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade The Group has a 743 million syndicated revolving credit facility rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or ii which, within 90 days RCF with a maturity date of 31 October 2016.
There are two of the change of control, if the securities carry a non-investment opportunities to request an extension of one further year to the grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more notches or a RCF, at the lenders discretion, with a potential final maturity of withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii where if October 2018.
The lenders can require any amounts outstanding the securities do not carry a credit rating, the Company does not under the RCF to be repaid in the event of a change of control of seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided the Company other than in the event that News Corporation or that in each case, the change of control is cited by the ratings any subsidiary or holding company thereof acquires such control.
agencies as being the rationale for the downgrade.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 18
