Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Investment Limits and Restrictions statements for the year ended 31st December 2012. all at time of investment The Company will not normally invest more than 8% of its gross assets in any one individual stock 31st December Business Review 2012: 4.1% largest individual stock.
Business of the Company The Company will normally limit its five largest investments The Company carries on business as an investment trust and to 40% of its gross assets.
was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross Act 2010 for the year ended 31st December 2011.
In the opinion assets in liquidity funds in normal market conditions of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its 31st December 2012: 7.8%.
affairs so that it should continue to qualify as an investment The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets trust under the HM Revenue and Customs Qualifying rules.
in companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of Approval for the year ended 31st December 2011 is subject to gross assets in UK listed investment companies review should there be any subsequent enquiry under 31st December 2012: nil.
The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross The Company is an investment company within the meaning of assets in other UK listed investment companies Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a 31st December 2012: nil.
close company for taxation purposes.
The Company will use gearing when appropriate to A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in increase potential returns to shareholders: the Companys the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 7 and the Investment policy is to use gearing in a range of 95-120% in normal Managers Report on pages 8 to 11. market conditions 31st December 2012: 99%.
A more specific tactical range is agreed between the Board and the Objective Investment Manager from time to time.
The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from North American investments by out-performance of the The Company only hedges its currency risk in respect of the Companys benchmark, the S&P 500 Index expressed in full value of the debenture.
Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and Investment Policies and Risk Management guidelines is monitored by the Manager and is reported to the In order to achieve its investment objectives and to seek to Board on a monthly basis.
manage risk, the Company mainly invests in a diversified Performance portfolio of quoted companies including, when appropriate, In the year ended 31st December 2012, the Company exposure to smaller capitalisation stocks.
The Company produced a total return to shareholders of 7.3% and a total currently has separate portfolios dedicated to larger return on net assets of 8.6%.
This compares with the return capitalisation and smaller capitalisation exposure.
The number on the Companys benchmark in sterling terms, of 10.5%.
At of investments in the larger capitalisation portfolio will 31st December 2012, the value of the Companys investment normally range between 60-100 stocks representing between portfolio was 501.2 million.
The Investment Managers 80-100% of the Companys equity portfolio.
The number of Report on pages 8 to 11 includes a review of developments investments in the smaller capitalisation portfolio will normally during the year as well as information on investment activity range between 100-120 stocks representing between 0-20% within the Companys portfolio.
of the Companys equity portfolio.
The Company may invest in pooled funds to achieve these aims.
Total Return, Revenue and Dividends Gross total return for the year amounted to 43.3 million As at the year end, the Company was invested in 83 larger 2011: 9.9 million and net total return after deducting finance capitalisation stocks and 114 smaller capitalisation stocks, costs, administrative expenses and taxation, amounted to representing 84.1% and 5.4% of the Companys total assets 35.3 million 2011: 2.7 million return.
for the year totalled 6.7 million 2011: 5.0 million.
24 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 In addition to the 5.0p interim dividend already paid, the Performance against the Companys peers Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.5p per share 2011: The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative 11.0p, payable on 8th May 2013 to shareholders on the register to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors at the close of business on 12th April 2013.
An interim dividend performance relative to a broad range of appropriate of 5.0p per share 2011: nil was paid on 8th October 2012. competitor funds both in the UK and the US.
These distributions total 6.2 million 2011: 5.1 million.
After Performance attribution payment of the final dividend the revenue reserve will amount The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to to 10.0 million 2011: 9.7 million.
assess how the Company achieved its performance relative Key Performance Indicators KPIs to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and the Companys relative performance of the various assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: components such as asset allocation, gearing and stock selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year Performance against the benchmark index ended 31st December 2012 are given in the Investment This is an important KPI by which performance is judged.
Share price premium discount to net asset value NAV Performance Relative to Benchmark Index per share Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st December 2002 The Board has adopted a share issuance and repurchase 130 policy that seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Companys shares in the market and 120 thereby seeks to manage the volatility and absolute level of the premium and discount to NAV per share at which the 110 Companys shares trade.
The Boards intention is to use its share issuance and repurchase powers with the aim of 100 establishing a reasonably stable long term level of premium and discount.
In the year to 31st December 2012, the shares 90 traded between a discount of 1.3% and a premium of 5.3%.
Discount Performance JPMorgan American share price total return.
10 JPMorgan American net asset value per share total return.
8 The Benchmark total return is represented by the grey horizontal line.
6 4 2 Ten Year Performance 0 2 Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st December 2002 4 6 250 8 10 200 12 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Source: Datastream.
150 JPMorgan American discount using capital NAV with debt at fair value.
100 Ongoing charges The ongoing charges represent the Companys 50 management fee and all other operating expenses, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 excluding finance costs and any performance fee payable, Source: Morningstar.
expressed as a percentage of the average daily net assets JPMorgan American share price total return.
The method of calculating the ongoing JPMorgan American net asset value per share total return.
In previous years the Total Benchmark total return.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25 Directors Report continued Expense Ratio TER was calculated, which represented and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the the Companys management fee and other operating implementation and results of the investment process with expenses excluding finance costs and performance fee the investment manager, who attends the majority of Board payable expressed as a percentage of the average month meetings, and reviews data which shows statistical end net assets during the year.
The ongoing charges measures of the Companys risk profile.
The investment excluding any performance fee for the year ended manager employs the Companys gearing within a strategic 31st December 2012 is 0.68% 2011: 0.69%.
The ongoing range set by the Board.
charges including any performance fee payable is the ratio, Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the expressed in percentage terms, of the management fee future prices of the Companys investments.
This market plus all other operating expenses plus any performance fee risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest payable, but excluding finance costs, to the average of the rate risk and other price risk.
The Board considers asset month end net assets during the year.
The ongoing charges allocation, stock selection and levels of gearing on a including performance fee payable for the year ended regular basis and has set investment restrictions and 31st December 2012 is 0.68% 2011: 0.69%.
guidelines, which are monitored and reported on by Share Capital JPMAM.
The Board monitors the implementation and The Company has authority to both purchase shares for results of the investment process with the Manager.
cancellation and issue new shares in the market for cash at a However, the fortunes of the portfolio are significantly premium to net asset value.
determined by market movements in US equities, the rate of exchange between US dollars and sterling and interest The Company did not repurchase any shares for cancellation rate changes.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as During the year, the Company issued 4,037,545 new ordinary an investment trust, the Company must comply with shares to the market at an average price of 908.4p per share, Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for a total gross consideration of 36,677,000.
Details of the Companys approval are given end, the Company has issued a further 250,000 shares to the under Business of the Company above.
Were the Company market at a price of 967.5p per share, for a total gross to breach Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status consideration received of 2.4 million.
and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys Special Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue and portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The repurchase shares will be put to shareholders for approval at Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored the Annual General Meeting.
by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions Principal Risks of the Companies Act 2006 and, as its shares are listed on With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
A breach of the These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Companies Act 2006 could result in the Company and or Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs gearing, may lead to underperformance against the could result in the Companys shares being suspended from Companys benchmark index and peer companies, listing, which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider Directors seek to comply with all relevant regulation and discount.
The Board manages this risk by diversification of legislation in the UK, Europe and the US and rely on the investments and through its investment restrictions and services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, and its guidelines which are monitored and reported on regularly professional advisors to monitor compliance with all by the Managers.
J. P. Morgan Asset Management JPMAM relevant requirements.
provides the Directors with timely and accurate Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details management information, including performance data and of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports 26 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 best practice, including information on relations with The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the report on pages 30 to 34. investment strategy and the process of the Manager, performance against the benchmark and a relevant peer Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs group over the long term and the support the Company accounting, dealing or payments systems could prevent receives from JPMAM.
As a result of the evaluation process, accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys the Board confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing financial position.
The insolvency, negligence, poor appointment of the Manager is in the interest of shareholders administration or fraud at the Companys custodian could as a whole.
result in the Companys securities being lost or that access to them is compromised.
Details of how the Board monitors Management and Performance Fees the services provided by JPMAM and its associates and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control The basic management fee is calculated and paid quarterly in are included within the Internal Control section of the arrears and is charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum of the Corporate Governance report on pages 33 and 34.
Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Investments in funds on which JPMAM or any of its associated companies earn Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include a management fee are excluded from the calculation and market price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, therefore attract no fee.
In addition, a performance fee may be liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further details are disclosed payable.
The Companys investment in the JPMorgan US Dollar in note 21 on pages 54 to 60.
Liquidity Fund is not subject to a management fee.
Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% of the legislation, including in the US and the European Union, difference between the net asset value capital return and the may adversely effect the Company: Current examples are capital return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling the AIFM Directive and FATCA.
The performance fee due in respect of any single year is recommendations to the Board on accounting, dividend divided into equal parts payable over three years.
and tax policies and the Board seeks external advice where appropriate.
In addition, the Company is subject to Any negative fee resulting from underperformance is deducted political risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior years with free movement of capital.
any remaining amount of the negative fee carried forward to be absorbed in future years.
Future Developments The future development of the Company is much dependent The performance fee payable in any one year will not exceed upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the 0.25% of the fully diluted net asset value at the previous light of economic and equity market developments.
The 31st December, with any unpaid excess being carried forward Investment Manager discusses the outlook in his report on until paid in full.
In the year ended 31st December 2012 the Companys net asset value capital return underperformed the capital return of the Management of the Company S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling terms, by 1.2 percentage The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Management points on the above basis.
This results in a negative UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is employed under a contract performance fee calculation of 546,000, which when added to terminable on six months notice, without penalty.
If the the negative balance brought forward of 588,000 gives a Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, negative balance of 1,134,000.
This amount is carried forward the balance of remuneration is payable by way of and will be offset against any future outperformance.
Going Concern JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, The Directors believe, having considered the Companys dealing and custodian services to the Company.
investment objectives see page 24, risk management policies see note 21 on pages 54 to 60, capital management policies JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 Directors Report continued and procedures see note 22 on page 61, nature of the portfolio standing for reappointment continues to be effective and to and expenditure projections: that the Company has adequate demonstrate commitment to the role.
resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational Director Indemnification and Insurance existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have consider there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnities were in place during the year and as at Payment Policy the date of this report.
It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by business and therefore it has no standard payment terms.
In the Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
which business will take place and it is the Boards policy to There is no cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
As at 31st December 2012, the Company had no outstanding trade creditors 2011: nil.
Disclosure of information to Auditor Directors In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the time when this report was approved: The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant share capital, are shown below: audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and 31st December 1st January 2012 2012 b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves Sarah Bates 5,000 5,000 aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Kate Bolsover 2,178 1,113 1 information.
Simon Bragg 1,102 1 Sir Alan Collins 555 The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in James Fox 35,800 35,800 accordance with the provision of S418 2 of the Companies Act James Williams 6,000 6,000 2006.
1 Appointed to the Board on 4th May 2012.
Section 992 Companies Act 2006 Since the year end, Simon Braggs beneficial holding has The following disclosures are made in accordance with increased by 288 ordinary shares.
Section 992 Companies Act 2006: In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all Capital Structure continuing Directors will retire and seek reappointment at the The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Sarah Bates, Kate cover of this report.
Bolsover and James Williams, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
Having been appointed during the year, Voting Rights in the Companys shares Simon Bragg and Sir Alan Collins will retire and seek initial Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the appointment by shareholders.
James Fox does not seek date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual reappointment.
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, having Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues considered their qualifications, performance and contribution Information on environmental matters, social and community to the Board and its Committees, confirms that each Director issues is set out on page 34.
The Company has no employees.
28 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Annual General Meeting At the date of this report, the following had declared a NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action Shareholders Number of you should take, you should seek your own personal financial voting rights % advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Brewin Dolphin Limited 7,787,984 15.7 Markets Act 2000.
Investec Wealth & Investment Resolutions relating to the following items of special business Limited including Rensburg 4,477,181 9.2 will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Cheviot Asset Management 2,526,177 5.0 i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory Legal & General Group plc 1,688,968 4.0 pre-emption rights resolutions 10 and 11 The Company is also aware that approximately 4.4% of the At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek renewal Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through of the authority to issue up to 5,049,159 new ordinary shares savings products managed by JPMAM, registered in the name for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,262,289 of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting rights are not such amount being equivalent to 10% of the present issued exercised by the beneficial holders, in accordance with the share capital and disapply pre-emption rights upon such terms and conditions of the savings products, under certain issues.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of circumstances JPMAM has the right to exercise those voting Meeting on page 62.
This authority will expire at the conclusion rights.
That right is subject to certain limits and restrictions of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2014 unless and falls away at the conclusion of the relevant general renewed at a prior general meeting.
It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of shares to participants purchasing shares through the JPMorgan Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and savings products and also to other investors when the powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and to do so.
As such issues are only made at prices greater than the Companies Act 2006. the net asset value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys administrative expenses, other than There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities the management fee which is charged on the value of the in the Company: no special rights with regard to control Companys assets, over a greater number of shares.
The issue attached to securities: no agreements between the holders of proceeds are available for investment in line with the securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no Companys investment policies.
The Company currently does agreements which the Company is party to that affect its not hold any shares in the capital of the Company in Treasury.
control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation loss of office.
Resolution 12 At the Annual General Meeting held on 4th May 2012, Independent Auditor shareholders gave authority to the Company to purchase up to 14.99% of its then issued share capital.
At that time, Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office shareholders were informed that this authority would expire as auditor to the Company and a resolution proposing its on 3rd November 2013 but could be renewed by shareholders reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its at any time at a general meeting of the Company.
The Directors remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to shareholders consider that the renewal of the authority is in the interests of at the Annual General Meeting.
shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV enhances JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
