Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial 90 investments.
The assets are managed by an investment statements for the year ended 30th June 2012. manager based in London who is supported by a 50 strong emerging markets equity team.
Business Review It should be noted that historically, emerging market Business of the Company companies and investments in their shares have shown The Company carries on business as an investment trust and greater volatility and may be subject to certain political and was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment corporate governance risks which are not typically associated trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax with more developed markets and economies.
Act 2010 for the year ended 30th June 2011.
In the opinion of Investment Restrictions and Guidelines the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing affairs so that it should continue to qualify as an investment various investment limits and restrictions: trust under HM Revenue & Customs qualifying rules.
As an investment trust, the Company cannot invest more Approval in previous years is subject to review should there be than 15% of its assets in any one investment, at the time of any subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self acquisition.
With effect from 1st July 2012, this limit no Assessment.
longer applies and instead, the Company must demonstrate The Company is an investment company within the meaning of that it has policies in place to spread its investment risk.
The Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a Company will not invest more than 10% of its total assets in close company for taxation purposes.
any one individual stock excluding investment trusts at the time of acquisition.
A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, and in the No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 6. invested in any one region.
Objective No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from assets before deducting borrowings may be invested emerging markets worldwide.
in: i securities not listed on any recognised investment exchange: and ii holdings in which the Companys interest Investment Policies and Risk Management amounts to 20% or more of the aggregate of the equity In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to capital including any capital having an element of equity manage risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread of any one listed company other than an investment trust of countries, industries and companies.
The Company invests which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs or primarily in quoted securities in emerging stock markets but, which would qualify for such approval but for the fact that where necessary or appropriate in the absence of suitable it is not listed.
quoted securities, it may invest in unquoted securities.
It may invest in other collective investment schemes, but usually only In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing where legal restrictions prevent direct investment by Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of foreigners or prudent diversification can best be achieved in its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies this way.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to achieve and and will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in maintain approved investment trust status in the UK.
companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
The Company is managed to produce capital growth and not to produce any particular level of dividend and therefore the level The Company does not normally enter into derivative of dividend will vary.
transactions, other than short term forward currency contracts to manage working capital requirements and to The Boards policy is to employ gearing when the Manager do so requires prior Board approval.
believes it is appropriate to do so.
The Board regularly reviews this policy.
Should the Manager decide to employ gearing, the These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any Company will remain invested in the range of 90-120% under time at its discretion.
Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is number of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
concentrated portfolio consisting typically of between 60 and JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 17 Directors Report continued Performance Ten Year Performance In the year to 30th June 2012, the Company produced a total Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2002 return to Ordinary shareholders of 10.5% and an undiluted 600 total return on net assets of 11.6%.
This compares with the return on the Companys benchmark index of 14.0%.
At 500 30th June 2012, the value of the Companys investment 400 portfolio including liquidity fund holdings was 690.0 million.
300 The Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 6 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information 200 on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
100 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 0 Gross total loss for the year amounted to 79.9 million 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011: 155.1 million return and net total loss after deducting Source: Morningstar Datastream.
management fee, performance fee, other administrative JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price total return.
expenses, finance costs and taxation amounted to 90.9 million JPMorgan Emerging Markets diluted net asset value total return.
Distributable income for the year JPMorgan Emerging Markets undiluted net asset value total return.
Performance against the Companys peers The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.5p per share The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative payable on 19th November 2012 to holders on the register at to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the the close of business on 26th October 2012.
This distribution performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
The revenue reserve after payment of the final dividend will amount to 8.2 million Performance attribution 2011: 6.1 million.
The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess how the Company achieved its performance relative Key Performance Indicators KPIs to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and the Companys relative performance of the various assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
Performance against the benchmark index Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended This is the most important KPI by which performance is 30th June 2012 are given in the Investment Managers judged.
Information on the Companys performance is Report on page 5. given in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share Managers Report.
The Board has a share repurchase policy which seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Performance Relative to Benchmark Index Companys shares within the market.
This helps to reduce Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2002 the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV per 140 share at which the Companys shares trade in relation to its peers in the sector.
In the year to 30th June 2012, the 130 Companys shares traded at a discount to the diluted net 120 asset value per share of between 6.0% and 11.2%.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price total return.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets undiluted net asset value total return.
Benchmark represented by the horizontal line.
18 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 During the year the Company issued 566,570 Ordinary shares Discount Performance for a total consideration of 2,607,000 on the conversion of 0 Subscription shares.
Since the year end, a further 7,235,298 Ordinary shares have been issued for a total 5 consideration of 33.3 million.
Subscription Shares 10 On 11th June 2009 the Company issued 22,059,783 Subscription shares as a bonus issue to Ordinary shareholders on the basis of 15 one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held.
Each Subscription share confers the right but not the obligation to 20 subscribe for one Ordinary share on any business day during 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 the period from 1st August 2009 to 31st July 2014 both dates Source: Datastream month end data.
inclusive when the rights under the Subscription shares will JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price discount to diluted net asset value per Ordinary share.
The Subscription shares may be exercised between 1st August 2012 and 31st July 2014 at a price of 543 pence.
Ongoing charges Further details on the Subscription shares, including the The ongoing charges represent the Companys management apportionments for capital gains tax purposes and how they fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance may be exercised, can be found on page 59 of this report and costs and performance fee payable, expressed as a on the Companys website at www.
co. uk percentage of the average of the daily net assets during the year.
The method of calculating the ongoing charges has Principal Risks been changed.
In previous years, the total expense ratio With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up TER was calculated, which represented the Companys a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
management fee and other operating expenses excluding These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: interest and performance fee payable, expressed as a Investment Underperformance: An inappropriate investment percentage of the average of the month end net assets strategy, for example asset allocation, the level of gearing or during the year.
The ongoing charges for the year ended the degree of portfolio risk, could lead to underperformance 30th June 2012 were 1.18% 2011: 1.15% TER.
The Board against the Companys benchmark index and peer reviews each year an analysis which shows a comparison of companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on the Companys ongoing charges and its main expenses with a wider discount.
The Board manages these risks by those of its peers.
diversification of investments and through a set of Share Capital investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored The Directors have, on behalf of the Company, the authority and reported on by the Manager.
JPMorgan Asset both to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation and to Management UK Limited JPMAM provides the Directors issue new shares for cash on behalf of the Company.
with timely and accurate management information, including performance data and attribution analyses, revenue A total of 170,000 shares were repurchased into Treasury estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
The during the year under review, for a total consideration of Board monitors the implementation and results of the 877,000.
The Company did not allot any new shares for cash investment process with the Investment Manager, who other than on the conversion of Subscription shares.
Since the attends all Board meetings, and reviews data which show year end a further 93,335 shares have been repurchased into statistical measures of the Companys risk profile.
Political, Economic and Governance: Administrative risks, Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue new shares and to such as the imposition of restrictions on the free movement repurchase shares for cancellation will be put to shareholders of capital.
These risks are discussed by the Board on a for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The full text of these Resolutions is set out in the Notice of Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: A sudden Meeting on pages 56 and 57. departure of the investment manager or several members JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 19 Directors Report continued of the investment management team could result in a associates and the key elements designed to provide short-term deterioration in investment performance.
The effective internal control are included within the Risk Manager takes steps to reduce the likelihood of such an Management and Internal Control section of the Corporate event by ensuring appropriate succession planning and Governance report on page 26. the adoption of a team based approach, as well as special Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include efforts to retain key personnel.
market price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Further Discount: A disproportionate widening of the discount details are disclosed in note 22 on pages 49 to 54. relative to the Companys peers could result in loss of value Future Developments for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount The future development of the Company is much dependent policy and has set parameters for the Manager and the upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the Companys broker to follow.
light of economic and equity market developments in the Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board countries in which it invests.
The Investment Manager holds regular meetings with senior representatives of discusses the outlook in his report on pages 5 and 6.
JPMAM in order to obtain assurance that the Manager continues to demonstrate a high degree of commitment Management of the Company to its investment trusts business through the provision The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Asset of significant resources.
JPMAM, is employed Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify under a contract terminable in one years notice unless notice as an investment trust, the Company must comply is given as a result of poor investment performance, in which with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 case the contract can be terminated on six months notice.
Details of the Companys approval are given If the Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter under Business of the Company on page 17.
Should the notice, the balance of remuneration is payable by way of Company breach Section 1158, it might lose investment compensation.
trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually dealing and custodian services to the Company.
monitored by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing investment strategy and process of the Investment Manager, Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
noting consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company long term, and the quality of support that the Company and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal receives from JPMAM.
As a result of the evaluation process, the proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs Board confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing could result in the Companys shares being suspended from appointment of the Manager is in the interests of shareholders listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
relies on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the Management and Performance Fees Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and DTRs.
The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
The fee is of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
Investments on which best practice, including information on relations with JPMAM earns a fee are excluded from the calculation and shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance therefore attract no management fee.
In addition the Manager receives a performance fee equivalent Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs to 10% of any outperformance of the Companys net asset accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians value NAV per share on an undiluted total return basis over records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms, over the monitors the services provided by JPMAM and its period since the last performance fee was earned.
20 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The performance fee is calculated at the end of the Companys the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider that financial year and charged to its capital account in the annual there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going financial statements.
However, an estimate is accrued on a concern basis in preparing the accounts.
monthly basis and reflected in the Companys published NAV per share.
Payment Policy The amount of performance fee earned and paid to the It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all Manager each year is subject to the following conditions: business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on Any performance fee earned in a given year is divided into which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to two categories: that which can be offset offsetable by abide by those terms.
As at 30th June 2012, the Company had underperformance in future years: and that which cannot no outstanding trade creditors 2011: none.
The non-offsetable fee that can be earned in any one year Directors is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly total The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the assets less current liabilities for the year.
In a year when the year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys Company produces a negative NAV total return per share, share capital, are given below: the non-offsetable fee earned in that year is provided for 30th June 2012 1st July 2011 but not paid.
In a year when the Company produces a Ordinary Subscription Ordinary Subscription positive NAV total return per share, the Company will pay Directors Shares Shares Shares Shares to the Manager all non-offsetable fees earned in that year and those accrued from previous years, subject to the David Gamble 3,781 756 3,781 756 restriction below.
Anatole Kaletsky 4,203 840 4,203 840 The maximum fee that can be paid to JPMAM in any one Nigel Kenny 3,500 3,500 year is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly Percy Mistry 8,000 5,000 3,000 5,000 total assets less current liabilities for the year.
Alan Saunders 6,000 6,000 The offsetable fee is uncapped and equal to any fees There have been no changes in these holdings reported since earned in excess of the 0.75% cap.
Until paid i. e. in a year the year end.
when the NAV total return per share is zero or positive, these fees are capable of being absorbed by any In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all underperformance in a subsequent year.
Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
The performance fee outperformance calculation restarts The Nomination Committee, having considered their at the end of a period when outperformance of the qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and benchmark has been achieved and a performance fee its committees, confirms that each Director continues to be earned.
effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the At 30th June 2012, a cumulative non-offsetable performance Board recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
fee of 1,786,000 had been earned and this amount will be carried forward and will be paid only when there is a positive Director Indemnification and Insurance movement in the net asset value over a future financial year.
As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a Going Concern qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of The Directors believe that having considered the Companys the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnities were in place investment objective see page 17, risk management policies during the year and as at the date of this report.
see pages 49 to 54, capital management policies and An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which procedures see page 55, the nature of the portfolio and indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain expenditure projections, the Company has adequate resources, liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no an appropriate financial structure and suitable management cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 21 Directors Report continued Disclosure of information to Auditors increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys administrative expenses, other than the management fee In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a Company at the time when this report was approved: greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of The Company currently does not hold any shares in the capital which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and of the Company in Treasury.
The full text of the resolutions is b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 56. to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation of any relevant audit information and to establish that the resolution 12 Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in issued Ordinary share capital and up to 14.99% of the accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Companys issued Subscription shares, granted by Act 2006. shareholders at the 2011 AGM will expire on 13th May 2013, unless renewed prior to that time.
The Directors consider that Independent Auditors the renewing of the authority is in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as in the case of the Ordinary shares, the  LLP have expressed their willingness repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a enhances the NAV of the remaining Ordinary shares.
resolution proposing their reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year Resolution 12 gives the Company authority to repurchase its will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
own issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
Annual General Meeting The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of: i 18,273,418 Ordinary shares: NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR and ii 1,528,399 Subscription shares, representing IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary you should take, you should seek your own personal financial shares and issued Subscription shares, as at 4th October 2012 advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and this document.
The authority also sets minimum and Markets Act 2000. maximum prices.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special business If resolution 12 is passed at the AGM it is the Companys current will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting intention to hold in Treasury any shares it may repurchase AGM : pursuant to the authority granted to it for possible re-issue at a i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory premium to NAV.
This policy is kept under review by the Board.
pre-emption rights resolutions 10 and 11 As at 4th October 2012 being the latest practicable date prior The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to to the publication of this document, there were no warrants or issue up to 6,095,203 new Ordinary shares for cash up to an options over Ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, aggregate nominal amount of 1,523,800 such amount being other than the 10,196,130 Subscription shares in issue each of equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital which gives the holder thereof the right to subscribe for one excluding Treasury shares as at the last practicable date new Ordinary share which represent 8.4% of the Companys before the publication of this document.
This authority will issued Ordinary share capital.
If the authority to repurchase the expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2013 Companys Ordinary shares was exercised in full and the unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
authority to repurchase Subscription shares not exercised at It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new all then the Subscription shares would represent 9.8% of the shares or to sell Treasury shares to participants purchasing Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
shares through the JPMorgan savings products and also to The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Annual other investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best General Meeting on pages 56 and 57.
Repurchases of Ordinary interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, they 22 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
