Business review 16 Business review Overview and business model sepsis.
We also manufacture our 22 Financial review BTG is a specialist healthcare company embolisation and drug-eluting beads 26 Principal risks and uncertainties and our brachytherapy products.
that is focused on bringing to market 30 Corporate responsibility report We will conduct the final manufacture medical products that meet the needs of of PEM at our Farnham facility.
specialist physicians and their patients.
We operate through three business areas: Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Business development: We in-license Interventional Medicine and Licensing or acquire products and late-stage & Biotechnology.
We are seeking products and Our core activities are: programmes that we can sell directly in the US through our existing commercial Sales and marketing: We sell our infrastructure.
We are also opportunityproducts directly in the US and primarily driven and consider products that may through partners in other countries.
In require separate sales forces to call on the US we sell CroFab, DigiFab and specialist physicians other than those Voraxaze through our Acute Care sales who are currently our customers.
force, and Bead Block, LC Bead and our brachytherapy products through our Our strategy Interventional Medicine sales force.
Our strategy to deliver long-term value is DigiFab, Voraxaze, Bead Block and to be a focused, integrated, international DC Bead are sold through distributors specialist healthcare business.
We outside the US, where approved, and focus on niche medical areas in which through named patient programmes we can build a leading market position.
By integrating our research and development, manufacturing, sales and R&D expenditure Research and development: We conduct marketing and business development non-clinical and clinical studies to activities, we can capture the full value assess factors including the safety of our marketed products.
We operate 39.7m and efficacy of our pharmaceutical internationally to expand the geographic and medical device product candidates.
use of our products, selling directly in 11 12 39.7m We liaise with regulators over the the US and working elsewhere with local development pathways for our products partners.
We target the needs of 10 11 32.1m and their approvability.
Current specialist physicians and their patients, development programmes include PEM, which means our sales forces are small 09 10 27.0m a potential non-surgical treatment for and we can develop strong relationships varicose veins, and a number of with our customers.
08 09 21.6m exploratory studies using our drug-eluting beads to treat patients with primary and During the year, BTG developed a new 07 08 12.9m metastatic tumours in the liver.
Our annual strategic planning cycle that research and development personnel commences with horizon scanning manage these activities and oversee activities.
These seek to understand the contract research organisations we trends in the global healthcare utilise to conduct many of our studies.
environment and changes in the competitive landscape, so that Research and development activities opportunities and challenges to our are managed on a Group-wide basis.
The Board Revenues generated through successful and Leadership Team review corporate commercialisation of programmes are strategy and plans in light of this information.
Strategic corporate included within the relevant operating priorities are defined for the shortand segments.
medium-term, which are cascaded into divisional, team and individual goals Manufacturing: We manufacture the ovine polyclonal antibodies CroFab, and used for budget development.
DigiFab and AZD9773, which is partnered with AstraZeneca and is under development to treat severe 16 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Our marketplace currently approved product in this BTG bead revenues We choose to operate in niche markets indication.
and selected geographies within the BTG has acquired US and EU global healthcare market, which share 20.4m 11 12 1 commercial rights from Wellstat certain characteristics: 4.3m 10 11 Therapeutics Corporation, which The physician customer groups are relatively small and can be serviced is developing UTA.
by small sales forces and support BTG brachytherapy revenues functions.
Within Interventional Medicine, our Market sizes for particular marketed products are: Bead Block specialisms are generally modest and LC Bead, both used for 8.3m 11 12 1 and competition is often more embolising hypervascularised tumours 1.3m 10 11 limited.
and arteriovenous malformations: Products often address relatively DC Bead, used for chemoembolisation 1 Includes approximately two months of trading following the Biocompatibles acquisition.
small patient populations: hence of hypervascularised tumours: and the size and cost of clinical trials brachytherapy products, primarily to gain approval are manageable implantable seeds used to deliver for a company of BTGs scale and low-dose radiation to localised resources.
Reimbursement can usually be achieved as the products often We estimate, based on our own sales address unmet needs.
and published data from other manufacturers of interventional oncology Our current focus areas are Specialty products, that the global annual Pharmaceuticals, principally antidote aggregate sales of these products have products, and Interventional Medicine, experienced double-digit growth between principally interventional oncology 2007 and 2011 and reached about products for treating patients with $193m at the end of 2011.
We believe tumours in the liver and prostate.
the global market has the potential to reach $400m to $800m by 2020, with Within Specialty Pharmaceuticals, we growth driven by: clinical data leading have three marketed products: CroFab, to extended approved uses for the which is the only approved treatment products: geographic expansion, in for bites from North American pit viper particular into important Asian markets snakes: DigiFab, which is the only where penetration rates are currently approved and available product for very low: and product innovations that treating life-threatening toxicity resulting increase their usefulness to from treatment with digoxin: and interventional radiologists.
Voraxaze, which is the only approved treatment for life-threatening toxicity BTG seeks to differentiate itself from due to renal impairment resulting from competitors in the implantable oncology treatment with high-dose methotrexate.
device market in a number of ways.
We have designed our beads to have The market opportunity for these technical advantages over competing products relates to the number of products.
For example, we are developing incidents that occur the number of beads that are pre-loaded with snakebites for CroFab and the number chemotherapeutic agents that will of toxic events associated with digoxin eliminate the need for the pharmacist to and high-dose methotrexate use.
Annual load the beads in situ.
We recognise that data from high-quality clinical studies is revenue growth is anticipated to be in important to the physicians who manage the mid to high single digit range.
Higher patients with liver tumours, so we are growth in this franchise would result continuing to invest in such studies to from the addition of new approved products.
A potential future product generate data and to expand the addition is uridine triacetate UTA.
approved indications for our products.
This is under development for treating We also aim to provide the best customer toxicity associated with use of the service and follow-up in our sector.
There is no 17 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Business review The US remains one of the worlds Our relationships largest markets for healthcare products We operate in a highly regulated environment and are required to adhere and go-to-market costs are lower than to specific regulations in addition to the in other fragmented markets such as legal and regulatory frameworks that Europe.
Around 85% of BTGs total apply to most businesses.
Some of revenues are currently denominated in US dollars, making it our most important these relate to our relationships with geographic market although a proportion stakeholders in the medical supply chain of our dollar-denominated revenues, including doctors, government officials for example royalties on BeneFIX and and agencies, patients, trade bodies, Zytiga, derive from worldwide sales, suppliers and the worldwide media.
these are presented to BTG in dollars by a US-based licensee.
BTGs policy is straightforward in that we will uphold the law and all regulations For these reasons our strategy is to sell in territories where we work, and we will our products directly in the US, where act with transparency and integrity in our we now have sales forces in Specialty dealings with all our stakeholders.
Our Pharmaceuticals and Interventional Code of Conduct describes our approach Medicine.
Elsewhere, we currently sell in detail.
through distributors, but we will review this as we build our product portfolio and Our people our revenues outside of the US increase.
BTGs success relies on attracting and retaining talented people.
It is as While CroFab is used only in the important for us to employ people who US, DigiFab and Voraxaze have the adhere to our values as it is that they potential for worldwide sales.
We have have the right technical skills and recently gained approval for DigiFab experience.
We aim to foster a highin Canada, Switzerland and the UK and performance culture and have built following the US approval of Voraxaze, performance monitoring systems and we will work with other regulators to seek reward programmes to support that goal.
to make Voraxaze available in a range of territories.
We employ around 525 people in the UK, US, Australia and Germany, the majority We believe there is significant scope of whom are engaged in sales and to expand the geographic use of our marketing, research and development, bead products.
In Asia, the underlying manufacturing, corporate and support incidence of primary liver cancer is seven roles.
52% of our employees are female.
times higher than in Western countries, reflecting the higher incidence in Asia of For more information on our human hepatitis B and C, a major cause of liver resources policies see our corporate cancer.
Penetration of beads into Asian responsibility report on pages 30 to 34 markets is currently very low.
and our remuneration report on pages 61 to 75.
BTG is working with partners in key Asian markets to gain approvals and Sustainability reimbursement.
In Japan, we are We are building a business that we partnered with Eisai and a marketing believe is capable of delivering application is currently under review sustainable, profitable growth.
Our by the Japanese regulator.
In China our strategy for this is to continue to develop our business as a specialist healthcare partner is SciClone: a 40-patient study company focused on leadership in using the DC Bead loaded with Specialty Pharmaceuticals and doxorubicin has been completed, and Interventional Medicine.
we are in discussion with the Chinese regulator about additional requirements before we can submit a marketing Sustainability is being achieved through: authorisation application.
In South Korea, strategic planning, so we can respond to limited reimbursement has been opportunities and challenges: research achieved and in Taiwan we are seeking and development, to bring new products reimbursement approval.
to market and to expand the use of 18 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review existing products: business development, to acquire or in-license new products Revenue and programmes: financial discipline, to make efficient use of our resources to drive profitable growth and deliver shareholder value: and strong governance, so we conduct all our affairs in a responsible way.
197.0m 11 12 111.4m 10 11 Performance in 2011 12 We use financial and non-financial indicators to monitor company performance.
The key financial indicators are: revenue: gross margin: underlying operating profit: Gross profit and cash management.
Similar financial indicators are used in the Groups annual bonus scheme see the Remuneration report on pages 61 to 75.
140.7m 11 12 Each year the Board sets a number of corporate objectives which are cascaded 77.3m 10 11 into divisional, team and individual goals for the year.
Our progress against the objectives set for 2011 12 is as follows.
2011 12 objectives Performance Financial management Achieve revenue, gross margin, profit Delivered revenue of 197.0m and cash targets 10 11: 111.4m : gross margin of 71.4% 10 11: 69.4% : underlying operating profit of 54.0m 10 11: 1.7m : closing cash and equivalents 111.9m 10 11: 73.9m Deliver acquisition synergies Delivered acquisition synergies of 3.0m Specialty Pharmaceuticals Deliver production, revenue Achieved overall: contribution of and profit targets 39.4m Submit Voraxaze BLA Voraxaze US BLA submitted in June 2011 and approved in January 2012 Interventional Medicine Deliver production, revenue and profit Achieved overall: contribution targets for beads and brachytherapy of 6.8m products Ensure readiness to sell LC Bead Achieved: commenced selling directly in the US from 2012 LC Bead directly in the US in January 2012 Progress beads expansion Partially achieved: 40-person in Asian markets study completed in China: limited reimbursement achieved in South Korea Complete all treatments Achieved: all studies completed in PEM Phase III trials Licensing & Biotechnology Deliver targets from sale outNot achieved licensing of pipeline assets Develop CellMed R&D partnering Ongoing plans Meet R&D programme timelines Achieved Corporate Audit quality systems Achieved Audit global health and safety Achieved and environmental policies and procedures Grow company through product Achieved: UTA licensed from Wellstat acquisitions 19 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Business review Corporate priorities BTGs corporate medium-term goals are grouped into four categories: financial: delivering products for our customers and other stakeholders: enhancing internal processes and capabilities: learning and growth.
Many of the objectives span a number of annual reporting periods.
We will report progress against each goal annually.
Corporate objectives Financial management Achieve revenue, gross margin, profit and cash targets Delivering products for our key stakeholders Submit PEM NDA and prepare for commercial launch Build a leading position in the interventional oncology space Maintain leadership in antidote rescue therapies and expand Specialty Pharmaceuticals business Identify and acquire new products to complement existing franchises Internal processes capabilities Focus R&D activities to best support growth in Interventional Medicine and Specialty Pharmaceuticals businesses Be an excellent corporate citizen by embedding Compliance, Quality and Environment, Health and Safety EHS in all activities Learning and growth Enhance capabilities and capacity to support growth plans Define and implement global manufacturing strategy to support current business efficiently and deliver on growth strategy 20 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Uridine triacetate Specialty Pharmaceuticals This antidote is in clinical development for the treatment of accidental overexposure to 5-fluorouracil 5-FU.
We have acquired US and EU commercial rights from Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation.
