The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 19 Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial - Gearing may be used when appropriate in order to statements for the year ended 31st January 2012. increase potential returns to shareholders.
Such gearing will be long-term in nature and will operate Business Review within a range of 90% to 120% invested.
Business of the Company - The Company does not invest more than 15% of its The Company carries on business as an investment gross assets in other UK listed investment trust and was approved by HM Revenue & Customs companies including investment trusts.
as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, for the - The Company will not invest more than 10% of year ended 31st January 2011.
In the opinion of the assets in companies that themselves may invest Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted more than 15% of gross assets in UK listed its affairs so that it should continue to qualify as an investment companies.
investment trust under the HM Revenue & Customs qualifying rules.
Performance In the year to 31st January 2012, the Company Approval in previous years is subject to review produced a total return to shareholders of 12.2% should there be any subsequent enquiry under and a total return on net assets of 7.2%.
This Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
compares with the return on the Companys The Company is an investment company within the benchmark of 4.1%.
At 31st January 2012, the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. value of the Companys investment portfolio was The Company is not a close company for taxation 1,277 million.
The Investment Managers Report purposes.
on pages 6 to 9 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on investment A review of the Companys activities and prospects is activity within the Companys portfolio.
given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 5, and in the Investment Managers Report on pages6 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends to 9.
Gross total loss for the year amounted to 71.1 million 2011: 281.5 million return and net total loss after Investment Objective deducting interest, management expenses and taxation The Companys objective is to achieve long term amounted to 88.4 million 2011: 265.0 million return.
capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and Distributable income for the year amounted to smaller companies.
The Directors have declared quarterly interim dividends totalling 36.0p Investment Policies and Risk Management 2011: 36.0p per ordinary share for the year which In order to achieve its objective, the Company invests totalled 35.6 million 2011: 35.8 million.
The year end in a diversified portfolio and employs a Manager with revenue reserve after allowing for these dividends will a strong focus on research that enables it to identify amount to 15.6 million 2011: 19.5 million.
what it believes to be the most attractive stocks in the market.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board has sought to manage the Companys risk The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to by imposing various investment limits and monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
These limits and restrictions may be The principal KPIs are: varied at any time by the Board at its discretion.
Performance against the benchmark index Investment Limits and Restrictions This is the most important KPI by which - The Company invests in medium and smaller performance is judged.
companies which are listed mainly on the London Stock Exchange.
- At time of purchase the maximum exposure to any individual stock is 8% of gross assets.
- Investment growth is emphasised, with long-term dividend growth at least in line with inflation.
20 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report continued Share price discount to net asset value NAV per Performance relative to Benchmark Index share Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st January 2002 The Board operates a share repurchase 125 programme that seeks to address imbalances in 120 supply and demand of the Companys shares within the market and thereby reduce the 115 volatility and absolute level of the discount to 110 NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
The Mercantile share price total return.
10 The benchmark is represented by the grey horizontal line.
Source: Morningstar, Russell Mellon CAPS.
250 Total expense ratio TER 200 The TER represents the management fee and all 150 other operating expenses excluding finance costs, expressed as a percentage of the average of the 100 month end net assets during the year.
The The Mercantile net asset value total return.
Board reviews each year an analysis which shows The Mercantile share price total return.
a comparison of the Companys TER and its main Benchmark.
expenses with those of its peers.
Share Capital Performance against the Companys peers During the year the Company repurchased a total of The principal objective is to achieve capital 325,000 ordinary shares for cancellation.
This amount growth relative to the benchmark.
The Board also represented 0.33% of the issued share capital at the monitors the performance relative to a broad beginning of the year.
As the shares were range of competitor funds.
repurchased at a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV they enhanced the NAV of the remaining Performance attribution shares.
The Company has repurchased no further The purpose of performance attribution analysis shares for cancellation since the year end.
is to assess how the Company achieved its performance relative to its benchmark index, A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys shares will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming relative performance of the various components Annual General Meeting.
such as asset allocation and stock selection.
The Company did not issue any shares during the year Details of the attribution analysis for the year and has not issued any shares since the year end.
ended 31st January 2012 are given in the Investment Managers Report on page 8.
Principal Risks With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 21 Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate set out in the Corporate Governance report on investment strategy, for example asset allocation or pages 23 to 28. the level of gearing, may lead to underperformance Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs against the Companys benchmark index and peer accounting, dealing or payments systems or the companies, resulting in the Companys shares custodians records could prevent accurate trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages reporting and monitoring of the Companys these risks by diversification of investments financial position.
Details of how the Board through its investment restrictions and guidelines monitors the services provided by JPMAM and which are monitored and reported by the Manager.
its associates and the key elements designed to JPMAM provides the Directors with timely and provide effective risk management and internal accurate management information, including control are included within the Risk Management performance data and attribution analyses, revenue and Internal Control section of the Corporate estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder Governance report on pages 26 and 27. analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation Financial: The financial risks faced by the and results of the investment process with the Company include market price risk, interest rate Investment Managers, who attend all Board risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Bank meetings, and reviews data which show statistical counterparties are subject to daily credit analysis measures of the Companys risk profile.
The by the Manager and regular consideration at Investment Managers employ the Companys meetings of the Board.
In addition the Board gearing tactically, within a strategic range set by receives regular reports on the Managers the Board.
monitoring and mitigation of credit risks on share Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to transactions carried out by the Company.
Further qualify as an investment trust, the Company must details are disclosed in note 23 on pages 47 to 51. comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
Details of the Companys Future Developments approval are given under Business of the Clearly, the future development of the Company is Company above.
Were the Company to breach dependent upon the success of the Companys Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status investment strategy in the light of economic and equity and, as a consequence, gains within the market developments.
The Investment Managers Companys portfolio could be subject to Capital discuss the outlook in their report on page 9.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored by JPMAM and the Management of the Company results reported to the Board each month.
The The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Company must also comply with the provisions of Management UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed employed under a contract terminable on six months on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing notice, without penalty.
If the Company wishes to Rules and Disclosure & Transparency Rules terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance DTRs.
A breach of the Companies Act could of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
result in the Company and or the Directors being JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could provides banking, dealing and custodian services to result in the Companys shares being suspended the Company.
from listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services of its The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, to ensure compliance Manager on an annual basis, and confirms that it with The Companies Act and The UKLA Listing is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Rules.
Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The evaluation includes Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: consideration of investment strategy and process Details of the Companys compliance with of the Investment Managers, noting performance Corporate Governance best practice, including against the benchmark over the long term and the information on relations with shareholders, are support that the Company receives from JPMAM.
22 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report continued Management Fee The Nomination Committee and the Chairman, The management fee is charged at the rate of 0.5% having considered their qualifications, performance of the value of the Companys market capitalisation and contribution to the Board and its committees, and is calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
If the confirms that each Director proposed for re-election Company invests in funds managed or advised by or election continues to be effective and JPMAM, or any of its associated companies, they are demonstrates commitment to the role and the Board excluded from the calculation and therefore attract recommends to shareholders that they be re-elected no fee.
Going Concern Director Indemnification and Insurance The Directors believe that having considered the As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, Companys investment objective see page 19, risk the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is management policies see page 47, capital a qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by management policies and procedures see page 52, Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
This was in the nature of the portfolio and expenditure place throughout the financial year and also as at the projections, that the Company has adequate date of approval of these financial statements.
resources, an appropriate financial structure and An insurance policy is maintained by the Company suitable management arrangements in place to which indemnifies the Directors of the Company continue in operational existence for the foreseeable against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of future.
For these reasons, they consider that there is their duties.
There is no cover against fraudulent or reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going dishonest actions.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Payment Policy In the case of each of the persons who are Directors It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms of the Company at the time when this report was for all business and therefore there are no standard approved: payment terms.
In general, the Company agrees with a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is its suppliers the terms on which business will take no relevant audit information as defined in the place and it is the Companys policy to abide by Companies Act of which the Companys Auditors these terms.
As at 31st January 2012, the Company are unaware: and had no outstanding trade creditors.
b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that Directors he she ought to have taken as a Director in order The Directors of the Company during the year and to make himself herself aware of any relevant subsequent to the year end, together with their audit information as defined and to establish beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary share that the Companys Auditors are aware of that capital, were: information.
1st February The above confirmation is given and should be 2011 interpreted in accordance with the provisions of 31st January or at date of Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
2012 appointment Hamish Leslie Melville 30,000 30,000 Independent Auditors Sir Richard Beckett 4,100 4,100  LLP have expressed their The Right Hon.
willingness to continue in office as Auditors to the The Earl of Halifax 2,000 2,000 Company and resolutions proposing their re-appointment and authorising the Directors to Helen James 650 0 determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will Sandy Nairn 5,000 5,000 be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Charles Peel 33,100 33,100 Ian Russell 5,000 5,000 Annual General Meeting Jeremy Tigue0 0 Note: This section is important and requires your non-benefical holding immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should seek your own No changes in the above holdings have been personal financial advice from your stock broker, recorded at the date of this report.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23 bank manager, solicitor, or other financial advisor Recommendation authorised under the Financial Services and Markets The Board considers resolutions 10-13 are likely to Act 2000. promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as Resolutions relating to the following item of special a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend General Meeting: to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 79,850 shares Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory representing approximately 0.08% of the existing pre-emption rights resolutions 10 and 11 issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the full text of the resolutions are set out in the Notice AGM to issue up to 4,935,535 Ordinary shares for cash of Meeting on pages 53 to 55. up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,233,884 such amount being equivalent to 5% of the present Corporate Governance issued ordinary share capital as at the last practicable Compliance date before the publication of this document.
The full The Company is committed to high standards of text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of corporate governance.
This statement, together Meeting on pages 53 to 55.
This authority will expire with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2013 page 30, indicates how the Company has applied the unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
principles of good governance of the Financial It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code new shares to participants purchasing shares through the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs the JPMorgan savings products and also to other Code of Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, investors when the Directors consider that it is in the which complements the UK Corporate Governance best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues Code and provides a framework of best practice for are only made at prices greater than the net asset investment trusts.
value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and The Board is responsible for ensuring the spread the Companys administrative expenses, other appropriate level of corporate governance and than the management fee which is charged on the considers that the Company has complied with the value of the Companys market capitalisation, over a best practice provisions of the UK Corporate greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are Governance Code and the AIC Code throughout the available for investment in line with the Companys year under review, other than in respect of the investment policies.
The Company currently does not provisions relating to the appointment of a senior hold any shares in the capital of the Company in independent director and the engagement of an Treasury.
external recruitment consultancy, both of which are explained below.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation resolution 12 Role of the Board At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2011, A management agreement between the Company shareholders gave authority to the Company to and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the enable it to purchase up to 14.99% of its then issued Manager has authority.
This includes management share capital.
This authority will expire on 22nd of the Companys assets and the provision of November 2012 unless renewed by shareholders.
accounting, company secretarial, administration, The Directors consider that the renewing of the and some marketing services.
authority is in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a discount to All other matters are reserved for the approval of the the underlying net asset value NAV enhances the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the NAV of the remaining shares.
Board for decision has been approved.
This includes determination and monitoring of the Companys Approval of dividend policy resolution 13 investment objectives and policy and its future The Directors seek approval of the Companys strategic direction, gearing policy, management of dividend policy to continue to pay four quarterly the capital structure, appointment and removal of interim dividends, which in the year ended third party service providers, review of key 31st January 2012 have totalled 36 pence per share.
investment and financial data and the Companys corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
24 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report continued The Board has procedures in place to deal with of which are available for inspection on request at potential conflicts of interest and following the the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, has adopted The Board recommends the election and re-election of appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
the Directors who each seek election and re-election at It confirms that the procedures have operated this years AGM.
effectively during the year under review.
Induction and Training The Board meets at least quarterly during the year On appointment, the Manager and Company and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Secretary provide all Directors with induction Full and timely information is provided to the Board training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are provided on to enable it to function effectively and to allow changes in law and regulatory requirements that Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take encouraged to attend industry and other seminars independent professional advice if necessary and at covering issues relevant to investment trust the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the companies.
Regular reviews of the Directors training access that every Director has to the advice and needs are carried out by the Nomination Committee services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is by means of the evaluation process below.
responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and that Meetings and Committees Board procedures are followed.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to committees.
Details of membership of Board Composition committees are shown with the Directors profiles The Board, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, consists on pages 17 and 18.
Directors who are not members of eight non-executive Directors, all of whom are of Committees may attend at the invitation of the regarded by the Board as independent, including the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment, The table below details the number of Board, Audit business and financial skills and experience relevant to Committee and Nomination Committee meetings the Companys business and brief biographical details attended by each Director.
During the year there of each Director are set out on pages 17 and 18. were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee A review of Board composition and balance is included meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings.
as part of the annual performance evaluation of the Audit Nomination Board.
The Board has considered whether a senior Board Committee Committee independent director should be appointed and has Meetings Meetings Meetings concluded that, as the Board consists entirely of Director Attended Attended Attended non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
1 Hamish Leslie Melville52 2 Tenure Sir Richard Beckett 522 The Chairman, having been a Director of the Company The Right Hon.
for more than nine years, has retained his The Earl of Halifax522 independence by submitting to annual re-election.
2 Helen James 21 1 Directors are initially appointed until the following Sandy Nairn 42 1 Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys Charles Peel 522 Articles of Association, it is required that they be Ian Russell 522 elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, subject to the 3 Jeremy Tigue performance evaluation carried out each year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for each 1 Attended by invitation.
In accordance with the 2 Was appointed on 21st September 2011.
UK Corporate Governance Code, from 2011 onwards, 3 Was appointed on 26th March 2012.
Directors continuing in office have sought annual re-election.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in formal letters of appointment, copies The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25 Board Committees The Committee reviews the actions and judgements Nomination Committee of the Manager in relation to the half year and The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie annual accounts and the Companys compliance with Melville, consists of all the Directors and meets at the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It reviews the least annually to ensure that the Board has an terms of the management agreement and examines appropriate balance of skills and experience to carry the effectiveness of the Companys risk management out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose and internal control systems, receives information suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
from the Managers Compliance department and The appointment process takes account of the reviews the scope and results of the external audit, benefits of diversity, including gender.
its cost effectiveness, the balance of audit and non-audit services, and the independence and The Board has a wide network of contacts within the objectivity of the external auditors.
In the Directors field of financial services and beyond, and believes opinion, the Auditors are considered independent.
that the engagement of the services of an external recruitment consultancy is consequently unnecessary The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility at present, although this will be kept under review.
for making recommendations to the Board on the Ms Helen James was appointed during the course of re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
Mr Jeremy Tigue was appointed after year Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the end, on 26th March 2012.
Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Mr Charles Peel and The Right Honourable The Earl Report & Accounts are considered.
Having reviewed of Halifax will not seek re-election at the forthcoming the performance of the external auditors, the Annual General Meeting.
Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
The Board supported this The Board has engaged an independent consultant recommendation which will be put to shareholders at to conduct an evaluation of the Manager, its own the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
performance and that of its committees, the Chairman and individual Directors.
This evaluation was In order to safeguard the Auditors objectivity and endorsed by the Board and all recommendations, independence, any significant non-audit services are other than the appointment of a senior independent carried out through a partner other than the audit director, adopted see paragraph 2 under Board engagement partner where appropriate.
The independent consultant Representatives of the Companys auditors attend the engaged had no other connection with the Company.
Committee meeting at which the draft annual report and accounts are considered.
The Directors statement The Committee conducts an annual performance on the Companys system of risk management and evaluation, to ensure that all members of the Board internal control is set out on pages 26 and 27. have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
The Committee Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit also reviews Directors fees and makes Committee have written terms of reference which recommendations to the Board as and when define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies appropriate.
of which are available for inspection on the Companys website, on request at the Companys On an annual basis each Director submits a list registered office and at the Companys AGM.
of potential conflicts of interest for approval at the Nomination Committee meeting.
These are Relations with Shareholders considered carefully, taking into account the The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile circumstances surrounding them, and, if considered of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a appropriate, are approved for a period of one year.
full understanding of the Companys activities and performance and reports formally to shareholders four Audit Committee times a year by way of the Annual Report and The Audit Committee, chaired by Ian Russell, consists Accounts, Half Year Financial Report and two Interim of all the Directors other than the Chairman and Management Statements.
This is supplemented by the meets at least twice each year.
The members of the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, Committee consider that they have the requisite of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee for details of their qualifications see pages 17 and 18.
26 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report continued All shareholders have the opportunity, and are Number of Shareholders voting rights % encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and representatives AXA Investment of the Manager are available in person to meet with Managers UK Ltd 11,656,984 11.81 shareholders and answer questions.
In addition, a Brewin Dolphin Ltd 9,303,353 9.42 presentation is given by the Investment Managers Rathbone Investment who review the Companys performance.
During the Management Ltd 7,141,855 7.24 year the Companys brokers and the Investment 1 Chase Nominees Ltd 7,095,069 7.19 Managers hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware Investec Wealth & of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make Investment Ltd 5,135,921 5.20 themselves available as and when required to Quilter & Co Ltd 4,394,349 4.45 address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be JPMorgan Asset contacted through the Company Secretary whose Management UK Ltd 4,084,292 4.14 details are shown on page 57.
Legal & General Group Plc 3,420,532 3.47 The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is 1 Held on behalf of JPMAM Share Plan, ISA and SIPP participants.
published in time to give shareholders at least The rules concerning the appointment and 20 working days notice of the Annual General replacement of Directors, amendment of the Articles Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in of Association and powers to issue or buy back the advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Companys shares are contained in the Articles of questions via the Companys website or write to the Association of the Company and the Companies Acts.
Company Secretary at the address shown on page 57.
Details of the proxy voting position on each There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of resolution will be published on the Companys securities in the Company: no special rights with website shortly after the Annual General Meeting.
regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding Section 992 Companies Act 2006 their transfer known to the Company: no agreements The following disclosures are made in accordance which the Company is party to that affect its control with Section 992 Companies Act 2006. following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its directors concerning Capital Structure compensation for loss of office.
The Companys capital structure is summarised on Risk Management and Internal Control the inside front cover of this report.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to review the Voting Rights in the Companys shares effectiveness of the Companys system of risk As at 26th March 2012 being the latest business day management and internal control and to report to prior to the publication of this Notice, the Company's shareholders that they have done so.
This issued share capital consists of 98,710,719 Ordinary encompasses a review of all controls, which the shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total Board has identified as including business, financial, voting rights of the Company are 98,710,719. operational, compliance and risk management.
Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues The Directors are responsible for the Companys system Information about environmental matters, and social of risk management and internal control which is and community issues is set out on pages 27 and 28. designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain The Company has no employees.
proper accounting records and ensure that financial information used within the business, or published, Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights is reliable.
However, such a system can only be At the year end and the date of this report, the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of following had declared a notifiable interest in the failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can Companys voting rights: only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material mis-statement or loss.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 Since investment management, custody of assets and custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself all administrative services are provided to the independently reviewed: and Company by JPMAM and its associates, the the Directors review on a regular basis an Companys system of risk management and internal independent report on the risk management and control mainly consists of monitoring the services internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
provided by JPMAM and its associates, including the By the means of the procedures set out above, the operating controls established by them, to ensure Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness they meet the Companys business objectives.
There of the Companys system of risk management and is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and internal control for the year ended 31st January 2012, managing the significant risks faced by the Company and to the date of approval of this Annual Report see Principal Risks on pages 20 and 21.
has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report & During the course of its review of the system of risk Accounts and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
management and internal control, the Board has not The Company does not have an internal audit identified nor been advised of any failings or function of its own, but relies on the internal audit weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
This arrangement is kept under annual review.
The key elements designed to Corporate Governance and Voting Policy provide effective risk management and internal The Company delegates responsibility for voting to control are as follows: JPMAM.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy review by the Board of key investment and financial statements on corporate governance, voting policy data, including management accounts, revenue and social and environmental issues, which has been projections, analysis of transactions and performance reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Corporate Governance Management Agreement Appointment of a manager JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our and custodian regulated by the Financial Services investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly superior investment performance to our clients, we expect defined in a written agreement.
and encourage the companies in which we invest to Management Systems The Managers system of risk demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance management and internal control includes and best business practice.
We examine the share structure organisational agreements which clearly define the and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control as well as the board balance, oversight functions and procedures and systems.
These are monitored by remuneration policy.
These analyses then form the basis JPMAMs Compliance department which regularly of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
monitors compliance with FSA rules.
Proxy Voting Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted the Companys investment strategy and exposure to it as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of limits by the Board.
JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based The Board, either directly or through the Audit exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness of serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is the Companys system of risk management and practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings called by internal control by monitoring the operation of the companies in which we are invested.
key operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: Stewardship Engagement JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its reviews the terms of the management agreement clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the and receives regular reports from JPMAMs introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the Compliance department: responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of reviews reports on the risk management and investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: internal controls and the operations of its 28 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report continued publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: processes when making stock selection decisions and monitor their investee companies: promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan be willing to act collectively with other investors where Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing appropriate: social and environmental risk in project finance.
have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance voting record: and Guidelines are available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from report to clients.
JPMAMs website: JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments http: www.
co. uk and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
This also sets out its approach to the We believe that regular contact with the companies in which seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its we invest is central to our investment process and we also policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf voting record.
Social & Environmental By order of the Board JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, Company Secretary increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and 27th March 2012 environmental factors have the potential to impact the share Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists may be found on the respective organisations websites: within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG www.
co. uk team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
