DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the results of Borrowings are invested in equity and other markets when this is the Company for the year to 30 April 2012. considered to be appropriate on investment grounds.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, are discussed by the Board and Business Review Managers at every Board meeting and adjusted accordingly with Business and Status regard to the outlook.
New borrowings will not be taken out if this The Company is an investment company within the meaning of takes the level of effective equity gearing to over 30% of section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. shareholders funds.
Equity exposure will, on occasions, be below 100% of shareholders funds.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was approved as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Performance Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 30 April 2011, At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving HM Revenue and Customs into the Companys tax return.
opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted The key performance indicators used to measure the progress and its affairs so as to enable it to obtain such approval for the year performance of the Company over time are established industry ended 30 April 2012.
In accordance with recent changes to section measures and are as follows: 1158, the Company has obtained approval as an investment trust s THE MOVEMENT IN NET ASSET VALUE PER ORDINARY SHARE ON A TOTAL from HM Revenue and Customs for all accounting periods return basis: commencing on or after 1 May 2012. s THE MOVEMENT IN THE SHARE PRICE ON A TOTAL RETURN BASIS Objective The Companys objective is to invest internationally to achieve s THE DISCOUNT AND capital growth, which takes priority over income and dividends.
s THE TOTAL EXPENSE RATIO Investment Policy The five year record for the net asset value and share price Monks seeks to meet its objective of achieving capital growth performance compared to the FTSE World Index can be found on through investment principally in a portfolio of international quoted page 3 along with the five year record for the discount.
Equities are selected for their inclusion within the portfolio the total expense ratio can be found in the ten year record on page solely on the basis of the strength of the investment case.
17 along with other financial highlights.
In addition to the above, When investing, the Company is prepared to move freely between the Board also considers peer group comparative performance.
different markets as opportunities arise.
There are no limits to Results geographical or sector exposures, but these are reported to, and In the year to 30 April 2012 the net asset value total return with monitored by, the Board in order to ensure that adequate borrowings at fair value was minus 4.5% and the share price total diversication is achieved.
The equity portfolio is relatively return was minus 6.2%, compared to a return on the comparative concentrated for a global fund and, as at the financial year end, it index of minus 2.6%.
The discount of the share price to net asset contained 111 equity holdings including 15 investments in funds.
The number of holdings in equities and funds will typically be between 70 and 200.
A portfolio review by the Managers is given Dividends on pages 6 to 8 and the investments held at the year end are listed The Board recommends a final dividend of 3.45p per ordinary on pages 12 to 16. share which, together with the interim already paid, makes a total of 3.95p for the year.
Investment may also be made in funds open and closed-ended including those managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The maximum If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares permitted investment in UK listed investment companies in aggregate will be paid on 13 August 2012 to shareholders on the register at is 15% of gross assets.
Asset classes other than equities will be the close of business on 13 July 2012.
The ex-dividend date is 11 purchased from time to time including xed interest holdings, July 2012.
The Companys Registrar offers a Dividend Reinvestment unquoted securities and derivatives.
The Company may use Plan see page 51 and the final date for elections for this dividend derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio management is 23 July 2012. including reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in its Borrowings investments and protection against currency risk and to achieve The Company had two 40m debenture stocks in issue at the year capital growth.
The 40m 11% debenture was repaid on its maturity date of While there is a comparative index for the purpose of measuring 1 June 2012.
The Company also has a 40m xed rate loan and performance, no attention is paid to the composition of this index during the year it renewed its 40m one year oating rate loan when constructing the portfolio and the composition of the portfolio is facility.
Since March 2010, the Company has had in place a 40m likely to vary substantially from that of the index.
A long term view is 30 year interest rate swap.
Further details of the Companys taken and there may be periods when the net asset value per share borrowings are set out in notes 11 and 12 and on pages 45 and 46. declines both in absolute terms and relative to the comparative Review of the Year and Future Trends index.
Payment of dividends is secondary to achieving capital A review of the year and the investment outlook is contained in the growth.
The shares are not considered to be a suitable investment for Chairmans Statement and the Managers Portfolio Review on pages those seeking a regular or rising income.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19
