14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2012 The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report for the year ended 31 March 2012, which incorporates the Business Review and Corporate Governance Statement.
BUSINESS REVIEW Business and Status The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 as a public limited company under the Companies Act 2006 the Act registered number 3156676.
It is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Act and operates as an investment trust within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
HM Revenue & Customs has approved the Companys status as an investment trust in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011, subject to their being no subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
Life of the Company The Companys Articles of Association require that with effect from 2006 and every five years thereafter, the Company will propose an ordinary resolution to approve the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
The next occasion on which the Company must propose a similar ordinary resolution will be at the 2016 AGM.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity and fixed interest markets.
Investment Policy The Company invests mainly in UK equities and equity-related securities of UK-listed companies.
The Manager seeks to identify and invest in companies that offer a combination of good capital growth prospects with the ability to increase dividends over time.
The Manager may also invest up to 10% of gross assets in fixed income securities and up to 20% of gross assets in non-UK listed securities.
The Manager manages a portfolio that reflects his convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
The size of weightings will reflect the Managers view of the attractiveness of a security and the degree of conviction.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings gearing can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed limits on the Investment Policy, the most significant of which are the following: the Company will not invest more than 12% of its gross assets in any single investment: the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies: the Company will not invest more than 20% of its gross assets in non-UK listed securities: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in fixed interest securities: and borrowings may be used to raise equity exposure up to a maximum of 25% of net assets at the time of purchase where it is appropriate.
All of the above investment limits are taken at the time of acquisition.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 Results and Dividends On 31 March 2012, the mid-market price and the diluted net asset value NAV per ordinary share were 267.7p and 267.4p respectively.
The comparable figures at 31 March 2011 were 252.8p and 255.5p.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, three interim dividends of 2.4p each per share were paid on 30 September 2011, 28 December 2011 and 30 March 2012 respectively.
A fourth interim dividend of 3.2p per share has been declared for payment on 29 June 2012, giving a total dividend for the year of 10.4p 2011: 9.35p.
This represents an increase of 11.2% on the previous year.
Performance The Board reviews performance by reference to a number of Key Performance Indicators which include the following: Asset Performance Peer Group Performance Dividend Policy Premium Discount Ongoing Charges Asset Performance During the course of the year the NAV total return of the Company rose by 8.4% compared with a rise of 1.4% by the FTSE All-Share Index total return.
In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Company, the Board monitors the diluted NAV in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
However, the Managers aim is to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active investment management approach.
It is not the investment management teams philosophy to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as a benchmark for portfolio construction for the Company.
This approach can therefore result in a portfolio that is from time to time substantially different from the FTSE All-Share Index but has historically achieved significant outperformance of that index.
Peer Group Performance There were 21 investment trusts in the UK Growth and Income sector at 31 March 2012.
This group, however, is quite diverse in its investment policies and structures.
The Board monitors the performance of the Company in relation to both the sector as a whole and to those companies within it which the Board consider to be the peer group that most closely match its investment policy and structure.
As at 31 March 2012, within those companies ranked within the UK Growth and Income sector, the Company was ranked 6th over one year and 12th and 3rd over three and five years respectively by NAV performance source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
Dividend Policy It remains the Directors intention to distribute by way of dividend substantially all of the Companys net income after expenses and taxation.
The Manager aims to maximise total return from the portfolio.
The Manager believes in strong earnings growth and in the importance of dividends to total return.
The portfolio will typically command a yield premium to the market.
However, the pursuit of income is not a prime objective and dividend yields are not permitted to constrain investment decisions.
The Directors intend to maintain their existing policy of providing ordinary shareholders with real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term.
Premium Discount The Board monitors the premium discount at which the Companys ordinary shares trade in relation to the assets and how this compares to other investment trusts in the peer group.
During the year the Companys ordinary shares traded at both a discount and a premium.
The highest premium was 2.7% and the widest discount was 3.8%.
At the year end the premium was 0.1% 2011: discount 1.1%.
As at 31 March 2012, the average discount of the 21 investment trusts in the UK Growth and Income sector was 2.4% 2011: 4.2% source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board and Manager closely monitor movements in the Companys share price and dealings in the Companys shares.
In order to avoid significant overhang or shortage of ordinary shares in the market the Board asks shareholders to approve resolutions every year which allow for the repurchase of ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held as treasury shares and also their issuance.
This may assist in the management of the diluted discount.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
However, should the Board consider it to be in shareholders interests to do so, then it is the Boards policy to sell shares held as treasury shares on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The expenses of managing the Company are carefully monitored by the Board and the ongoing charges ratio provides a guide to the effect on performance of the annual operating costs.
The Board reviews expenditure using an annual budgetary process.
The ongoing charges ratio for the year were 1.00% 2011: 1.03% based on management fees excluding the performance fee and other expenses of 5,533,000 2011: 5,267,000.
Borrowings and Debt Gearing policy is under the control of the Board.
The maximum limit for gearing is 25% of total net assets measured at the time new borrowings are incurred for investment in companies where there are stock-specific opportunities.
The gearing is not an expression of confidence in the performance of the overall UK stock market, but rather an endorsement of the potential for selected securities.
In this respect both the Board and the Manager are content that the flexibility which the overdraft facility provides offers the most appropriate means of gearing, supplementing the longer-term gearing of the debenture stock.
The debenture was issued in July 1999, is secured by a floating charge over all the Companys assets and has a fixed rate of 6.125%.
It is redeemable in July 2014 and interest is payable on 8 January and 8 July.
Future Trends Details of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Investment Managers Report on pages 6 and 7.
Further details as to the risks affecting the Company are set out below Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Investment Objective There can be no guarantee that the Company will meet its investment objective.
Market Risk As at 31 March 2012, a majority the Companys investments were traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The prices of securities and the income derived from them are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and demand reflecting investor sentiment.
In addition, over the coming months there is the risk that European policy makers fail to restore market confidence by implementing an effective and lasting solution to the Eurozone crisis.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of investments held by the Company.
Investment Risk Bad performance of individual portfolio investments is mitigated as the Board has established guidelines to ensure that the Investment Policy of the Company is pursued by the portfolio manager who undertakes continual analysis of the fundamentals of all holdings and ensures that the Companys portfolio of investments is appropriately diversified.
The performance of the portfolio manager is carefully monitored by the Board and the continuation of the management contract is reviewed each year.
Past performance of the Company is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 A fuller discussion of the economic and market conditions facing the Company and the current and future performance of the portfolio of the Company are included in the Investment Managers Report on pages 6 and 7.
Shares The market value of the shares in the Company may not reflect their underlying net asset value NAV and may trade at a discount to it.
The Board and the Manager maintain an active dialogue with the aim of ensuring that the market rating of the Companys shares reflects the underlying NAV and there are in place both share repurchase and issuance facilities to help the management of this process.
As at 31 March 2012 shares in the Company traded at a premium of 0.1% 2011: discount 1.1%.
The value of an investment in the Company and the income derived from that investment may go down as well as up and an investor may not get back the amount invested.
While it is the intention of the Directors to pay dividends to shareholders quarterly, the ability to do so will depend upon the level of income received from securities and the timing of receipt of such income by the Company.
Accordingly, the amount of quarterly dividends paid to shareholders may fluctuate.
Any change in the tax or accounting treatment of dividends or other investment income received by the Company may also affect the level of dividend paid on the shares in future years.
Gearing Whilst the use of borrowings by the Company should enhance the total return on the ordinary shares where the return on the Companys underlying securities is rising and exceeds the cost of borrowing, it will have the opposite effect where the underlying return is falling.
Regulatory The Company is subject to various laws and regulations by virtue of its status as a public limited company registered under section 833 of the Act, its status as an investment trust, and its listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority.
Loss of investment trust status for tax purposes could lead to the Company being subject to tax on the realised capital profits on the sale of its investments.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules could lead to suspension from the Official List, a fine or qualified audit report.
Other control failures, either by the Manager or any other of the Companys service providers, could result in operational or reputational problems, erroneous disclosures or loss of assets through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
The Manager reviews compliance with tax and other financial regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
All transactions, income and expenditure are reported to the Board.
The Board regularly considers all perceived risks and the measures in place to control them.
The Board ensures that satisfactory assurances are received from service providers.
The Managers Compliance and internal Audit Officers produce reports regularly for review by the Companys Audit Committee.
Reliance on Third Party Service Providers The Company has no employees and the Directors have all been appointed on a non-executive basis.
The Company is reliant upon the performance of third party service providers for its executive function.
The Companys most significant contract is with the Manager, to whom responsibility both for the Companys portfolio and for the provision of company secretarial and administrative services are delegated.
The Company has other contractual arrangements with third parties to act as Auditor, Registrar, Custodian and Broker.
Failure by any service provider to carry out its obligations to the Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company to successfully pursue its investment policy and expose the Company to reputational risk.
In particular, the Manager performs services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
The Manager may be exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures, negative publicity and press speculation, whether or not it is valid, will harm its reputation.
Any damage to the reputation of the Manager could result in counterparties and third parties being unwilling to deal with the Manager and by extension the Company.
This could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Company to pursue its investment policy.
18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board seeks to manage these risks in a number of ways: The Manager monitors the performance of all third party providers in relation to agreed service standards on a regular basis, and any issues and concerns are dealt with promptly and reported to the Board.
The Manager formally reviews the performance of all third party providers and reports to the Board on an annual basis.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at every board meeting and otherwise as appropriate.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the management contract formally once a year.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of Mark Barnett, who has worked in equity markets since 1992 and has been the portfolio manager of the Company since 1999.
The Board has adopted guidelines within which the portfolio manager is permitted wide discretion.
Any proposed variation outside these guidelines is referred to the Board and the guidelines themselves are reviewed at every board meeting.
The risk that the portfolio manager might be incapacitated or otherwise unavailable is mitigated by the fact that he works within, and is supported by, the wider Invesco Perpetual UK Equity team.
Other Risks The Company may be exposed to other business and strategic risks in the future, including fiscal, legal or regulatory changes, and the perceived impact of the designated Investment Manager ceasing to be involved with the Company.
The instruments in which the Companys cash positions are invested are reviewed by the Board to ensure liquidity and concentration risks are adequately managed.
Where an Invesco Group vehicle is utilised, it is assessed for suitability against other similar investment options.
There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership offers sufficient knowledge and experience to, as far as possible, assess and anticipate these risks.
Audit Information The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
