CANADA We are Canadas third largest general insurer, and with our latest acquisition, LUnion Canadienne, the insurer with the broadest national Personal and Commercial proposition STRATEGY launched in 2011, with robust new business In Canada, our strategy is to deliver growth and significantly improved response sustainable, profitable growth: times for our broker partners.
r Maintaining leading positions in segments In terms of underwriting result, where we have strong technical Commercial lines delivered another strong knowledge and expertise: performance with an underwriting profit r Extracting value from strategic acquisitions of 55m 2011: 42m and a COR of 88.2% that provide us with scale in desirable 2011: 89.8% driven primarily by Large geographic and specialty markets: Commercial & Specialty.
r Delivering differentiated propositions and Personal lines targeted solutions to our broker partners Net written premiums grew 7% at constant and customers: and This was another solid year exchange 8% as reported to 1,090m r Fostering world-class broker relationships.
driven by strong growth across both for Canada, strengthening Johnson and Personal Broker.
Personal lines our number three position 2012 OVERVIEW delivered a COR of 96.1% 2011: 92.3% and in the market with topline In 2012, our Canadian business continued an underwriting result of 43m 2011: 74m, growth of 8% to perform strongly through a combination including the identification and resolution of of acquisitions and organic growth despite adverse development in bodily injury and Rowan Saunders, challenging market conditions.
accident benefits reserves in the pre-reform Chief Executive, Canada Johnson Ontario motor book.
Net written premiums grew by 8% at constant exchange 9% as reported to Personal Broker 1,614m, driven by strong organic growth, Premiums grew by 9% at constant exchange particularly within Commercial lines, and 10% as reported, largely driven by our acquisitions, most notably LUnion Canadienne expansion into Quebec and growth in the in the province of Quebec.
The underwriting Ontario and Western regions of our result was a robust 98m 2011: 116m and property portfolio.
the COR was 93.7% 2011: 91.6% despite another year of above average severe In June we announced the acquisition weather, and the specific strengthening of LUnion Canadienne, a Quebec-based of prior year reserves in Personal Motor.
intermediated insurer mainly focused on Personal lines.
This moved us from the Through a series of acquisitions in eleventh to the fifth largest insurer in that recent years, our Canadian business province.
Quebec is the second largest is now positioned as the insurer with private insurance market in Canada, and the broadest national Personal and the most profitable, with a stable regulatory Commercial proposition in Canada.
environment and opportunities for future growth.
The acquisition closed on 1 October, Commercial lines and integration is progressing according Net written premiums grew by 11% to plan.
at both reported and constant exchange to 524m as we continue to extract value Our Personal Specialty Insurance PSI from the GCAN acquisition, with significant offering had strong contributions from each new business growth within the Large of its Auto, Travel and Credit Card portfolios.
Commercial & Specialty division, We expect to launch a Pet offering to the specifically property, despite continued Canadian marketplace in 2013, which soft market conditions.
positions us well for future growth.
New business growth in Ontario and Johnson Western regions also added to the years Growth of 5% at constant exchange result, as did solid retention across Motor 6% as reported to 587m, was due largely and our Equipment Breakdown offering.
to strong performances in the Atlantic and Western regions, the completion of two We continue to see positive results from acquisitions, and the addition of 23 new our small-business e-trading platform affinity partners during the year.
20 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW MARKET CONDITIONS HIGHLIGHTS Canada continues to weather the global Net written premiums m r Strengthened our position as third largest economic downturn well relative to other 1,614 insurer in Canada 1,483 parts of the world, with GDP growth, 1,245 while low, remaining in positive territory.
r NWP growth of 8% to 1.6bn at constant 1,021 The Canadian dollar maintained its strong exchange 9% as reported 884 performance against major currencies, r Commercial lines NWP growth of 11% and employment rates are stable.
at both reported and constant exchange as we continued to extract value from CUSTOMER our GCAN acquisition in 2011 We saw excellent growth with global brokers in 2012, and the launch of our r Johnson growth of 5% at constant recognition programme for top national exchange 6% as reported with 23 new brokers has gained traction in securing 2012 net written premiums % affinity partners and two acquisitions volume.
At Johnson, we continue to r Personal Broker NWP growth of 9% make strategic investments to influence at constant exchange 10% as reported our customer and eBusiness strategies, driven by Household building on an already exceptional customer service platform.
1,614m r Underwriting result of 98m and Johnson 36 COR of 93.7% PEOPLE Personal Broker 31 r Acquisition of LUnion Canadienne We maintained our status as a top quartile Commercial 33 in Quebec.
engagement employer in the Canadian marketplace, and Johnson was recognised as a Top 100 Employer in Canada for the fourth consecutive year.
Combined operating ratio % 93.7 93.5 TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE 92.9 92.8 In 2012, we launched the Canadian 91.6 Technical Academy to ensure we have consistent technical capabilities across the business to sustain profitable growth.
We continue to leverage our technical expertise across Large Commercial & Specialty to deliver targeted segmentspecific solutions to our clients.
Underwriting result m OUTLOOK 116 2012 was another strong year for us in 98 Canada.
With the completion of LUnion 80 Canadienne we solidified our position 63 57 as the third largest insurer in Canada and diversified our geographic footprint.
Successfully integrating and driving value from this acquisition will be a priority in 2013, as is fully leveraging the competitive advantage of our multi-channel distribution strategy.
We are confident of delivering another year of strong growth and sustained profitability in 2013.
