SCANDINAVIA We are the third largest insurer in Denmark and Sweden, with a growing presence in Norway STRATEGY SWEDEN Our Scandinavian business has been Our Swedish business continues to deliver a key driver of the Groups profitability a strong result with 3% growth at constant in recent years.
Going forward, we expect exchange flat as reported.
At the same to continue to deliver a strong underwriting time we managed to improve our already result.
We will protect our leading positions strong current year underwriting result in areas such as Motor, Personal Accident by 5%.
These results are driven by our and Renewable Energy while improving Personal lines products Motor & Personal profitability in Denmark and Norway.
Accident, but we are also seeing a significant Scandinavia also plans to fully capitalise improvement within our Commercial lines on the opportunities in Specialty and with products particularly in Liability.
global brokers that arise from being the only scale player in the region with a DENMARK Scandinavia continues global presence.
In Denmark our main focus has been on profitability, and we improved the to contribute strongly to the Reflecting this, the strategic priorities underwriting result in both Personal and Groups result.
We have seen set by the management team include: Commercial lines with the overall Danish excellent underwriting business delivering an underwriting profit r Increase growth in each of our businesses profitability in 2012 of 75m in 2012 compared to a loss of and strengthen profitability, with a 11m in 2011.
This was driven mainly by our particular focus on Care, Personal Mike Holliday-Williams, Commercial Motor and Liability products, Accident and Specialty: Chief Executive, Scandinavia with our Personal Motor and Household r Improve the customer experience.
Driving products also delivering strongly.
Premiums improvements to our processes and in Denmark were down 2% at constant communication will enable us to retain exchange 8% decline as reported, driven our existing customers and improve our mainly by our focus on profitability in customer proposition to target new ones: Commercial lines.
We are NORWAY investing in new policy administration and In Norway, once again, we saw double claims systems and online capabilities that digit growth with premiums up 23% at will make it easier for customers to deal constant exchange up 19% as reported.
This will also allow us to simplify This was driven by 39% growth in our the business and further optimise our Commercial lines business, with Personal expense base: lines delivering double digit growth of r Invest in our people.
Our underwriting result in Norway improve our overall people engagement.
improved from a loss of 15m in 2011 We will also invest in leadership and to a profit of 5m in 2012. technical training for our people.
MARKET CONDITIONS 2012 OVERVIEW Throughout 2012 trading conditions In 2012 our Scandinavian businesses remained challenging in Scandinavia performed very strongly.
Net written especially in Denmark and Sweden.
premium grew by 3% at constant exchange However, the Scandinavian insurance down 2% as reported despite a tough market remains stable and attractive.
Once again we delivered a strong underwriting result of We are focused on profitability and cost 237m driven by a very strong current year reduction, and are continuing to deliver performance in all countries, and an overall strong profitability and with good top line COR of 86.6%.
momentum in our target growth areas.
18 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW CUSTOMER We are committed to embedding our Rate movement % Underwriting result m Think!Customer strategy and a customer 264 mindset in all parts of the business.
254 12 242 237 A key focus of our strategy is to understand 190 the customers needs and requirements 5 4 and adapt our service and propositions 3 to meet their expectations.
We have 1 refreshed the content of customer letters, our online sales flow has been improved, and the phone systems in our call centres Personal Motor have been updated to improve our Personal Household customers experience.
Another example Commercial Motor HIGHLIGHTS of our customer focus is the alignment of Commercial Liability r Total NWP growth of 3% at the Corporate Responsibility agenda with Commercial Property constant exchange down 2% claims prevention activities such as free as reported to 1,791m SMS alerts about extreme weather and Movement in renewal rate for December 2012 v December 2011 have formed strategic partnerships with r Personal lines growth of 3% at the providers of security alarms and constant exchange down 1% as drainage contractors.
reported, driven by Household, Personal Accident and Danish Motor We are seeing positive results in our Net written premium growth r Commercial Lines NWP growth customer surveys as well asimproved of 2% at constant exchange down retention rates.
3% as reported driven by Renewable 3% at constant exchange Energy, Marine and Norway PEOPLE Staff engagement is important to the r An excellent underwriting result success of our business.
continued to invest in a wide range 2012 net written premiums m of technical, leadership and change management training for our staff and we have had great involvement in activities such as customer and health weeks.
1,791m Our staff engagement survey showed Sweden 961 a significant improvement again this year, Denmark 671 and the Scandinavian business now has Norway 159 a very strong engagement score.
Our Think!Customer strategy is also about focusing on people.
We have Combined operating ratio % implemented activities such as a company site on LinkedIn, recruitment videos and 88.3 improved introduction programmes to 86.6 86.2 ensure we recruit and retain people 85.4 85.4 with a real customer mindset.
2013 OUTLOOK The Scandinavian economies are heavily dependent on exports and are therefore suffering from weak international economic performance.
However, relatively stable labour markets in Scandinavian countries are sustaining domestic demand.
In 2013, real GDP growth is expected to remain positive but at a low level in Denmark and Sweden while high oil pricesand strong domestic demand in Norway will more than offset the international slowdown and the strong Norwegian Kroner.
Despite this environment, we are confident that we will deliver our strategy together with strong underwriting profitability in 2013.
