DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the financial A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is paid statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2012. to short term market trends when deciding policy.
This patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to shareholders Business Review long term advantage.
An average holding period for investments Business and Status of five years or more is targeted.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Investment may be made in xed interest securities, convertible section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. securities, funds, unquoted entities and other assets based on the The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was individual investment cases.
With prior approval of the Board, the approved as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31 March 2011, management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, transferring or subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by HM eliminating investment risk in its investment, including protection Revenue and Customs into the Companys tax return.
In the opinion of against currency risk and for investment purposes.
The primary the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so investment focus is on equity investments predominantly with good as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
Objective Exposures to any one entity are monitored regularly by the Board.
At the time of investment the maximum exposure to any one holding Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an Investment Trust.
The investment objective is to maximise total return, whilst also generating is limited to 8% of total assets.
A maximum of 40% of total assets may be invested in holdings individually exceeding 3% of total real dividend growth, from a focused and actively managed global restrictions do not apply to investment in unit trusts or portfolio.
The equity portfolio is relatively concentrated and assets.
These two OEICs, investments by way of rights issues or certain government investments are chosen on their long term merits rather than with bonds.
The maximum permitted investment in other UK listed reference to geographical asset allocation or the composition of an investment companies in aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
The Company aims to achieve a greater return than the FTSE All-World Index in sterling terms over a five year rolling period.
Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that investment considerations merit the Company taking a geared Investment Policy position to equities.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, Scottish Mortgage is a truly active fund and does not attempt to track both in absolute terms and relative to the peer group, are discussed its benchmark index.
Its objective is to maximise total return, whilst by the Board and Managers at every Board meeting.
The portion of also generating real dividend growth, from a focused and actively borrowings which is not invested in equities may be invested in xed managed global portfolio.
Investments are chosen for inclusion interest securities.
Apart from in exceptional circumstances the within the equity portfolio by looking closely at the merits of Company will not take out additional borrowings if, at the time of individual companies in a structured and rational fashion.
borrowing, this takes the level of effective gearing beyond 130% A global perspective is taken.
Asset allocation is the outcome of with net asset value calculated with borrowings at par value.
stock selection and not arrived at by making specic allocations The benchmark is a reference point for judging performance and to regions, industries or sectors.
Achieving diversication is a emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
The portfolio does requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained not set out to reproduce the index and there will be periods when approach is adopted and there are no xed limits set as to performance diverges signicantly from the benchmark.
Performance geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Levels of diversity against the benchmark is assessed primarily over a five year rolling achieved are monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
The number of equity holdings will typically range between Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found in 50 and 100 and are chosen from around the world.
the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Managers Review on pages 8 to 12.
A detailed analysis of the Companys investment portfolio is set out on pages 16 to 18.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Discount Borrowings The Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of shareholders There are four debentures in issue, all of which are listed and quoted to manage discount volatility and believes that the prime driver of on the London Stock Exchange and details of which are given on discounts over the longer term is performance.
The Board does not pages 42 and 48 to 50.
In addition, multi-currency loan facilities have a formal discount target at which shares will be bought back are in place which are also shown on page 42. as it believes that the announcement of specic targets is likely to During the year the Lloyds TSB Bank loan, which had drawings of hinder rather than help the successful execution of a buyback policy.
US$80 million and 59.8 million was repaid and a new three year Future buybacks will be considered primarily by reference to the 100 million multi-currency facility was entered into with National Companys discount relative to its peers.
Australia Bank which has been drawn down in US$.
During the year the Company bought back a total of 2,900,000 Review of the Year and Future Trends shares, all of which are held in treasury, increasing net asset value A review of the main features of the year and the investment outlook per share by 0.13%.
Between 1 April 2012 and the date of this is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review report no further shares have been bought back.
on pages 4, 5 and 8 to 12 respectively.
Performance Principal Risks and Uncertainties At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk its objectives.
comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the progress liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how and performance of the Company over time are established industry they are managed is contained in note 22 to the financial statements measures and are as follows: on pages 45 to 50. s THE MOVEMENT IN NET ASSET VALUE PER ORDINARY SHARE AFTER Other risks faced by the Company include the following: deducting borrowings at fair value : Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and s THE MOVEMENT IN THE SHARE PRICE regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualied audit s THE MOVEMENT OF NET ASSET VALUE AND SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE report.
Breach of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 compared to the Benchmark: could lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
s THE DISCOUNT AFTER DEDUCTING BORROWINGS AT FAIR VALUE The Managers monitor investment movements and the level of s THE TOTAL EXPENSE RATIO forecast income and expenditure to ensure the provisions of section 1158 are not breached.
Baillie Giffords heads of Business Risk & s EARNINGS PER SHARE AND Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide regular reports to the Audit s DIVIDEND PER SHARE Committee on Baillie Giffords monitoring programmes.
The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on pages Major regulatory change could impose unnecessary compliance 1, 2, 3 and 19. burdens on the Company or threaten the viability of the investment company structure.
In such circumstances representation is made to In addition to the above, the Board considers performance against ensure that the special circumstances of investment trusts are other companies within the AIC Global Growth Sector.
Results and Dividends Operational Financial Risk failure of the Managers accounting The net asset value per share after deducting borrowing at fair value systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to decreased by 5.8% during the year, compared to a decrease in the an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a benchmark of 2.9%: the discount was 7.9% at 31 March 2012. misappropriation of assets.
The Managers have a comprehensive The Board recommends a final dividend of 6.80p per ordinary business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of the share which, together with the interim of 6.20p already paid, makes business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
The a total of 13.00p for the year compared with 12.00p for the Board reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and the previous year.
reports by other key third party providers are reviewed by the If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares Managers on behalf of the Board.
will be paid on 2 July 2012 to shareholders on the register at the Discount Volatility the discount at which the Companys shares close of business on 1 June 2012.
The ex-dividend date is 30 May trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and the 2012.
Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
The Companys Registrars offer a Dividend Reinvestment Plan Gearing Risk the Company may borrow money for investment see page 51 and the final date for elections for this dividend purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify is 11 June 2012. the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21
