Annual Report 2012 Directors Report Business Review This Business Review provides shareholders and other readers with information about the Companys business and results in 2012 and looks forward to the year ahead.
It is divided into two sections: Corporate and Investment.
CORPORATE SECTION of long-term debt including preference Corporate Section Objectives and Strategy shares which can be deployed, hedged or Witans objective is to be the preferred neutralised with cash balances according Objectives and Strategy choice for wealth creation, delivering to our view of the outlook for markets.
Management Arrangements long-term capital growth and a rising It has a 50m short-term multi-currency Witans Benchmark real income to shareholders through borrowing facility to give additional Dividend Policy investment in global equity markets.
We have a policy of actively Market liquidity, Share Buy-backs Witan seeks to make money for managing gearing according to and Discount Policy shareholders, to do so more effectively investment conditions see Investment Marketing than its sector peers with similar Policy section on page 12.
Debt and Gearing Policy objectives and to achieve consistent Key Performance Indicators Management Arrangements outperformance of the global stock Principal Risks and Uncertainties The management of Witans portfolio is markets represented by its benchmark.
Witan Investment Services predominantly outsourced to third party Recognising the importance of dividends Priorities for 2013 investment managers around the world.
in the returns from equity investment, A small proportion is invested in Witan has a policy of seeking to increase Investment Section page 12 externally managed collective funds its dividend in real terms, ahead of CPI selected by Witans in-house executive Investment Policy inflation.
In addition, Witan seeks to management team the Executive in Portfolio Review attract new investors to buy the Trusts areas to complement the delegated remit The year in summary shares in order to help maintain liquidity of Witans external managers.
The Manager changes for shareholders.
Executive manages and controls these Use of derivatives Witans portfolio has a multi-manager relationships, recommends new Gearing management investment structure.
This approach managers when a change is appropriate Directly held investments allows us to select a range of high quality and advises the Board on all relevant Portfolio diversification fund managers with differing areas of investment and business matters.
The Investment Managers expertise from around the world often Executive is also responsible for adjusting Manager Review where the fund manager is not otherwise the overall risk appetite of the portfolio Portfolio breakdown available on the same terms or at all to within guidelines set by the Board and Outlook the UK investor.
This approach also aims for managing the subsidiary company, Witans Multi-Manager Approach to reduce the performance volatility Witan Investment Services Limited.
which can occur when employing a Changes to the investment manager single manager.
line-up during the year, along with other Your Board believes that active investment issues, are referred to in management of risk is essential in greater detail in the Investment Section investment.
This is particularly relevant on pages 12 to 21.
Our current managers when economic conditions are unsettled, are listed on page 13. as in recent years, but an adaptable Witan uses third parties for the approach is also appropriate in more supporting services it requires, including: positive times.
Where appropriate, we are also willing to employ innovative BNP Paribas Securities Services SA investment techniques and invest in BNPSS for global custody, diverse asset classes.
Investment trusts investment accounting and have the advantage of being able to administration.
borrow in order to improve performance Frostrow Capital LLP for company in rising markets.
Witan has 110 million secretarial services.
7 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued International Financial Data Services with the particular skills and expertise Dividend Policy IFDS Limited as the savings plan required to manage the affairs of an The Companys policy, subject to administrators of Witan Wisdom and investment trust company.
Given its circumstances, is to increase its Jump Savings.
outsourced model and small number dividend per share in real terms, ahead Cauldron Consulting for media relations.
of direct employees, the Group has of the CPI.
The Board believes that this Tangible Financial for advertising.
no specific policies in respect of should normally be funded from Towers Watson to monitor the market environmental or social and current year revenue earnings, if for managers.
necessary making use of revenue reserves to smooth variations in The Company also takes specialist Witans Benchmark incoming income from the portfolio.
Your Companys benchmark is a compliance advice on regulatory issues Although the regulations governing reference point for what shareholders and from time to time, as required, also investment companies now permit can expect in the long term from an procures professional advice in the areas dividends to be funded from capital investment in Witan, in terms of the of legal, investment consulting, financial reserves, the Company is not currently underlying investment structure of the and tax advice.
seeking to amend its Articles of portfolio and in performance.
Although Unlike other multi-manager services, we Association, which preclude the it is an equity benchmark, your Board do not levy an additional fee on top of distribution of capital reserves as reserves the right to invest in other assets, the underlying external managers fees dividends.
The Company believes it if appropriate, for better performance or and any negotiated savings in investment is important that its dividend payments capital preservation.
Since 1 October management fees directly reduce the are viewed as sustainable rather than 2007 the benchmark has been: costs for shareholders.
Your Board applies eroding capital and the accumulated 40% UK strict discipline over central corporate revenue reserve of 43.4m, representing 20% North America costs, as well as ensuring external 1.7 times the annual dividend already 20% Europe ex-UK investment management services are gives substantial flexibility to smooth 20% Asia Pacific.
the impact of occasional declines in This reflects a balance between the market dividend payments.
Our ongoing charges figure OCF, domestic exposure and international previously known as the Total Expense In accordance with this policy, for 2012, status of the UK market and a broadly Ratio reflects the recurring costs of the Board has declared a second interim spread exposure to growth in other running the Company, expressed as a dividend of 7.2 pence per share, to be regions of the world.
To assist shareholders percentage of average net assets.
This paid to shareholders on 28 March 2013, who may apply different benchmarks in was 0.69% in 2012, marginally lower making a total distribution for 2012 of evaluating comparative performance, we than that for 2011 0.71%.
This include performance information for performance fees paid to our managers represents an increase of 10%, some 7% other commonly used indices in the Key are included, the OCF was 0.97% in 2012 ahead of the rate of CPI to December Performance Indicators summary section 2011: 0.87%.
This is the 38th consecutive on page 2.
During 2012, the comparator performance was reflected in a higher year that the annual dividend has been indices were the FTSE All-Share Index payment for performance fees.
UK, the FTSE All-World North America figures should be evaluated against the Index, the FTSE All-World Europe ex The Company has decided to commence weighted average OCF for the AIC Global UK Index and the FTSE All-World Asia quarterly payment of dividends from Growth sector of 0.79% February 2013, Pacific Index.
The first three payments in respect excluding performance fees, or 0.82% source the performance data for indices on of any year will be made in June, including performance fees source: AIC competitive terms.
September and December at a rate which, and of 1.53% for the open-ended Global in the absence of unforeseen Growth sector source: IMA, Financial The benchmark provides a basis for circumstances, will be one quarter of the Express as at December 2012. assessing the long-term performance of total payment made in respect of the the Company although the portfolio is Since November 2005 the Company has previous financial year.
The fourth actively managed and not designed to had a lease on office premises at 14 Queen payment, the following March, will be a track any index.
Over shorter periods Annes Gate, London SW1H 9AA, which balancing amount, reflecting the performance can be expected to vary, is also the Companys registered office.
difference between the three payments sometimes considerably, from that of the The Companys policy towards its already made and the payment decided benchmark, while aiming for consistent employees is to attract and retain staff outperformance in the longer term.
8 Annual Report 2012 Market liquidity, Share Buy-backs Financial Advisers, given the increased The level of ongoing charges: costs and Discount Policy attention being paid to Investment Trusts are managed with the objective of Your Board places great importance on following the introduction of the Retail delivering a competitive ongoing the encouragement of a liquid market Distribution Review in January 2013. charges figure.
In recent years this in Witans shares on the stock exchange.
Further details of the Companys has been c. 0.70.8%, excluding A healthy two-way market enables marketing and investment information performance fees paid to investment initiatives are set out in the Marketing managers.
Where higher charges arise, shareholders to sell Witan shares at a Review on pages 70-71. these are carefully evaluated to assess price that reflects prevailing market value the net benefit for shareholders.
while potential new shareholders should Debt and Gearing Policy be able to invest with adequate market Witan has 110m of long-term debt Witans performance in 2012 against liquidity for their needs.
The Company consisting of debentures, secured bonds these indicators is shown on page 2, and also operates an active share buy-back and preference share capital.
The discussed in the Chairmans Statement policy, purchasing shares for cancellation Company also has a 50 million one year on pages 3 to 6 and the Investment when they stand at a significant discount facility, providing additional flexibility Section of the Business Review on pages to the net asset value excluding income, over the level of gearing, as well as 12 to 17.
The Board also regularly reviews with debt at market value, with the enabling the Company to borrow in absolute and relative volatility and risk objective of achieving a sustainable other currencies than sterling, if deemed statistics for the portfolio and evaluates discount of 10% or less subject to market appropriate.
Witan may either invest its employee performance against assigned conditions.
This policy has the direct borrowings fully, or neutralise the gearing personal targets.
effect of improving net asset value per effect with cash balances or the sale of Principal Risks and Uncertainties share with the additional strategic aims equity index futures according to its The Board has identified the key risks to of mitigating volatility in the discount view of the markets.
The Companys the Group which need to be managed and bringing the share price closer to the investment managers are not permitted and has collated them in a risk matrix net asset value.
to borrow within their portfolios but may document.
The risks relating to Witans hold cash if deemed appropriate.
The level of share buy-backs during 2012 subsidiary company, Witan Investment is referred to in detail in the Chairmans Key Performance Indicators Services Limited WIS, are separately Statement.
This activity not only Your Board assesses its performance in recorded.
The respective documents are generated an increase in net asset value meeting the Companys objective against reviewed and updated regularly by the per share of 0.1% but also helped to the following key performance indicators: relevant Board of directors.
reverse periods of widening discounts Net asset value total return and total The Board is conscious that it must occasioned by market conditions.
shareholder returns, for which regularly review the nature of its Marketing outperformance compared with corporate objectives and strategy to Witan operates a marketing programme Witans composite benchmark is a key ensure that both remain relevant and designed to stimulate interest in the objective.
appropriate in a changing financial Companys shares by explaining our Investment performance by the services and savings market.
This includes investment strategy and performance to individual managers, where scrutiny of investment policies, the role existing and potential new shareholders.
outperformance relative to the of marketing, the service offered by the This programme communicates with relevant benchmark is expected.
Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings private and professional investors, Annual growth in the dividend, schemes and wider industry trends.
financial advisers and intermediaries where the Companys policy is to These issues are reviewed at least using a range of media including direct achieve increases in real terms, ahead annually by the Board.
meetings, press interviews and of inflation subject to market The Groups key risks fall broadly under advertising through traditional media circumstances.
the following categories: and the internet.
In particular, the The discount to net asset value, Company aims to provide an informative where the objective is to achieve a 1.
Market and portfolio risks and easy to use web-site sustainable discount of 10% or less Witan has traditionally been a vehicle www.
com to enable investors and compared with the net asset value for UK and overseas equity investment.
their financial advisers to make informed excluding income, with debt at Whilst this does not preclude a more decisions about including Witan shares in market value and an annual diversified or defensive strategy during their investment portfolios.
This includes average of no more than 11% on periods of falling or turbulent markets, a section focused on the requirements of the same basis.
nonetheless a key risk of investing in 9 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued Witan is a general fall in equity prices.
implementing an appropriate asset Your Board takes its own regulatory The other generic risks, as with any allocation, with a portfolio that is responsibilities very seriously and reviews international equity portfolio, are the spread across a diverse range of the main points of compliance against overall investment strategy and the investment managers and investments.
Your Board also resulting exposure to country, currency, takes corporate, legal, compliance, These aspects are regularly reviewed, industrial sector, and stock specific risks.
accounting and tax advice as appropriate.
in addition to the extent of borrowings.
There are also risks associated with the Operationally the multi-manager During the year Witans Chief Executive choice of managers.
structure is robust, as the investment Officer CEO, Andrew Bell, managed Your Board seeks to manage these risks managers, the custodian and the fund the overall business and investment through: accountants keep their own records portfolio in accordance with limits and which are reconciled monthly.
restrictions determined by the Board.
appropriate asset allocation decisions, Management monitors the activities of all These include limits on the extent to with a broadly diversified equity third parties and reports any significant which borrowings may be used.
The investment remit issues to the Board.
Comprehensive Board regularly reviews the matters covers the UK, North America, Europe contractual obligations and delegated to executive management and and the Asia Pacific region.
indemnification provisions have been the CEO reports on compliance at each Investments are principally in listed put in place with each of the third party Board meeting.
Directors are provided thus tradable securities.
with comprehensive management weightings are reviewed in the information including investment context of the Companys diversified 4.
Accounting, legal and regulatory performance data, financial reports and benchmark at each board meeting, In order to qualify as an investment trust shareholder analyses.
The Board reviews while country weightings, which the Company must comply with sections investment strategy at each Board mainly arise from decisions on stock 1158-59 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 meeting, while also monitoring the selection, are assessed periodically as CTA.
A breach of these sections could implementation and results of the part of the manager review process.
result in the Company losing investment regular reviews of the competence investment process with the CEO.
The trust status and, as a consequence, capital and stock selection skills of our fund CEO regularly reviews reports and data gains realised within the Companys managers which monitor the portfolios principal portfolio would be subject to Corporation monitoring the economic outlook, Tax.
The criteria are monitored by the risk factors.
geo-political environment and stock CEO and reviewed at each board meeting.
Corporate governance and market conditions around the world The accounting rules affecting investment shareholder relations the application of relevant policies trusts were revised in 2012, affording Details of the Companys compliance on gearing and liquidity greater flexibility over portfolio structure, with corporate governance best practice, manager diversification, as the multithe use of derivatives for hedging and including information on relations with manager approach renders Witan less investment purposes and the ability to shareholders, are set out in the Corporate exposed to individual manager pay dividends from capital reserves.
The Governance Statement on pages 28 to 35. performance than with a Company carefully monitors compliance The Board conducts an annual internal conventionally structured portfolio with these updated rules.
review of the effectiveness of its delegating authority to the executive The Company must comply with the governance processes in managing the management team to manage risk provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Company and enabling it to evolve in actively, whether to preserve capital Companies Act, and, as the response to future challenges.
In line or capitalise on opportunities.
Companys shares are listed for trading with best practice, there is also a 3-yearly 2.
Investment activity and strategy risks on the London Stock Exchange, the external review, the most recent of which It is important that investment activities Company must also comply with the UK was conducted in late 2010. are managed in a disciplined and prudent Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and Operational and regulatory risks are way, to reduce the risk of falls in Witans Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
A breach regularly and extensively reviewed by portfolio value or underperformance of the Companies Act could result in the Witans Audit Committee.
Witan against the Companys benchmark index Company and or the directors being Investment Services Limited WIS is or its peer group.
Adverse performance fined or becoming the subject of could also result in the Companys shares subject to its own operating rules and criminal proceedings.
Breach of the trading on a wider discount.
The Board regulations and is regulated by the UKLA Rules could result in the seeks to manage these risks by Financial Services Authority FSA.
suspension of the Companys shares 10 Annual Report 2012 which would in turn lead to a breach of delivering returns to shareholders and The savings plans provided for WIS clients the provisions of the CTA.
are marketed under the Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings brands.
They currently have These legal and regulatory requirements 5.
Operational over 25,000 customers with assets of some offer significant protection for Many of the Groups operations are 220 million invested.
The Board relies on the CEO, outsourced to third parties, principally incurred by WIS which form part of the the Company Secretary and the Groups BNPSS.
Disruption to the accounting, charges paid by savings plan account professional advisers to ensure compliance payment systems or custody records holders are fees to the savings schemes with the CTA, the Companies Act and the operated by BNPSS could prevent the administrator, IFDS.
WIS is regulated by the FSA accurate reporting and monitoring of account fees for Jump were raised, to for the marketing and administration of the Companys financial position.
address the deficit between the costs of savings plans and the provision of Details of how the Board monitors the operating the savings plan and the investment advice to professional clients.
services provided by BNPSS and its revenue paid by account holders.
The savings plans are administered on other suppliers, and the key elements Previously, the deficit had been funded by behalf of WIS by International Financial designed to provide effective internal shareholders as a whole.
control, are explained further in the safeguards and transitional arrangements internal control section of the The implementation of the Retail were put in place for smaller accounts and Corporate Governance Statement.
Distribution Review RDR from 2013 others who wished to transfer elsewhere.
is expected to increase interest in Witan Investment Services WIS Priorities for 2013 Investment Company shares, given the Witan Investment Services Limited is a 2012 was a positive year for equity increased level of qualification amongst wholly-owned subsidiary of Witan markets, despite generally Financial Advisers and the ending of the Investment Trust plc.
It was established in disappointing news on economic practice of product providers principally March 2005 to provide investment growth.
Central banks have espoused open ended funds paying commission products and services and to give policies conducive to maintaining to buyers of their units.
The Company investment advice to professional economic growth, in the face of has taken steps to increase the range of investors.
It is authorised and regulated headwinds presented by the debt information on its web-site including by the FSA.
overhang from the last credit boom.
a section for Financial Advisers to help The principal activity of WIS is to provide This has encouraged investors to look inform the choices they make on behalf executive management services to the beyond short-term negative news.
In of their investors, further details of Boards of Witan Investment Trust plc 2013, the key priorities include: which are set out on pages 70-71.
Witan and Witan Pacific Investment Investment.
Set an appropriate The Alternative Investment Fund Trust plc Witan Pacific and stimulate strategic asset allocation to reflect Manager Directive AIFMD has finally interest in their shares.
changing opportunities in the world been passed by the European Parliament Its objectives are: economy.
Select and monitor and is due to become UK law by July suitable managers to deliver our 2013.
Although many of the issues to operate a reliable and efficient strategic objectives through a multicovered are already addressed by current investment savings platform for manager structure.
Continue to regulation, it will introduce changes in Witan and Witan Pacific investors deliver dividend growth ahead of the rules governing entities, such as to provide suitable advice to the inflation.
Witan, which are responsible for Boards of its corporate clients Regulatory change.
Achieve costmanaging investment funds including to minimise the net operating costs effective preparation to become organisations where aspects of the for Witan authorised under the AIFMD.
management are delegated and ensuring to seek appropriate business Communicate Witans active the safe custody of investors assets.
opportunities which can add value investment process to existing and The Company is reviewing the detail of for shareholders.
potential shareholders in particular the new regulations as they are finalised, WIS has two principal sources of income.
increasing the focus on improving with a view to becoming authorised These are savings plan revenues from under the Directive ahead of the information for personal investors compliance deadline.
It remains the transaction fees and annual management and financial advisers in the light of Companys policy to meet best practice in charges and the executive management the RDR.
complying with all applicable and marketing fees paid by its corporate Client service.
Provide good service regulations, as an important part of clients, Witan and Witan Pacific.
to the corporate and individual 11 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued clients of Witan Investment actual gearing was less than this 6.1%, Portfolio Review Services.
owing to cash holdings and a short The year in summary Business opportunities.
Seek 2012 began on a positive note, with position in the UK 10 year Gilt March business development opportunities widespread equity market gains after the 2013 futures contract.
where Witans multi-manager and market setbacks seen in 2011.
Growth Investment risk is managed through: Executive Management expertise indicators in the US had shown a can be applied beneficially.
healthier trend towards the end of 2011, diversification across global markets while the European Central Bank ECB selection of a range of investment INVESTMENT SECTION introduced generous funding terms for managers with different mandates Investment Policy the banking sector, which reduced fears monitoring and reviewing investment Witan invests primarily in global equities, that the management of the Euro crisis managers performance and portfolios so equity exposure is unlikely, in normal would spin out of control and create a conditions, to drop below 80% although active management of risk, taking sequel to the financial crisis which this does not preclude a more defensive account of asset allocation, currency followed Lehman Brothers bankruptcy in positioning in exceptional market exposures and gearing levels 2008.
There were also signs that the Bank conditions.
The Board is prepared to carefully controlled use of liquid, of Japan was contemplating more consider alternative investments when exchange-traded index futures.
aggressive monetary easing measures, appropriate.
During the year the Company invested with the adoption of an inflation target The Company has the power under its its assets with a view to spreading in February.
Articles of Association to borrow up to investment risk and in accordance with This rally lost momentum in March, 100% of the adjusted total of the investment policy as set out above.
In when signs emerged that economic shareholders funds, with the objective particular it has maintained a diversified growth was again slowing.
In practice the portfolio in terms of stocks, sectors and European countries which had Boards policy is not to allow gearing as geography, details of which appear on implemented fiscal austerity measures defined on page 2 to rise to more than pages 18 and 19.
The portfolio has been slipped into recession, fuelling renewed 20%, other than temporarily in actively managed by the investment concerns about the banking sector, exceptional circumstances.
Over the managers, in accordance with their particularly in Spain, in a further twist past five years it has varied between 0% individual mandates, with overall asset in the regions recurring crisis of and 15% and on occasion the Company allocation and risk being managed by has held a small net cash position.
Fears of Witans executive team.
The directors conflict with Iran led to a rise in oil the end of 2012, the Company had in have received regular reports on prices, the inflationary effects of which place 110 million of long-term debt investment activity and portfolio and 21 million of short-term were exacerbated by concerns over food borrowings equivalent in total to construction, both at and between the prices as a result of record drought 11.8% of shareholders funds, although regular meetings of the Board.
conditions in the US farming belt.
Performance for 2012 Performance since multi-manager inception 8 120 4 220 200 3 6 115 180 4 110 2 160 140 1 2 105 120 0 100 0 100 -1 -2 95 80 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Sep Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 NAV total return Share price total return NAV total return Share price total return debt at market value debt at market value NAV total return relative to the Benchmark right hand axis NAV total return relative to the Benchmark right hand axis Source: Datastream from 31 December 2011 to 31 December 2012 Source: Datastream from 30 September 2004 to 31 December 2012 12 Indexed Performance Indexed Performance Annual Report 2012 The table below shows the current investment management arrangements: Equity mandate Investment Manager Benchmark Investment style UK Artemis Investment Management FTSE All-Share Recovery special situations UK Lindsell Train FTSE All-Share Long-term growth from undervalued brands UK NewSmith Asset Management FTSE All-Share Flexible, thematic UK Smaller Companies Henderson Global Investors Hoare Govett Smaller Growth at an attractive Cos. ex investment price companies Global Southeastern Asset Management FTSE All-World Value Global MFS Investment Management FTSE All-World Growth at an attractive price Global Thomas White International FTSE All-World Diversified growth at a reasonable price Global Veritas Asset Management MSCI All-World Fundamental value, real return objective Global Lansdowne Partners Limited DJ Global Titans Concentrated,  investment in global developed markets Pan-European Marathon Asset FTSE All-World Capital cycles Management Developed Europe Asia Pacific Matthews International MSCI AC Asia Pacific Investment in companies including Japan Capital Management Free with attractive and growing dividend yields Emerging Markets Trilogy Global MSCI Emerging Markets Fundamental, growth Advisors orientated Directly-held Witan Executive team Witans composite equity Collective funds invested investments benchmark in mispriced assets, recovery situations or specialist assets Replaced Comgest from February 2013 Elsewhere, the UK economy slipped Equity markets proved fragile in the face and less concerned about inflation than into a period of recession, albeit mild, of these widespread disappointments and the previous year.
This helped to limit which disappointed hopes that 2012 had retraced the earlier rally by early investor fears, at the same time pushing would mark a recovery from weak June.
The selling was less severe than in certain government bond yields to their growth in 2011.
In Japan, official August 2011, since markets appeared to lowest levels in history.
The US, UK and enthusiasm for more radical policy have become battle-hardened in the face Germany saw 10 year bond yields fall measures did not last beyond the end of of the repetition of themes to which they below 2%, offering investors a yield lower the financial year in March, while had already reacted in 2011. than current and forecast inflation levels.
China was slower in reversing the Furthermore, it became increasingly The apparent absurdity of this in previous period of monetary tightening apparent that central banks were investment terms was overwhelmed by than investors wished.
committed to fostering economic growth the clamour to own assets perceived as 13 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued safe, where the eventual repayment at at the end of the year, the crucial issue estimates were under pressure for most of face value even if devalued by inflation of confidence had been addressed and, the year.
Evidence of economic progress was viewed as worth buying seemingly at for the time being, markets have acted is likely to be necessary to build on these any price relative to more volatile assets on the assumption that a Lehman 2 gains, despite the encouraging start to which were more lowly valued.
crisis rooted in a disintegrating Euro will 2013, although the ratings on equity be avoided.
Towards the end of the year, markets are low by historic standards if A gradual market recovery began in the signs of recovery in the US housing current levels of corporate profits can be the early summer, helped by reduced market became more consistent, Chinas sustained and offer premium returns expectations of air strikes on Irans economy appeared to have bottomed relative to those on cash and most nuclear facilities, and a consequent fall out and an eye-catching election in government bonds.
in oil prices, which alleviated the Japan saw the election of a leader who squeeze on consumers.
There were also Manager changes had called for the Bank of Japan to increasing signs that European leaders There was only one change to the list adopt a 2% inflation target and recognised that it was imperative to of managers during the year.
Lansdowne undertake unlimited monetary easing arrest speculation over fragmentation Partners was appointed to manage a until it was achieved.
of the Euro currency bloc and take steps new global portfolio for Witan.
This was to underpin the financial position of the Although these developments represent invested in their newly-established banks and the debtor countries in events rather than solutions to problems Developed Markets Strategy, which Southern Europe.
This culminated in a which are likely to take years to work seeks significant outperformance and watershed speech by the ECB Governor through, they provided a positive absolute returns from a highly Mario Draghi in which he declared he impetus which saw all major equity concentrated portfolio invested in larger would do whatever it takes to preserve markets deliver strong returns, in companies in global developed markets, the Euro.
Although the details of the aggregate more than erasing the falls of without regard to market weightings.
ECBs policy tools took further months the previous year.
This was largely a An allocation of 3% of assets was made to become clear and had not been used valuation shift, since corporate earnings to them in December.
Excluding cash balances held centrally by Witan and the unquoted investments.
The percentages are annualised where the inception date was before 2012.
14 Annual Report 2012 Since the year end, Matthews the year at -2.7% the 10-year gilt futures benchmark during 2012 after lagging in International Capital Management has position.
The Company takes full 2011 and represented 10.3% of assets at been appointed to manage a portfolio of account of the effect of the underlying the year end.
The portfolio was a net c. 9% of Witans assets, investing in their value of the futures contracts on its seller of assets during the year, although Asia Dividend Strategy covering the Asia gearing.
The value of the investments the list of investments was the same as at Pacific region, including Japan.
They which are traded on official exchanges the end of 2011.
The main investments replaced our previous Asia Pacific is fully marked to market every day.
were in listed private equity and related companies 3i Group, Electra Private manager whose remit excluded Japan, The use of futures has a number of Equity, Princess Private Equity and NB reflecting our belief that the regions benefits.
It enables Witan to increase or Distressed Debt Investment Fund, UK economies have become increasingly reduce its gearing at a known and domestic recovery Schroder Real Estate interdependent and that although Witan immediate price level, conferring tactical Investment Trust and Aberforth Geared has benefited from being substantially flexibility.
It also provides a means of Income Trust, two specialist sector funds underweight in Japan in recent years this adjusting asset allocation for example, Polar Capital Insurance fund and will not always be the case.
Rather than, by allocating investment to particular Ludgate Environmental Fund Limited as in 2012, using equity index futures to markets.
In both cases, the use of futures and the convertible bonds of Edinburgh raise exposure to Japan, alongside an Asia enables the adjustments to be made Dragon Investment Trust.
ex-Japan manager, we believe that having without interfering with the assigned a manager with the ability to allocate objectives for our investment managers, Portfolio diversification capital on the basis of stock-specific which are to pick stocks that will grow in In order to capture the changing attractions is preferable to predetermining value over the medium to long term and dynamics in the global economy and allocations to Japan and Asia separately.
provide stability against problems within individual countries, Witans portfolio is Use of Derivatives The operation of this investment area is well diversified across global stock Exchange-traded benchmark futures were the responsibility of the CEO, within markets and, importantly, across a range employed on a number of occasions guidelines set by the Board.
The principal objectives for are reported to the Board as they occur, manager portfolio, individual manager which they were used were to increase with the CEO being accountable for the returns vary, but in aggregate the exposure to the Japanese equity market financial results.
The Companys external outperformance at the portfolio level, where our managers had few stock managers are not permitted to make use together with the effect of gearing holdings in a way that mitigated the of derivatives or to gear their portfolios.
during a year of generally rising markets drag from the weak yen, and to reduce Gearing management meant that Witans net asset value total exposure to the risk of higher gilt yields.
Gearing was managed actively during the return of 15.6% outperformed the Exposure to the Japanese Nikkei index year.
Starting the year at 10.5%, it was benchmark 13.0%.
future was varied during the year reduced following the rally in the early Investment Managers according to market circumstances.
The months of the year and reduced again As set out in the table on page 13, the position was closed at a profit during with the sale of the Japanese equity portfolio consists of 12 separate external December, after a strong rally in the future position in December, to end the mandates managed by different fund market.
In March, the Company sold year at 6.1%.
Gearing was a significant management firms, in addition to the gilt futures to establish a short position benefit to performance during 2012, directly-held positions managed by the in the 10 year gilt market, on the view increasing the Companys exposure to CEO.
Each of the external managers is that the fall in yields to levels below the the positive market trend.
The Companys entitled to a base management fee, inflation rate was likely to prove policy is that gearing should be used calculated according to the value of the unsustainable and that this was a way to judiciously as a potentially effective tool assets under management, and or a benefit from a reversal of the move and to boost returns.
performance fee, calculated according to to mitigate the impact on the portfolio Directly held investments investment performance, relative to the from a future rise in bond yields.
During In 2010, the Company initiated a policy benchmark applicable to the investment the second quarter of the year, yields fell of making direct investments of up to mandate.
The fees for each of the further and remained lower for the 10% of assets in selected collective funds, segregated investment management balance of the year, so this position was with the management of this portfolio agreements are subject to a cap in respect loss-making during the year.
being the responsibility of the CEO.
This of each accounting year.
The agreements The underlying futures exposure varied portfolio, which was 9.8% of assets at the can be terminated on one months notice between -3% and 3% of assets, finishing end of 2011, outperformed Witans except one, for which a three month 15 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Business Review continued notice period applies.
One of the managing a portfolio of UK smaller and highlights the substantial diversification investment mandates is operated via a mid-cap companies, with a total return provided by our range of managers.
The fund, to simplify custody arrangements of 36.5%, 6.6% ahead of its benchmark objective of using active managers is to in emerging economies.
and Lindsell Train one of our UK outperform, which requires the portfolio managers which generated a total to differ from the benchmark.
Witans The base management fee rates in 2012 return of 22.6%, 10.3% ahead of the UK aggregated portfolio retains an individual ranged from nil to 0.9 % per annum and market benchmark.
Artemis achieved a character distinct from the main holdings the performance fees ranged from nil to total return of 19.5%, 7.2% ahead of the in the relevant indices.
20 per cent per annum of the relevant UK benchmark, while MFS stood out outperformance.
The performance fees Outlook amongst our global managers, with a are payable on a pro rata basis, after a The problems facing the world economy return of 19.1%, 7.1% ahead of its global minimum initial period of one year.
The remain similar to a year ago but the index benchmark.
average aggregate base management fee, process of economic convalescence in weighted according to the value of the The returns earned by all of our managers some developed economies is further funds under management, was 0.35% as during the year were positive and well advanced US housing being an at 31 December 2012 end 2011: 0.34%.
Six of our external example, while the framework for crisis On a similar basis, the average managers and the internally-managed management in Europe appears better portfolio of investment funds thought through.
Even though the performance fee is 11% of outperformance of the relevant benchmark, subject to outperformed their benchmarks, while internal stresses of the Euro currency capping of payments for any particular five of the external managers zone remain unresolved, the rich North year.
As an illustration, if our managers underperformed.
These included appears to have decided that buying time uniformly outperformed their Comgest, our Asia Pacific manager, who to help the poorer South to make benchmarks by 3% after base earned a total return of 6.7% during the adjustments is a better approach than management fees, this would generate a year but underperformed by 11.1%.
performance fee of 0.34% of net assets, Subsequent to the year end, we have Sentiment has become more positive giving total investment management fees changed the structure of our investment towards equity markets, reflecting the of 0.69%.
The actual fees payable will of management in the Asia region, to avoidance of some of the worst case course vary according both to the level of include Japan in the portfolio and scenarios envisaged at the end of 2011. appointed Matthews International performance and the variation in Markets rose in 2012 in the face of performance between managers with Capital Management for this mandate in downgraded expectations for economic higher or lower fees.
February 2013. growth and corporate earnings, Witan takes care to ensure the A strong recovery in the price of the listed anticipating an improvement in 2013. competitiveness of the fee rates it pays private equity holdings in particular This more optimistic mood has been helped the directly held portfolio to sustained in the early part of 2013. and that where higher fees are incurred they are supported by good performance, outperform during the year.
Although In absolute terms, after recent gains the from which shareholders benefit.
there was net selling, as some holdings near-term upside from equities appears were reduced into strength, the portfolio The Companys external investment lower than a year ago although if the ended 2012 at 10.3% of assets.
The two managers may use certain services which economic risks are under better control largest exposures were to 3i Group and to are paid for, or provided by, various investors may not insist on such high risk the ordinary shares and convertible premia for buying equities, particularly brokers.
In return, they may place bonds of Electra Private Equity.
business, including transactions relating given the sub-inflation returns on offer to the Company, with those brokers.
Portfolio breakdown from bank deposits and government The sector breakdown and regional bonds.
In this environment, a more Manager Review exposure for the aggregated portfolio is selective approach is likely to be required, The table on page 14 shows the shown on page 18.
A point to note is that since less return is on offer from a general performance of the individual equity the financials weighting is boosted by the levitation in the level of market indices managers for 2012 as well as since investment companies held as specialist and more depends upon the growth inception, compared with their direct investments.
The top 50 holdings prospects, business resilience and quality respective benchmarks.
across the whole of Witans portfolios are of management of individual companies.
The two best performers in absolute set out on page 19.
They represent 44.4% This is reflected in Witans increased terms during the year were Henderson of Witans portfolio 2011: 46.0%.
This focus on managers with greater thematic 16 Annual Report 2012 or stock-specific concentration in their and growth approaches, geographical portfolios.
exposure and secular growth versus cyclical trends with the intention of Witans Multi-Manager Approach profiting from the managers combined As referred to elsewhere in this report, ability to outperform over time.
Witan manages its portfolio using a The tables on pages 13 and 14 give a multi-manager approach.
This was summary of the range of styles amongst adopted in 2004, in the belief that no our current investment managers, the single investment manager was likely to proportion of Witans portfolio they excel in all asset classes over economic manage and their performance over the cycles or longer time periods.
Seeking to past year and since appointment.
Further employ managers to invest in their areas information is given on pages 20 and 21 of greatest competence has the potential regarding the managers history, the total both to improve returns and to reduce amount of investments they manage and risk relative to using a single manager their investment approach.
Our investment processes are focused on continuing to adapt to structural changes and themes in the global economy while being resilient against the shorter-term influences of economic cycles and shifts in investor sentiment.
The Board and the executive team are responsible for managing the portfolios asset allocation, choosing a suitable range of managers to use their stock selection skills to implement the strategy, designing appropriate incentives and monitoring performance against targets.
Witan selects its managers from amongst those whose processes, principles and performance commend them as longterm custodians of investors wealth.
We are seeking managers who can capture the longer-term growth rewards from equity investment by focusing on fundamental value rather than chasing short-term momentum.
This fits with a fundamental dictum of equity investment, that whilst in the short term markets are a voting machine affected by sentiment in the long term they are a weighing machine reflecting substance.
Central to this approach is the idea of balance.
Just as exposure to a single market or a small number of investments can lead to volatile performance, so can investing with a single manager or a group of managers with the same philosophy.
Witans approach aims to balance different factors such as value 17
