Performance | Business Review Research and Development The discovery and development of innovative, differentiated and commercially attractive medicines that make a real difference to the health of patients 2012 was a productive year for R&D and I look forward to working with the new SET members to improve productivity further in both cost and output, and to build our capabilities in order to restore AstraZeneca to a position of scientific leadership.
Pascal Soriot Chief Executive officer As a research-based biopharmaceutical a consistent, global platform dedicated company, we are committed to applying to conducting trials for small molecules and innovative science and technology to biologics.
It is accountable for delivering the invent, acquire, produce and distribute regulatory packages to support launches of 4 prescription medicines that make a new medicines that have a positive benefit Four major market approvals meaningful difference to peoples health risk prole that are commercially attractive Caprelsa, FluMist Quadrivalent, around the world.
This commitment is and reimbursable.
In addition to our dened Forxiga, Zinforo at the core of our R&D strategy.
It drives disease areas, we continuously assess our focus to create medicines that are opportunities to acquire, through purchase valued by patients and that also recognise or partnership, development and the needs of healthcare practitioners, commercialisation rights to compounds, governments, payers and other stakeholders targets and technologies.
3 In February 2012, as part of our accelerated We invest in high quality science while R&D strategy, we created a virtual developing a learning-based culture which Three positive Phase III investment neuroscience Innovative Medicines unit is built on high standards of leadership, decisions lesinurad following Virtual iMed made up of a team of ethics and transparency.
the acquisition of Ardea: also approximately 40 scientists conducting moxetumomab and brodalumab Focused R&D portfolio discovery and development externally We continue to prioritise our resources through a network of partners in academia and focus discovery activities on those and industry.
The team is based in our diseases within our existing Therapy Areas major neuroscience hubs US Cambridge, where we believe there is the greatest Massachusetts and the UK Cambridge potential to meet patient need through the and works closely with partners such 8 application of novel science.
This continual as the Karolinska Institute in Sweden process of prioritisation is designed Stockholm.
The implementation of the Eight out of 11 Phase III Registration to ensure that the projects we have Virtual iMed has resulted in the end of projects 73% sourced externally in our pipeline constitute the programmes R&D activity at two sites that focused on which we believe are most likely to deliver neuroscience: in Sweden Sdertlje and technical and commercial success.
For more information about the Virtual iMed please see the In 2012, we continued our research focus Neuroscience section of the Therapy on six Therapy Areas: Cardiovascular, Area Review at page 61.
Gastrointestinal, Neuroscience, Infection, Oncology and Respiratory & Inammation.
Development pipeline Early R&D efforts are conducted by our Our pipeline includes 84 projects of which small molecules Innovative Medicines 71 are in the clinical phase of development.
and biologics R&D groups, which are As shown in the Development projects responsible for discovery and development chart below, we now have a total of 29 up to and including Proof of Concept.
projects in Phase I, 25 projects in Phase II, Our Global Medicines Development GMD 11 projects in late-stage development, organisation progresses products through either in Phase III or under regulatory late-stage development, registration review, and we are running 19 significant and ongoing post-launch development life-cycle management projects.
The GMD organisation provides 30 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Development projects 1 2 2012 29 25 11 19 1 Includes five projects that are approved or launched in at least one market.
3 3 2 2011 29 24 10 23 Includes five projects that are either approved or launched in at least one market.
Includes three projects that 4 2010 34 32 9 17 are led in at least one market.
3 Includes seven projects that are 2009 44 34 11 14 approved or launched.
4 Includes seven life-cycle management projects re-introduced from Brazil, 2008 34 31 10 23 Russia, India, China, Mexico, Turkey and Japan.
Phase I Phase II Phase III Line Extensions Development projects For more information about our pipeline, An expansion of the diabetes alliance During 2012, across the clinical portfolio, including discontinued and completed with BMS in connection with BMSs acquisition of Amylin and the potential 36 projects successfully progressed to projects, see the Development Pipeline development and commercialisation of their next phase including 12 projects section from page 199.
Amylins portfolio of products related to entering first human testing.
The Pipeline Our R&D approach diabetes and other metabolic diseases, delivery table overleaf summarises the As demonstrated by the Life-cycle of a with a primary focus on a franchise of milestones for products in development medicine diagram on page 14, our R&D glucagon-like peptide 1 agonists GLP-1 passed in 2012.
Ten projects have activities span the entire life-cycle of a agonists for the treatment of Type 2 successfully completed development medicine.
Our approach brings together diabetes.
This includes Byetta exenatide activities and have now been launched in drug discoverers and developers within injection and Bydureon exenatide all relevant major markets.
Nineteen projects each Therapy Area to focus and collaborate extended release for injectable suspension, were withdrawn in 2012.
One project was in specic disease areas, while continuing both of which are approved for use in withdrawn following failure to obtain the to leverage our expertise in late-stage the US, Europe and Japan, and Symlin required regulatory or marketing approvals development, product registration and pramlintide acetate, an injected amylin for the product candidate or the facilities life-cycle management.
This model is analogue, which is approved in the US.
in which it is manufactured and 17 projects designed to promote accountability An innovative research alliance were withdrawn following poorer than and scientific knowledge-sharing within that brings four leading academic anticipated safety or efcacy results.
In addition, our R&D research laboratories together with One project was withdrawn due to the strategy enables more effective and AstraZeneca to study a major risk anticipated completion of the collaboration efficient delivery of our research objectives factor for Alzheimers disease, the which supported that project.
For more across the therapeutic portfolio, regardless apolipoprotein E4 genotype ApoE.
information about our pipeline, including of geography, disease area or stage The acquisition of a portfolio of discontinued and completed projects, see of development.
neuroscience assets from Link the Therapy Area Review and Development Partnering to improve health Medicine Corporation, a privately held Pipeline section from page 50 and page We know that we cannot address the biopharmaceutical company developing 199 respectively.
For information about the risks inherent in the clinical phase of challenges of healthcare alone and scientific potential new treatments for a range development, please see the Principal risks innovation does not exist solely within our of neurodegenerative diseases.
and uncertainties section from page 75. own research laboratories.
By engaging A collaboration with the diagnostics with partners across the healthcare delivery division of Roche to develop companion Portfolio quality spectrum, we can stimulate more creativity diagnostics for selected products in Our focus continues to be on identifying and better develop medicines and solutions development across all AstraZeneca key candidate medicines that have the for patients.
Our collaboration efforts have Therapy Areas.
highest potential to deliver technical and resulted in a combination of internally A worldwide exclusive licensing commercial success.
This includes an and externally sourced compounds agreement with Ardelyx in respect of annual assessment of our early portfolio throughout our portfolio, which include their NHE3 inhibitor programme for the projects.
By continuing to apply a rigorous development partnerships with biotechnology treatment of complications associated quality approach to our candidate selection rms, research institutions and other with end-stage renal disease ESRD process, we expect to increase the likelihood pharmaceutical companies.
We aim to and chronic kidney disease CKD.
that our most promising medicines progress source at least 40% of our pipeline from A collaboration with Ironwood to into Phase III development.
Our quality outside our laboratories and we continued co-develop and co-commercialise approach focuses on ensuring that every to deliver against this KPI in 2012 with linaclotide in China.
Linaclotide is a project in our pipeline has been assessed external partnerships positively impacting guanylate cyclase-C GC-C agonist for against a valid biological target, has sufficient our pipeline including: the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome exposure to demonstrate an effect on the with constipation IBS-C and chronic A collaboration with Amgen to jointly disease, and has a strong efcacy and safety idiopathic constipation CIC.
develop and commercialise five prole in the intended patient population.
A collaboration in China with WuXi monoclonal antibodies from Amgens Our Portfolio Investment Board PIB plays AppTec to develop and commercialise clinical inammation portfolio including an important role in maintaining portfolio MEDI5117, a biologic for autoimmune brodalumab.
It continuously evaluates our and inammatory diseases.
The acquisition of Ardea and their projects with the goal of maximising the Phase III development product candidate, value of our R&D investments.
More detail lesinurad, as a potential treatment for the relating to the PIBs responsibilities can be chronic management of hyperuricaemia found in the Corporate Governance Report in patients with gout.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 31 Performance | Business Review R&D spend analysis 2012 2011 2010 Discovery and early development % 60 56 73 Late-stage development % 40 44 27 1 Core R&D costs $m 4,452 5,033 4,219 1 Reported expenditure in our R&D organisation was $5.2 billion 2011: $5.5 billion: 2010: $5.3 billion.
Pipeline delivery Milestone Product 2012 Achievement Key pipeline progressions Phase III Brodalumab Phase III programme has commenced for brodalumab in psoriasis.
starts and first regulatory lings Zinforo ceftaroline fosamil Major market approvals European marketing authorisation for Zinforo, a new intravenous cephalosporin antibiotic, for the treatment of adult patients with complicated skin and soft tissue infections CSSTI or community acquired pneumonia CAP.
Caprelsa vandetanib European marketing authorisation for Caprelsa for the treatment of aggressive and symptomatic medullary thyroid cancer MTC in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease.
Caprelsa is the first approved treatment for advanced MTC in Europe.
FluMist Quadrivalent inuenza FDA approval for FluMist Quadrivalent in the prevention of inuenza.
This marks the first four-strain vaccine live, intra-nasal inuenza vaccine approved by the FDA.
Forxiga dapagliozin European marketing authorisation for Forxiga tablets for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes, as an adjunct to diet and exercise, in combination with other glucose-lowering medicinal products including insulin, and as a monotherapy in metformin intolerant patients.
A collaboration with the Cancer a goal to speed the discovery of essential Our resources Research Institute and the Ludwig new treatments for tuberculosis TB.
At the end of 2012, our R&D organisation Institute for Cancer Research to advance Formation of a non-profit organisation comprised approximately 9,800 people the research of immunotherapy in cancer.
called TransCelerate BioPharma Inc. at 10 principal centres in six countries.
Specically, the research will focus on along with nine other major In February 2012, we announced an clinical trials to test novel combinations pharmaceutical companies, to accelerate acceleration of our R&D transformation of immunotherapies, including three the development of new medicines by originally announced in 2010.
solving common challenges initially initiatives to cease R&D activities at our A strategic alliance with Isis related to clinical study execution.
site in Sweden Sdertlje, and close our Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Isis for the Continued activities to meet our laboratories in Canada Montreal, France discovery and development of novel commitment to health research through Reims and the US Mountain View, generation antisense therapeutics against our ongoing efforts with organisations California in 2012.
These initiatives have five cancer targets, which includes a such as the European Innovative impacted a total of approximately 2,200 licence to develop and commercialise Medicines Initiative aimed at improving positions across the R&D organisation.
ISIS-STAT3RX, a drug Isis is currently tools, technologies and methodologies.
Our approach to implementing such change evaluating in an early clinical trial in We have actively shared knowledge is outlined in the Managing change in our patients with advanced lymphomas.
through collaborations with the UK organisation section on page 45.
Further Medical Research Council and the World We continue to search for opportunities to details are also set out in the Our strategy Intellectual Property Organisation WIPO advance science and public health through section from page 20. for Neglected Tropical Diseases NTDs.
More information concerning NTDs can Our current R&D geographic footprint Initiatives that we announced in 2012 includes four main small molecule facilities be found in the Therapy Area Review include the following: in: the UK Alderley Park and Maccleseld : in the Infection section on page 58.
Sweden MIndal : and the US Waltham, A collaboration with other pharmaceutical Investing in capabilities Massachusetts.
We also have a clinical and biotechnology companies working A component of our R&D strategy is development facility in Japan Osaka.
Our alongside public partners in the strengthening four core capabilities.
principal sites for biologics and vaccines NewDrugs4BadBugs research In 2010, we announced an investment are in the US Gaithersburg, Maryland programme part of the European of more than $200 million over five years and in the UK Cambridge.
Our Wilmington, Commissions Action Plan Against to develop capabilities in the areas of the Rising Threats from Antimicrobial Delaware site in the US focuses on latepayer partnering, personalised healthcare, Resistance which is intended to boost stage development across the entire predictive science and clinical design.
the current industry-wide faltering therapeutic portfolio.
Our strategic expansion We have made significant progress discovery and development of new in Emerging Markets continues and includes in building these skills both internally antibiotics.
the ongoing growth of our research facilities and through external collaborations, A collaboration along with six other in China Shanghai and India Bangalore.
and they are now fully integrated into pharmaceutical companies and four most of our development programmes.
research institutions, working with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, with 32 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Patients in global AstraZeneca studies by geographic region 2012 % 20 12 5 6 Europe Japan 24 43 2 US Canada South Africa 11 4 13 11 Asia Pacic Latin America 23 24 2 Central Eastern Europe Other 100% small molecule studies 100% biologics studies In 2012, there was Core R&D expenditure Before a trial begins, we work to make continuous improvement, we work both of $4.5 billion in our R&D organisation 2011: sure that those taking part understand within AstraZeneca and the wider scientific $5 billion: 2010: $4.2 billion.
In addition, the nature and purpose of the research community to share the 3Rs knowledge $5,228 million was spent on acquiring and that proper procedure for gaining and learning.
product rights such as in-licensing 2011: informed consent is followed including The number of animals we use will continue $189 million: 2010: $1,017 million and we managing any special circumstances, such to vary because it depends on a number of invested approximately $791 million on the as different levels of literacy.
Protecting factors, including the amount of pre-clinical implementation of our R&D restructuring participants throughout the trial process research we are doing, the complexity of the strategy.
The allocations of spend by early is a core priority and we have strict diseases under investigation and regulatory development and late-stage activities procedures in place to ensure that they requirements.
We believe that, without our are presented in the R&D spend analysis are not exposed to any unnecessary risks.
active commitment to the 3Rs, our animal table opposite.
All our clinical studies are conceptually use would be much greater.
In 2012, we R&D ethics designed and nally interpreted in-house used approximately 304,000 animals in-house We want to be recognised for our high but a percentage of them are run for us 2011: 381,000.
In addition, approximately quality science and for the impact we by contract research organisations CROs.
14,000 animals were used by external can make on serious diseases, and In 2012, around 31% of patients in our CROs on our behalf 2011: 17,000.
Against to be trusted for the way we work.
Our small molecule studies and around 87% our 2012 target of more than 80%, 85% of standards of R&D ethics are global and of patients in our biologics studies were our externally-placed non-human primate apply to all AstraZeneca research activity, monitored by CROs on our behalf.
We studies met AstraZeneca standards in 2012. in all locations, whether conducted contractually require CROs to work to We will continue to progress towards our by us or on our behalf by third parties.
our global standards and we conduct 2013 target of 100% of our studies being risk-based audits to monitor compliance.
conducted in facilities meeting AstraZeneca Clinical trials required standards.
Our commitment: to deliver consistently Animal research high standards of ethical practice and Our commitment: to embrace, promote The welfare of the animals we use continues scientific conduct in all our trials worldwide and embed scientific and technical best to be a top priority and our Bioethics Policy and to public transparency on registration practice in animal research.
We routinely have and results of all clinical trials, whether inspections by government authorities of our Our objective: to drive continuous positive or negative.
External improvement internally and engage with CROs that conduct animal studies on our Our objective: to be recognised as an external providers on the implementation behalf are required to comply with our industry leader in the publication and of AstraZeneca global standards for global standards and we undertake audits sharing of clinical trial information.
non-human primate housing and care.
to ensure our expectations are being met.
These include the following targets: We conduct clinical trials at multiple During 2012, we developed, launched sites in several different countries regions roll-out of AstraZeneca Good Statistical and began implementation of standard as shown in the chart above.
A broad Practice GSP global standard and operating procedures and guidance geographic span helps us to ensure that associated compliance monitoring documents to underpin our new GSP those taking part in our studies reect the more than 80% of external providers global standard, developed in 2011.
These diversity of patients around the world for of AstraZeneca non-human primate apply to our internal animal research whom the new medicine is intended.
This research studies are operating to and the launch included extensive training approach also helps to identify the types AstraZeneca standards.
programmes for relevant scientists, of people for whom the treatment may be We remain committed to minimising our technical staff and managers across most beneficial.
use of animals in our research without the organisation.
Our global governance process for compromising the quality of the research determining where we place clinical trials data.
Wherever possible, we use non-animal Extract from 2012 Responsible Business Plan.
provides the framework for ensuring a methods, such as computer modelling, Further information on AstraZenecas approach to consistent approach worldwide.
We take that eliminate the need to use animals early responsible business can be found in the Responsible several factors into account, including the in drug development or reduce the number Business section from page 48 and on our website, astrazeneca.
availability of experienced and independent required.
We also work to rene our existing ethics committees and a robust regulatory methods.
This replacement, reduction regime, as well as sufficient numbers and renement of animal studies is known of trained healthcare professionals and as the 3Rs.
To support our drive for patients willing to participate in a trial.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 33 Performance | Business Review Patient safety including mechanisms for highlighting At a global level, every medicine in Our commitment: the safety of the patients those that require immediate attention.
development and on the market is allocated who take our medicines is of fundamental We also work to ensure that accurate, a Global Safety Physician and a team of importance to us.
well-informed and up-to-date information patient safety scientists.
In each of our concerning the safety prole of our drugs markets we also have dedicated safety Our objective: to enhance is provided to regulators, doctors, other managers with responsibility for patient pharmacovigilance awareness including healthcare professionals and, where safety at a local level.
the use of collaborative programmes to appropriate, patients.
share and use our knowledge and best Our Chief Medical officer has overall practice in order to improve reporting and A pharmacovigilance awareness accountability for the benefit risk proles patient safety in developing countries.
programme was developed in 2012 and of the products we have in development circulated to marketing companies, together and those on the market.
He provides All drugs have potential side effects and with guidance about how the information medical oversight and ensures that we aim to minimise the risks and maximise should be shared with regulatory authorities appropriate risk assessment processes the benets of each of our medicines in readiness for external enquiry.
One such are in place to enable informed decisions throughout the whole life-cycle of a opportunity arose when SFDA the Chinese to be made about safety as quickly medicine.
We continually monitor the health authority met UMC WHO Uppsala as possible.
use of all our medicines to ensure that Monitoring Centre and we were able to we become aware of any side effects not share our experience and thoughts around Extract from 2012 Responsible Business Plan.
identied during the development process.
This is known as pharmacovigilance and Further information on AstraZenecas approach to responsible business can be found in the Responsible is core to our ongoing responsibility to We have an experienced, in-house team Business section from page 48 and on our website, patients.
We have comprehensive and of clinical patient safety professionals astrazeneca.
rigorous systems in place for detecting dedicated to the task of ensuring that we and rapidly evaluating such effects, meet our commitment to patient safety.
Clinical trial transparency Our disclosure policy goes beyond Calls for open access to clinical data AstraZeneca has a long-standing legal requirements, which currently raise complex practical, legal and ethical commitment to making information require publication for Phase II studies issues around full disclosure of patient about our clinical research publicly available to enhance the scientific onwards only.
Decision makers, as well understanding of how our medicines From 15 January 2013, we are as academia and industry, have a duty work and in the medical interest of voluntarily disclosing the research to consider all the implications that could patients.
By the end of 2012, we had protocol for our clinical trials on arise from such proposals.
These include registered 2,050 clinical trials and .
com ensuring scientific rigour, safeguarding posted the results of 1,360 trials once a manuscript relating to an patient privacy and protecting innovation on a range of public websites including investigational or approved product and medical progress.
We are engaging our own dedicated clinical trials website, is published in a peer-reviewed with regulators, legislators, industry, and .
medical and scientific bodies to discuss the issues raised by the proposals to We publish information on the These disclosure requirements are routinely publish full clinical trial and registration and results of all new and set out in our Bioethics Policy and patient data so we can collectively identify ongoing  compliance is mandatory across practicable solutions that deliver real clinical trials for all products in all phases, the Group.
benets to medical science and patients.
including marketed medicines, drugs in We consider requests for patient-level development and drugs whose further data from other parties on a case-by-case development has been discontinued.
basis, following consistent criteria to We post results, irrespective of whether establish if, and how, the information they are favourable or unfavourable provided will be used for valid scientific to AstraZeneca.
purposes and to benefit patients.
34 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Intellectual Property A well-functioning system of intellectual property rights A period of patent protection is essential in allowing us to achieve a return on our investment in innovation.
Our challenge is to refresh our portfolio of patented products and offset the impact when that protection is lost.
Jeff Pott General Counsel The discovery and development of be to the validity of a patent and or to the the risks relating to patent litigation and a new medicine requires a significant effective scope of a patent and are based early loss and expiry of patents is contained investment of resources by research-based on ever-evolving legal precedents.
There can in the Principal risks and uncertainties pharmaceutical companies over a period be no guarantee of success for either party section from page 75. of 10 or more years.
For this to be a viable in patent proceedings.
For information Patent expiries investment, the results, new medicines, about third party challenges to the patents The tables overleaf set out certain patent must be safeguarded from being copied protecting our products, see Note 25 expiry dates and sales for our key marketed with a reasonable amount of certainty to the Financial Statements from page 184. products.
The expiry dates relate to the for a reasonable period of time.
The basic term of a patent is typically 20 basic substance patent relevant to that The principal economic safeguard in our years from the ling of the patent application product unless indicated otherwise.
The industry is a well-functioning patent system with the relevant government patent expiry dates shown include any PTE and that recognises our effort and rewards ofce.
However, the product protected Paediatric Exclusivity periods.
our innovation with appropriate protection, by a pharmaceutical patent may not be Data exclusivity allowing time to generate the revenue we marketed for several years after patent ling In addition to patent protection, Regulatory need to reinvest in new pharmaceutical due to the time required for clinical trials and Data Protection RDP or data exclusivity innovation.
Patent rights are limited by the regulatory approval process necessary is an important IP right which arises in territory and duration, yet a significant to obtain marketing approval for the product.
respect of data which is required to be period of this time can be spent on R&D Patent Term Extensions PTE are available submitted to regulatory authorities in order of our products before product launch.
in certain major markets including the EU to obtain marketing approvals for our Therefore, we commit significant resources and US to compensate for these delays.
significant investment is required to establishing and defending our patent The term of the PTE can vary from zero to generate such data for example, through and related IP protections for these inventions.
to five years depending on the time taken conducting global clinical trials and the to obtain any marketing approval.
The Patent process use of this proprietary data is protected maximum patent term, when including PTE, We le applications for patent protection from use by third parties such as generic cannot exceed 15 years EU or 14 years for our inventions to safeguard the large manufacturers for a number of years in US from the first marketing authorisation.
subsequent investment required to obtain a limited number of countries.
The period approval of potential new drugs for The generic industry is increasingly of such protection and the extent to which marketing.
Further innovation means that challenging innovators patents at the right is respected differs signicantly we may seek additional patent protection earlier stages and almost all leading between these countries.
We believe in as we develop a product and its uses.
pharmaceutical products in the US have enforcing our rights to RDP and consider We apply for patents via patent ofces faced or are facing patent challenges from it an important protection for our products, around the world which assess whether generic manufacturers.
The result of patent particularly as patent rights are increasingly our inventions meet the strict legal challenges experienced by our competitors being challenged.
requirements for a patent to be granted.
products may lead to the availability of The period of RDP starts from the date In some countries, our competitors can generics in the same product class as of the first marketing approval from the challenge our patents in the patent ofces, patented products we currently supply, relevant health authority and runs in parallel and, in all countries, competitors can which may materially impact our business.
to any pending patent protection.
RDP challenge our patents in the courts.
We are also experiencing increased would generally be expected to expire prior We can face challenges early in the patent challenges elsewhere in the world, for to patent expiry in all major markets.
application process and throughout the example in Europe, Canada, Asia and If a product takes an unusually long time life of the patent.
These challenges can Latin America.
Further information about AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 35 Performance | Business Review to secure marketing approval or if patent Compulsory licensing Intellectual Property Rights TRIPS protection has not been secured, has Compulsory licensing the over-ruling of including the Doha amendment in certain expired or has been lost, then RDP may be patent rights to allow patented medicines circumstances, such as a public health the sole IP right protecting a product from to be manufactured and sold by other emergency.
We believe that this should apply copying, as generics should not be allowed parties is increasingly being included in the only when all other ways of meeting the to rely on AstraZenecas data to support access to medicines debate.
We recognise emergency needs have been considered the generic products approval or marketing the right of developing countries to use the and where healthcare frameworks and until the RDP right has expired.
exibilities in the World Trade Organizations safeguards are in place to ensure that the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of medicines reach those who need them.
Patent expiries for our key marketed products US revenue $m # Key marketed products US patent expiry 2012 2011 2010 Atacand Expired 150 182 216 Crestor 2016 3,164 3,074 2,640 Losec Prilosec Expired 30 38 47 1 Nexium 2015 2,272 2,397 2,695 2 Pulmicort 2019 Respules 233 279 305 2018 Turbuhaler formulation 2019 Turbuhaler device Seloken Toprol-XL Expired 320 404 689 Seroquel IR Expired 697 3,344 3,107 3 Seroquel XR 2017 formulation 811 779 640 Symbicort 2014 combination, 2023 formulation, 2026 pMDI device 1,003 846 721 Synagis 2015 composition, 2023 formulation 611 570 646 Zoladex 2021 safety syringe 24 39 46 4 EU, Canada and Japan revenue $m # 5 Key marketed products EU patent expiry Canadian patent expiry Japanese patent expiry 2012 2011 2010 Atacand Expired Expired n a 463 799 837 6 7 Crestor 2017 Expired 2017 2,090 2,534 2,201 Losec Prilosec Expired Expired Expired 484 660 660 8 Nexium 2014 2014 2018 648 1,042 1,422 Pulmicort 2018 Respules 2018 Respules 2018 Respules 300 344 353 2018 Turbuhaler formulation 2018 Turbuhaler formulation 2018 Turbuhaler formulation Seloken Toprol-XL Expired Expired Expired 139 163 169 Seroquel IR Expired Expired Expired 357 651 705 9 Seroquel XR 2017 formulation 2017 formulation n a 527 562 401 Symbicort 2018 formulation 2018 formulation 2017 combination 1,728 1,822 1,621 2019 Turbuhaler device 2019 Turbuhaler device 2018 formulation 2019 Turbuhaler device Synagis 2015 composition 2015 composition 2015 composition 427 405 392 Zoladex 2021 safety syringe 2021 safety syringe 2021 safety syringe 638 733 718 Patents are or may be challenged by third parties.
Generic products may be launched at risk and our patents may be revoked, circumvented or found not to be infringed.
See the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page 75.
Many of our products are subject to challenges by third parties.
Details of material challenges by third parties can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 184.
# Additional patents relating to the stated products may have terms extending beyond the quoted dates.
1 Licence agreements with Teva and Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc. allow each to launch a generic version in the US from May 2014, subject to regulatory approval.
A licence agreement with Teva permits their ongoing sale in the US of a generic version from December 2009.
3 Licence agreements with various generics companies allow launches of generic versions of Seroquel XR in the US from 1 November 2016 or earlier upon certain circumstances, subject to regulatory approval.
4 Aggregate revenue for the EU, Canada and Japan.
5 Expiry in major EU markets.
6 Crestor is covered by a range of patents, including substance, formulation and use patents.
Crestor patent coverage is not uniform across countries.
Granted PTEs mean that a Crestor substance patent remains in force in several major markets after the standard patent term expired in 2012.
However, this substance patent is not in force in a number of countries, such as Australia, Brazil, Mexico, Russia and China.
7 A substance patent and PTE with expiry in 2017 is in force in most major EU markets.
Re-examination period similar to data exclusivity ends July 2019.
9 AstraZeneca is engaged in numerous patent revocation proceedings regarding Seroquel XR patents and further adverse court rulings, in addition to those seen in Germany and the UK, are possible.
36 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing activities focused on the needs of our customers: patients, physicians and payers, and undertaken in the right way As anticipated, our performance in 2012 was impacted by a series of patent expiries.
I will be working with the new commercial SET members to invest in key growth platforms which are essential if the Group is to return to revenue growth.
Pascal Soriot Chief Executive officer If we are to improve the health of patients and optimise our portfolio, thereby around the world, we need to ensure that delivering medicines that customers the right medicines are available and help value and which meet their needs.
To that end, our $4.5bn For an overview of this process, see global sales and marketing organisation is the Life-cycle of a medicine diagram Some $4.5 billion of revenue decline active in over 100 countries.
At the end of on page 14. was related to loss of exclusivity on 2012, it comprised approximately 30,200 Activities in 2012 focused on ensuring several brands in the portfolio, with employees.
As well as building on our continued commercial excellence of key leading positions in commercialising our the largest impact from Seroquel IR products in our established patented medicines in the US and Other Established portfolio, such as Crestor, Seroquel XR Markets, we continue to increase our ability and Symbicort, driving growth in to serve customers in Emerging Markets developing markets and accelerating the including China, Brazil, Mexico and Russia.
commercialisation of recently launched We work to ensure success in serving products.
Brilinta Brilique has now been $600m customers in individual markets by approved for use in hospitalised ACS having highly accountable local leaders Symbicort, Faslodex, Onglyza, Iressa, patients in 88 countries, is reimbursed who understand their markets and have Brilinta Brilique and Seroquel XR in 29, available in 33 patient pay markets a strong focus on business growth.
This accounted for more than $600 million and commercially launched in 82.
Other extensive network is supported by our recently launched products include revenue growth Global Sales and Marketing Organisation Caprelsa, Zinforo and Forxiga.
In the US, that develops global product strategies we also started promotion of Bydureon, and drives commercial excellence, ensuring Byetta and Symlin, the Amylin diabetes a strong customer focus and commercial products that are part of our expanded direction in the management of our pipeline diabetes alliance with BMS.
All our efforts 4% are underpinned by a commitment to Working in partnership conducting our sales and marketing activity Our commitment to collaboration is outlined Emerging Markets revenue rose in accordance with our values and driving in the Partnering to improve health section by 4% and included 17% revenue commercial success responsibly.
This approach is further growth in China, offset by weak evidenced by our global collaboration performance in Mexico, Brazil, Driving commercial success agreement, announced in April 2012, with Turkey and India Driving commercial success requires us The Medicines Company, which has a to maximise the value of our portfolio strong network in interventional cardiology.
across the whole life-cycle of a medicine.
In May, their salesforce began supporting We do so by connecting our science with Brilinta in the US, complementing our our customers needs.
From an early stage own efforts.
in the medicine discovery process we embed customer insights into our R&D In August, we entered into an agreement strategy based on our interactions with with Pzer pursuant to which Pzer healthcare providers, patients, regulators acquired the exclusive global rights to and payers.
We build on this with our local market Nexium for approved OTC indications.
This We will continue to manufacture and approach helps us to prioritise resources market the prescription product, as well as supply Pzer with the OTC product.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 37 Performance | Business Review Global KPI: Disciplinary actions Breaches of external sales and marketing codes and regulations 12 10 11 17 10 11 Global strategies tailored Historically, our commercial model has been Delivering value for payers to meet local needs based on the use of face-to-face marketing Our medicines play an important role in We focus on developing global strategies techniques.
This is now changing to reect treating unmet medical need.
In doing so, tailored to meet local needs and recognise the changing prole of the prescribers of they bring economic as well as therapeutic that our commercial capabilities must our medicines.
For example, primary care benets.
Effective treatments can help to evolve to meet future market requirements.
physicians tend to be younger on average lower healthcare costs by reducing the need The pace and degree of change in global than previously, a greater proportion is for more expensive care, such as hospital economies and intensifying regulatory female, and more work part-time.
Primary stays or surgery, or through preventing and access challenges have led us to care physicians want to interact with patients from developing more serious look at ways of better and more efficiently pharmaceutical companies in different or debilitating diseases that are costly addressing the changing needs and ways.
Driven by experience from innovative to treat.
They also contribute to increased preferences of payers, prescribers and approaches piloted and implemented productivity by reducing or preventing patients.
In 2012, this effort included in North America and Europe, we have the incidence of diseases that keep people completing the regional consolidation changed the way we work.
of our Commercial organisation announced include the introduction of ofce-based As outlined in the Pricing pressure section sales teams, which include physicians in 2011.
Our streamlined operating model on page 18, there is continued downward and dedicated customer service staff, and includes integrating our smaller local pressure on drug pricing and, in the current expanded use of digital channels.
These marketing companies into area clusters, difficult economic environment, payers selling channels have now been rolled allowing them to benefit from global resources expect us to be able to define the value out in more than 30 countries and across while staying local and concentrating our medicines create.
We are acutely aware a range of products.
Evidence to date on meeting local customer needs.
of the challenges facing those who pay suggests these channels are appreciated All our markets have a role to play in for healthcare and are committed to by those who use them and are an efficient delivering our commercial strategy.
We delivering value, which will allow us to bring and effective way of driving value for our continue to prioritise investment and allocate our medicines to the patients that need business.
We are accelerating the roll-out our resources in the most cost-effective them.
Therefore, we work with payers and adoption of the new model in the way.
This allows us to identify those markets and healthcare providers to understand majority of markets in which we operate.
of major signicance to us, those that will their priorities and requirements and become more important drivers of our Pricing our medicines generate evidence regarding how our business in the future and highlight those Our challenge is to deliver innovative products offer value and support costEstablished Markets where we need to medicines that improve health for patients, effective healthcare delivery.
refocus our approach to deliver sustained bring benets to society and provide an Increasing access to healthcare success.
Our footprint continues to evolve appropriate return on our investment.
Our Our commitment: to increase access to reect declining sales in Established global pricing policy provides the framework to healthcare for under-served patient Markets and increasing sales in Emerging to ensure appropriate patient access while populations in a sustainable way.
For example, in 2012 we enhanced optimising the profitability of all our products Our objective: to roll-out our access our presence in Asia with the opening of the in a sustainable way.
When setting the price to healthcare strategy within the business Zhangjiang Park Regional Hub Headquarters of a medicine, we take into consideration and further develop the framework for in Shanghai.
its full value to patients, to those who pay implementation, including non-financial for healthcare and to society in general.
Changing customer needs performance indicators for monitoring We also pursue a exible approach to the In most countries, our sales are made our performance across all our initiatives.
For example, we through wholly-owned local marketing support the concept of differential pricing, Sales of medicines in our Established companies.
In other countries, we sell provided that appropriate safeguards are Markets enable us to generate the revenue through distributors or local representative in place to ensure that differentially priced we need to provide our shareholders with ofces.
Our products are marketed primarily products are not diverted from patients a return, invest in continued innovation to primary care and specialist doctors.
Our who need them to be sold and used in and pursue other opportunities to expand efforts are directed towards explaining the more afuent markets.
the availability of our medicines.
Increasing therapeutic as well as the economic benets that availability and increasing access of our products to doctors, governments to healthcare for under-served patient and others who pay for healthcare.
38 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corrective actions Breaches of Code of Conduct by Commercial employees including contract staff Number of persons Action taken 2012 2011 1 Removed from role 188 214 Formal warning 685 570 Guidance and coaching 1,808 971 Total 2,681 1,755 1 In the majority of cases, this means dismissal or contract termination, but it can include resignations and demotions.
populations in a sustainable way is a Sales and marketing ethics As shown in the Corrective actions table significant global challenge and, in March Our commitment: to deliver consistently above, in relation to these breaches and it 2012, we announced our access to high ethical standards of sales and is important to note that a single breach can healthcare strategy to help in that process.
involve more than one person failing to meet The strategy framework is explained on the standards required, we removed 188 Our objective: to focus on ensuring our website, astrazeneca.
people from their role, formally warned 685 compliance with our Ethical Interactions It seeks to take account of the different people and provided further guidance or Policy and report on the: barriers to healthcare around the world coaching on our policies for 1,808 people.
number of confirmed breaches of and is tailored locally to meet the needs The most serious breaches are raised with external sales and marketing codes of different patient populations.
We are the Audit Committee.
number of instances of failure to meet pursuing a range of initiatives, including US Corporate Integrity Agreement our standards in the Global Commercial broadening affordability of our medicines, reporting Organisation, including contract staff across these populations to understand In April 2010, AstraZeneca signed an number of corrective actions for breaches what works best and in what context.
agreement with the US Department of of our Code of Conduct or supporting During the year, we rolled out our access Justice to settle an investigation relating policies by Commercial employees, to healthcare framework within our Global to the sales and marketing of Seroquel IR.
Sales and Marketing Organisation to The requirements of the associated During 2012, we continued to provide support further development of our existing Corporate Integrity Agreement between training for employees on our global approach and to enable us to capture AstraZeneca and the Ofce of the Inspector standards that govern the way that we ongoing broadening affordability General of the US Department of Health conduct our business around the world.
For example, our and Human Services OIG include a We have comprehensive processes work to expand patient access to healthcare number of active monitoring and selfin place for monitoring compliance with in countries such as Brazil, Romania and reporting obligations that differ from our Code of Conduct and global policies, Ukraine continues with a range of different self-reporting required by authorities in the including dedicated compliance commercial approaches being adopted.
To meet these obligations, professionals who support our line China, we are pursuing our strategy to reach AstraZeneca provides notices to the OIG managers locally in monitoring their patients in the broader market, beyond the describing the outcomes of particular staff activities.
We also have a network big hospitals in the big cities, by developing investigations potentially relating to violations of nominated signatories who review new commercial channels for reaching of certain laws, as well as a separate annual our promotional materials against all emerging hospitals and community health report to the OIG summarising monitoring applicable requirements.
Best practice will be shared and and investigation outcomes relevant to in 2012, audit professionals have conducted replicated.
In addition, in 2012, we acquired Corporate Integrity Agreement requirements.
compliance audits of a selection of our Guangdong BeiKang Pharmaceutical marketing companies.
Company Limited, a generics manufacturing Extract from 2012 Responsible Business Plan.
company in China which gave us access As shown in the Global KPI: Disciplinary Further information on AstraZenecas approach to to a portfolio of injectable medicines used responsible business can be found in the Responsible actions chart opposite, we identied a total to treat infections.
First launches are planned Business section from page 48 and on our website, of 10 confirmed breaches of external sales astrazeneca.
for 2013 and underscore our intention to and marketing regulations or codes globally serve the health needs of Chinese patients in 2012 17 in 2011.
There were 1,932 through our innovative medicines and, instances, including contract staff, of failure increasingly, high quality branded generic to comply with AstraZenecas Code of treatments that are locally produced to Conduct and global policies in our Global global standards.
You can read more about Commercial Organisation, the majority of our strategy and the access initiatives we which were minor 1,292 in 2011, including have under way on our website, external breaches.
We believe that the astrazeneca.
movement in both numbers reects our enhanced management oversight and We are making progress on the development compliance monitoring.
of non-financial indicators for monitoring our performance and these are included in our 2013 Responsible Business Plan.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 39 Performance | Business Review Supply and Manufacturing A reliable supply and manufacturing operation that ensures our medicines are where they need to be when they are needed The supply of high quality medicines to patients around the world continues to be at the forefront of our strategy.
The increasingly challenging regulatory environment, providing access to Emerging Markets and maintaining supply in an increasingly volatile market all represent an opportunity to think about supply to the patient in a more differentiated way.
David Smith Executive Vice-President, Operations & IS Our strategy is to balance innovative and necessary, due to the legacy systems efficient in-house manufacturing capabilities reaching the end of their life-cycle.
At with external manufacturing resources, launch the implementation encountered particularly in relation to the early stages of some unexpected difficulties and we 81.2% our production process.
Where efficiencies put in place a team with representatives Sustained Core gross margin can be achieved, we continue to consider from different parts of the organisation in excess of 80% using outsourced production but our to manage the situation so that impact on strategy is to retain the final stages of the patients would be minimised and markets production cycle in-house.
This balance were kept informed.
The underlying is designed to give us product integrity problems have now been resolved and and quality assurance while affording us production levels returned to normal in cost efficiency and volume exibility.
We estimate that the negative $566m revenue impact for the year resulting from We progressed two key production facilities this disruption was approximately 1%.
during 2012 in China Taizhou and Russia Procurement savings of $566 million, Vorsino, which will enable us to supply Supply from our site in India Bangalore representing a 7% reduction our products to both markets locally.
These was also disrupted for a period of time sites are intended to commence phased following a voluntary recall of products commercial production in 2014.
The work that we determined did not meet our global is led by our global engineering group who quality standards.
Remediation actions put a strong focus on carrying out these have been implemented.
projects fully in line with our ethical and $417m Continuous improvement safety standards.
This work was recognised Lessons learned from the supply chain Capital investment of $417 million in externally in 2012 with the Shell health, disruptions in 2012 have been shared supply and manufacturing facilities safety, security and environment HSSE across the Group as part of our continuous award for embedding an HSSE culture in improvement programme.
This programme our Emerging Markets projects.
allows us to improve our systems and Product quality and supply chain minimise the impact of our activities on the We are committed to delivering product environment.
We focus on what adds value quality that underpins the safety and to our customers and patients, as well as efcacy of our medicines.
The programme has comprehensive quality management delivered significant benets in recent system in place designed to assure the years, including reduced manufacturing quality of our products in compliance lead times and lower average stock levels, with relevant regulations.
both of which improve our ability to respond to customer needs and reduce inventory Notwithstanding our efforts, during 2012 costs.
All improvements are designed to we experienced disruptions to our supply ensure we maintain product quality, safety chain resulting from the implementation and customer service.
in February 2012 of an enterprise resource planning IT system in our facilities in Sweden Sdertlje and Grtuna.
This change was 40 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Supplier audits Number of Number of Number of audits by Year internal audits external audits geographic region 2012 2012 44 438 Asia Pacic 143 2011 64 687 Europe 182 2010 35 13 Americas 129 Middle East & Africa 28 Total 482 We have applied Lean production business Our supply and manufacturing strategy is our products to both markets locally.
In improvement tools and ways of working to based on our commitment to maintaining addition to these two facilities, our principal improve the efficiency of our manufacturing the highest ethical standards while complying small molecule manufacturing facilities are plants for a number of years and, in recent with internal policies, and laws and regulations.
in the UK Avlon and Maccleseld, Sweden years, have applied them to the whole of our We achieve this by placing compliance Snckviken, Grtuna, Sdertlje, the supply chain.
This has led to improvements responsibility with line managers who are US Newark, Delaware and Westborough, Massachusetts, France Reims and in quality, lead times and overall equipment supported by dedicated compliance teams.
Dunkerque, Japan Maihara, Australia effectiveness.
In 2012, we continued to Independent assurance is provided by our North Ryde, China Wuxi, Indonesia establish more efficient processes, with GIA function.
Jakarta, Egypt Cairo, India Bangalore, experts from our global supply chain Managing risk Puerto Rico Canovanas, Germany Wedel, organisation providing cross-functional Given our strategy to outsource all Mexico Lomas Verdes, Brazil Cotia and support throughout the business.
API manufacturing, we place particular Argentina Buenos Aires.
We currently Regulation and compliance importance on our global procurement operate sites for the manufacture of APIs Facilities and processes for manufacturing policies and integrated risk management in the UK and Sweden complemented by medicines must observe rigorous standards processes to ensure uninterrupted supply the efficient use of external sourcing.
They are subject to inspections by of high quality raw materials.
Supplies are principal tablet and capsule formulation sites regulatory authorities to ensure compliance purchased from a range of suppliers.
We are in the UK, Sweden, Puerto Rico and the with prescribed standards.
Regulatory factor in a wide range of potential risks to US.
We also have major formulation sites authorities have the power to require global supply, such as disasters that remove for the global supply of parenteral and or improvements to facilities and processes, supply capability or the unavailability of inhalation products in Sweden, France, halt production and impose conditions that key raw materials, and work to ensure Australia and the UK.
must be satisfied before production can that these risks are effectively mitigated.
Regulatory standards are not Contingency plans include the appropriate At the end of 2012, approximately 10,300 harmonised globally and evolve over time.
use of dual or multiple suppliers and people at 22 sites in 16 countries were maintaining appropriate stock levels.
working on the manufacture and supply We hosted 44 independent inspections Although the price of raw materials may of our products.
This total includes some from 22 different regulatory authorities uctuate, our global purchasing policies 770 permanent and 110 seasonal people in 2012.
All observations from such seek to avoid such uctuations becoming who are employed at our four principal inspections are reviewed along with the material to our business.
biologics commercial manufacturing outcomes of internal inspections and facilities in the US Frederick, Maryland subsequent improvement actions are put We also take into account reputational risk and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the UK in place as required to ensure ongoing associated with our use of suppliers and are Speke, and the Netherlands Nijmegen compliance.
The knowledge obtained from committed to working only with suppliers with capabilities in process development, all inspections is shared across the Group.
that embrace standards of ethical behaviour manufacturing and distribution of biologics, that are consistent with our own.
We are actively involved in providing input including worldwide supply of MAbs and into new product manufacturing regulations As part of our overall risk management, inuenza vaccines.
Our biologics capabilities and approaches to product registration, we carefully consider the timing of are scalable, which enables efficient both at national and international levels, investment with a view to ensuring that management of our combined small through our membership of industry secure supply chains are in place for our molecule and biologics pipeline.
For example, in the EU we products.
We also have a programme continue to provide input into the falsified in place to provide appropriate supply Medicines Directive, which came into force capabilities for our new products.
in January 2013 and starts to take effect Our resources in stages from July 2013.
We have taken Capital expenditure on supply and steps to ensure that our supply chains manufacturing facilities totalled can comply with the falsified Medicines approximately $417 million in 2012 2011: Directive.
In the US, we contributed to $388 million: 2010: $333 million.
This debates concerning Supply Chain Security included expenditure on two production and the prevention of Drug Shortages.
facilities, in China Taizhou and Russia Vorsino, which will enable us to supply AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 41 Performance | Business Review Greenhouse gas emissions Waste production Water use 3 million tonnes thousand tonnes million m 12 1.15 12 47.2 12 3.6 11 1.21 11 49.0 11 4.5 10 1.21 10 46.9 10 4.5 Working with suppliers Environmental impact The management of waste is another key Our commitment: to integrate AstraZeneca Our commitment: to minimise the aspect of our commitment and we have a ethical standards into our procurement environmental impact of our operations 2015 target of a 15% reduction in hazardous activities and decisions worldwide.
by reducing the carbon footprint and and non-hazardous waste from our 2011 natural resource demands of our own levels.
Our primary focus is waste prevention, Our objective: to monitor compliance and our suppliers business activities.
but where this is not practical, we concentrate through our ongoing assessment and on waste minimisation and appropriate programmes with focus on areas Our targets for 2012 included reducing: treatment or disposal to maximise the experiencing highest challenges: to address operational greenhouse gas footprint reuse and recycling of materials and challenges with our suppliers and promote to 890 kilo tonnes CO e yr 2 minimise disposal to landll.
In 2012, our improvement through collaboration.
hazardous waste to 0.70 tonnes $m total waste was 47,000 tonnes with a sales and non-hazardous waste Our Global Responsible Procurement tonnes $m index of 1.7. to 0.52 tonnes employee Standard defines one of the key business 3 water use to 4.0 million m. We recognise the need to use water processes for integrating our ethical responsibly and, where possible, to standards into our procurement activity Our SHE strategy and associated minimise the use of water in our facilities.
It includes objectives and targets for 2011 to 2015 To support the delivery of our target detailed expectations of suppliers.
The provide the framework for driving our to reduce water use by 25% from our process is based on an escalating set environmental sustainability going forward.
2011 levels by 2015, we now have water of risk-based due diligence activities, This section includes summary information conservation plans at our largest sites.
The same initial about certain key areas of the framework.
3 In 2012, our water use was 3.6 million m assessment process is used for all suppliers Full details of our strategy, objectives 3 with a m $m index of 130. and more detailed, focused assessments and targets are available on our website, are then made, relevant to the service astrazeneca.
We are also working to ensure that we provided.
Since the programme began in measure and report the impact of our We work to reduce our greenhouse 2009, we have completed 5,661 assessments external manufacturing activity on the gas emissions by, among other things, of new and existing suppliers, which accounts environment, and that our suppliers improving our energy efficiency and for approximately two-thirds of our spend have appropriate environmental pursuing lower-carbon alternatives on suppliers.
to fossil fuels at our sites.
We strive to We categorise suppliers as high, medium ensure that our travel and transport Our continued commitment to product or low risk.
We focus our auditing efforts activities are as efficient as possible.
stewardship is underpinned by our on high and medium risk rated suppliers Our carbon footprint is also affected ongoing work to integrate environmental but we also audit some suppliers that we by some of our respiratory therapies, considerations into a medicines complete consider to be lower risk, to confirm our specically our pressurised metered-dose life-cycle, from discovery and development, performance expectations across all suppliers inhalers that rely on hydrouoroalkane through manufacturing, marketing and to we do business with.
In 2012, we continued HFA propellants to deliver the medicine its ultimate disposal.
Further information is our audit activity with 482 audits across to a patients airways.
While HFAs have available on our website, astrazeneca.
com 52 countries 751 audits in 2011 as set no ozone depletion potential and a third responsibility, including environmental risk out in the table on the previous page.
or less of the global warming potential assessment data for our medicines.
than the chlorouorocarbons CFCs Forty-three percent of suppliers audited they replace, they are still greenhouse demonstrated standards that met our Extract from 2012 Responsible Business Plan.
Our target is to reduce our expectations, with a further 53% implementing Further information on AstraZenecas approach to operational greenhouse gas footprint responsible business can be found in the Responsible improvements to address minor nonexcluding emissions from patient use Business section from page 48 and on our website, compliances.
We monitor progress across astrazeneca.
of our inhaler therapies by 20% from all corrective actions and 4% of suppliers our 2011 levels by 2015.
In 2012, The following gures have been revised from those audited this year will require significant previously published to incorporate our biologics our gross greenhouse gas emissions follow up to confirm they will make the capabilities into our targets.
from all sources totalled 1.15 million tonnes improvements we require.
We will not 41 tonnes $m indexed to Group revenue.
use suppliers who are unable or unwilling to meet our expectations in a timely way.
During 2012, we removed eight suppliers from our supply chain.
42 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information People A talented and diverse workforce with the right capabilities operating in a high performance culture that enables us to bring great medicines to patients The reduction in scores in our employee survey was disappointing, if understandable given our business challenges.
We must redouble our efforts to make AstraZeneca a great place to work one that leverages the deep commitment and passion of our people and enables us to operate nimbly, decisively and collaboratively.
Lynn Tetrault Executive Vice-President, Human Resources & Corporate Affairs With approximately 51,700 people in workforce composition gure overleaf.
over 100 countries worldwide, we value For example, in 2012,1, 800 of the the talents, skills and capabilities that a new recruits joined AstraZeneca in global workforce brings to our business.
We continue to deploy a range 81% Our people strategy, which defines our of innovative approaches to help us achieve Engagement score fell by three approach to managing our workforce our ambitious growth plans in these percentage points to 81% and supports the delivery of our business markets and to ensure that we have strategy, is built around four key priorities an attractive employer brand and strong that we believe are critical: acquiring reputation globally.
Employees by geographical area % and retaining key capabilities and Compared with a level of 6.7% in talent: further developing leadership 2011, the level of voluntary employee and management capabilities: further turnover across AstraZeneca increased 9 improving the strength and diversity 1 to 7.3% in 2012 and now stands at the 8 of the talent pipeline: and managing average for the pharmaceutical sector.
employee engagement while building 2 We have continued to invest significant 7 a high performance culture.
Managing management time to minimise the risks significant change in the organisations to the business posed by employee workforce is also something to which 6 turnover, particularly in markets where considerable management attention 5 3 conditions are most volatile.
This has continues to be directed.
We use a range included regular reporting to the SET 4 of metrics to track progress against these of resignation rates in total, by SET area priorities, many of which are reported and by key markets using the global HR regularly to the SET.
platform being deployed across all markets EMEA 45.6 Acquiring and retaining key as part of a transformation of the HR 1 UK 13.1 capabilities and talent function.
In addition, specic steps have 2 Sweden 12.8 During 2012, we hired approximately been taken to retain key people and talent 3 Other EMEA 19.7 5,700 permanent employees to fuel the within our business.
For example, regular Americas 27.8 expansion of our business in Emerging risk assessments and retention plans are 4 US 20 Markets, to continue to build the new in place in respect of key individuals.
5 Canada 1.2 capabilities required to implement our 6 Other Americas 6.6 strategy successfully and to replace Asia Pacic 26.6 leavers.
We have successfully attracted 7 China 11.3 key talent to supplement critical capabilities 8 Japan 5.6 across the business and to refresh our 9 Other Asia Pacic 9.7 leadership pipeline in key areas.
With our focus on business growth in Emerging Markets, the composition of our global workforce continued to change, as shown in the Sales and Marketing AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 43 Performance | Business Review Sales and Marketing workforce composition % 2012 53 47 2011 47 53 2010 46 54 2002 16 84 Emerging Markets Established Markets Further developing leadership and Changes to the Senior Executive Team levels in our business.
Women make management capabilities announced in January 2013 included the up 50% of our global workforce, giving We encourage and support our people promotion of six internal candidates and us a real opportunity to develop female in achieving their full potential by providing demonstrate our commitment to the leaders.
Indeed, there are currently three a range of learning and development development of senior leaders.
women on our Board 25% and, below L&D programmes.
These are designed Board level, women account for 40% We remain committed to making full use to build the capabilities and encourage of senior management.
of the talents and resource of all our the behaviours needed to deliver our people.
We have policies in place to avoid Under the leadership of a global Diversity business strategy.
discrimination, including on the grounds & Inclusion steering group chaired by We have a global approach, supported of disability.
Our policies cover recruitment a member of the SET and comprising by the creation of our global talent and and selection, performance management, senior leaders from across the business development organisation, to ensure career development and promotion, transfer, and geographies, we are driving change in that high standards of L&D practice are and training including re-training, if needed, three key areas: leadership & management applied across AstraZeneca.
We continue for people who have become disabled capability: transparency in talent to develop and deploy instructor-led and and reward.
management & career progression: online development resources, which we and work-life challenges.
In March 2012, Improving the strength and diversity aim to make available to all employees to we launched our Global Insight Exchange of the talent pipeline increase access to learning and to support programme as a direct result of the work Our commitment: to build an inclusive, self-development.
This programme, open and trusting organisation embracing which consists of peer-to-peer mentoring We recognise the importance of good the skills, knowledge and unique ability of of over 30 learning pairs of identied leadership and its critical role in stimulating our employees.
talent from different functional areas and high levels of performance and engagement.
Our objective: to accelerate diversity geographies within our organisation, is Our leadership development frameworks and inclusion appropriately throughout designed to accelerate the development are focused on the core capabilities that we the business, build accountability and of our leadership culture and talent pipeline believe are essential for strong and effective track progress.
Our target for 2015 through the exchange of diversity of thought leadership.
These capabilities are dened is to improve female representation: and experience.
In addition, we track for each level in the organisation and apply gender representation at different levels to all our employees.
We complement our at senior manager level and above of the organisation and country of origin leadership capabilities with a set of manager from 38% 2010 to 43% 2015 representation of our senior leaders to accountabilities, which define what we in the global talent pool from 33% measure progress over the medium term.
These manager 2010 to 38% 2015. accountabilities are further enabled across Driving employee engagement Our global workforce provides a diversity all markets through the deployment of our We use a variety of global leadership of skills, capabilities and creativity, and global HR platform.
communication channels to engage we value the benets that such diversity employees in our business strategy.
Alongside judicious hiring of new leaders brings to our business.
We aim to foster These include face-to-face meetings, into critical senior roles, the development a culture of respect and fairness where video conferencing and Yammer a social of an internal pipeline of future global leaders individual success depends solely on media tool to encourage two-way dialogue is a high priority.
We identify individuals with ability, behaviour, work performance and to take place.
For the third year in a row the potential for more senior and complex demonstrated potential.
As we continue to our annual global employee survey roles.
These talent pools provide succession reshape our organisation and geographic FOCUS included an open text feedback candidates for a range of leadership roles footprint, our challenge is to ensure that mechanism, with around 25,000 across AstraZeneca.
We regard these diversity in its broadest sense is reected comments made on a variety of topics.
individuals as key assets to the organisation in our workforce and leadership, and and we proactively support them to reach integrated into our business and people their potential through, for example, global strategies.
Within this context, we support talent development programmes and the representation of women at the highest targeted development opportunities.
44 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information FOCUS engagement scores 2012 81 2011 84 2010 83 2009 84 2008 82 In 2012, 91% of our employees participated We will continue to empower our leaders Managing change in the survey, which measures levels to drive performance, to hold our managers Recruitment in our Emerging Markets of employee engagement and considers accountable for understanding and continues to be accompanied by headcount the effectiveness of our organisational, delivering against the standards required, reductions in our Established Markets leadership and management capabilities, and to provide the tools necessary to as a result of our continuing strategic drive and satisfaction in terms of employees reward outstanding contributions.
to improve efficiency and effectiveness.
Our employee Reductions have come about through Our focus on optimising performance is engagement score decreased by three restructuring in R&D, supply and reinforced by performance-related bonus percentage points this year and our manufacturing, support functions and and incentive plans.
AstraZeneca also leadership communications and work-life our sales and marketing workforce.
encourages employee share ownership The net effect of these changes since balance scores also decreased.
The by offering the opportunity to participate the end of 2006 has been to reduce our survey took place at a challenging time in various employee share plans, some total headcount by some 15,100 from for the Group and the scores were of which are described in the Directors 66,800 to 51,700.
We remained ahead of Remuneration Report from page 122 and a reduction of 2,600 positions in 2010, external pharmaceutical industry norms also in Note 24 to the Financial Statements 5,000 in 2011 and a further 6,300 in 2012, in areas such as motivation, willingness from page 179. which resulted from our business change to put in more effort than would normally Human rights plans announced since 2010. be expected, line management, and Our commitment: to respect and promote operating with integrity and ethics.
However, We are committed to ensuring that international human rights in our operations we recognise that we have more work to AstraZenecas core values, robust people do in important areas, such as strategic and our sphere of inuence.
policies, consultation infrastructure and understanding and reducing organisational Our objective: to ensure that human rights prior experience were integrated into this complexity, to ensure AstraZeneca is considerations are appropriately integrated multi-faceted business transformation.
Local leadership into our policies, processes and practices.
Trade unions and employee representative teams have also identied actions designed groups were involved throughout the to target any concerns specic to their As reported in 2011, we have carried restructuring process.
out labour reviews in 106 countries investment in outplacement support, high in which we have employees.
The A key element of our people strategy is the levels of success have been achieved in reviews focused on International Labour continued development of a performance nding employees alternative opportunities Organization ILO core areas, including culture across the organisation.
Further details are set freedom of association and collective strengthening our focus on setting high out in the Our strategy section from page 20. bargaining, child labour, discrimination, quality objectives aligned to our business working hours and wages.
The framework strategy, and ongoing coaching and Extract from 2012 Responsible Business Plan.
for the review was provided by an adaptation feedback, we strive to ensure that Further information on AstraZenecas approach to of the employment section of the Danish responsible business can be found in the Responsible performance at all levels of the organisation Institute for Human Rights assessment tool Business section from page 48 and on our website, delivers value.
The Board is responsible for astrazeneca.
for pharmaceutical companies, which was setting our high-level strategic objectives developed with our industrys help and and monitoring performance against them launched in 2010.
Results showed that our see the Operation of the Board section on practices are generally consistent across page 111.
Managers across AstraZeneca all countries, based on our mandate that are accountable for working with their teams our global standards are applied when to develop individual and team performance external national standards do not meet targets, and for ensuring that employees our minimum requirements.
Some gaps understand how they contribute to overall to ILO standards have been identied business objectives.
and are being addressed as part of the review of our Global People Policy, which is planned for 2014.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 45 Performance | Business Review Vehicle collisions Lost time injury illness Collisions Lost time injury illness rate Year million km Target Year million hours worked Target 2015 5.6 2015 1.91 2012 7.43 7.1 2012 2.01 2.38 2011 8.73 7.7 2011 1.96 2.49 Managing employee relations Driver safety remains our highest priority We work to ensure a level of global for improvement and our focus is on consistency in managing employee promoting driver safety among our sales relations, while allowing enough exibility forces, collectively the single largest group to support the local markets in building of employees who drive on AstraZeneca good relations with their workforces, taking business.
Driver safety targets are into account local laws and circumstances.
included in regional and local scorecards.
To that end, relations with trade unions Performance is monitored centrally to are nationally determined and managed assess progress and identify areas for locally in line with the applicable legal improvement.
In 2012, we missed our framework and standards of good practice.
annual target for collisions per million However, each change programme has kilometres driven.
We remain on track its unique challenges and a standard to achieve our 2015 target.
solution may not always be appropriate.
We regret that during 2012, two members Where this is the case, the appropriate of the public were killed in two separate solution is developed through consultation road trafc accidents involving AstraZeneca with employee representatives or, where drivers in Russia and Turkey.
Detailed applicable, trade unions, with the aim of investigations into both accidents have retaining key skills and mitigating job losses.
For the Russian accident, Early in 2012, we implemented our Global an action plan was formulated to respond Employment Standards, which are linked to the findings of the investigation and those to our Global People Policy.
Our Global actions are being tracked.
The investigation Employment Standards serve to provide report for the Turkish accident, which common and consistent expectations occurred in October, has not yet been concerning the way in which our employees nalised.
Learning from the investigations will be managed globally and cover matters into both accidents will be shared widely including attendance, employee concerns, across the Group.
exible working, leaving AstraZeneca, In 2012, the lost time injury illness rate misconduct, performance improvement, increased by 3% from 2011.
However, redeployment and redundancy, and we remain on track to achieve our 2015 work-life balance.
target of a 25% reduction in the lost time Safety, health and wellbeing injury illness rate from the 2010 baseline, Our commitment: to promote a safe, with an overall 21% reduction achieved healthy and energising work environment so far.
in which our people, and those from third Work-related stress has been a particular parties working closely with us, are able focus for us in recent years: in 2012 we to express their talents, drive innovation achieved a significant 59% reduction in and improve business performance.
the number of reportable cases compared Our targets for 2012 included: to 2011.
We are continuing our efforts in 0 fatalities this area, using a risk-based approach, combined lost time injury illness including wellbeing risk assessment tools, rate per million hours worked of 2.38 to identify high-risk areas and target 7.1 collisions per million kilometres driven.
Extract from 2012 Responsible Business Plan.
Further information on AstraZenecas approach to responsible business can be found in the Responsible Business section from page 48 and on our website, astrazeneca.
46 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Compliance Employees acting with integrity If people are to have confidence in AstraZeneca, we must be trusted as an organisation.
That trust is built on all employees acting with integrity in everything that they do on a daily basis and feeling able to raise concerns about possible breaches of our Code of Conduct and our Global Policies.
Katarina Ageborg Chief Compliance officer Our Global Compliance function has been When a potential compliance breach The Code includes information on established to drive and embed a culture of is identied, an internal investigation how to report possible violations of the ethics and integrity within our organisation.
is undertaken by appropriate staff from Code, including through the AZethics our Global Compliance, HR and or Legal telephone lines and AZethics.
Anyone Our key compliance priorities include: teams.
When appropriate, external advisers who raises a possible breach in good faith focusing our efforts on important are engaged to conduct and or advise is fully supported by management.
We compliance risk areas on investigations.
Should the investigation take all alleged compliance breaches and communicating clear policies conclude that an actual breach has occurred, concerns extremely seriously and investigate to employees management, in consultation with our Legal them and report the outcome of such improving compliance behaviours function, will consider whether the Company investigations to the Audit Committee, through effective training and support needs to make a disclosure and or to report as appropriate.
ensuring employees can raise concerns the findings to a regulatory or governmental In 2012, 194 reports of alleged compliance and that those concerns will be properly authority.
More information on GIA and breaches or other ethical concerns were addressed our overall risk management and control made via telephone, the AZethics.
com ensuring fair and objective investigations framework can be found in the Corporate website, or the Global Compliance email of possible policy breaches Governance Report from page 110. or postal addresses described in the Code.
monitoring and auditing compliance Code of Conduct In 2011, the number of reports through with policies Our Code of Conduct the Code is at the equivalent channels was 222.
This decrease providing key stakeholders with core of our compliance programme and is in the context of a significant increase assurance and effective reporting applies worldwide to all fulland part-time in management and self-reporting of of material issues.
AstraZeneca Directors, ofcers, employees compliance incidents, which can be seen These priorities are closely aligned and temporary staff.
It has been translated as an indication that employees are more to the Groups strategy and reect our into over 40 languages and each employee comfortable in raising their concerns drive to strengthen our efforts for oversight has access to an electronic copy.
It provides with line managers, local HR, Legal or at all levels of our business, including risk clear direction as to how our commitment Compliance, as recommended in the Code management relating to external parties to honesty and integrity is to be realised in and reinforced in the 2012 Code training.
GIA consistent actions across all areas of the As with the Code, our Global Policies and Global Compliance work closely business.
Compliance with the Code is apply to all companies within our Group.
with one another and both separately mandatory and every employee receives They provide clear and comprehensive provide assurance reporting to the Audit training on it.
Every employee is required to guidance, in plain language, to all managers Committee.
Our Global Compliance comply with local laws and regulations, as and employees as to their accountabilities function also works together with a well as applicable national and international in key ethical, compliance and corporate range of specialist compliance functions codes.
We always seek to operate at the responsibility risk areas.
throughout our organisation to ensure highest of these various standards.
The ongoing legal and regulatory compliance.
Code is regularly reviewed and updated In March 2012, we created a Group to take account of changing legal and Compliance Council, with membership regulatory obligations.
drawn from Global Compliance and from the other specialist compliance functions, whose purpose is to co-ordinate our compliance activities.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 47 Performance | Business Review Responsible Business A commitment to acting responsibly and to the sustainable development of our business Being a responsible business is not an optional extra.
Despite the challenges we face as a business, we remain committed to acting responsibly and our sustainable development.
In this way we can continue to be valued for what we do and trusted for the way we do it.
Nancy Rothwell Non-Executive Director with responsibility for overseeing Responsible Business In this section, we describe our approach R&D: Underpinning our accelerated drive Community investment: Making a positive to delivering business success responsibly.
for innovation with sound R&D ethics contribution to our local communities Summary information about our commitment worldwide see page 33. around the world, through community and performance in key areas is integrated Patient safety: Maintaining a strong focus support programmes consistent with into the relevant sections of this Annual on patient safety in everything we do, improving health and promoting science Report, while further information about minimising the risks and maximising the see page opposite.
these and other areas is available on our benets of all our medicines throughout A core element of our business strategy website, astrazeneca.
R&D, and after launch see page 34. is value-creating business development Access to healthcare: As we expand our Introduction activity that strengthens our pipeline and geographic footprint, exploring ways of At AstraZeneca, we are dedicated accelerates growth.
This includes targeted increasing access to healthcare for more to the discovery, development and acquisitions.
When we acquire companies people, tailored locally to different patient commercialisation of prescription we aim to work with them to align standards needs see page 38. medicines that make a difference in of responsible business and incorporate Sales and marketing: Working to healthcare.
For us, this is at the core the companies into the setting of targets consistent global standards of ethical of our responsibility to our stakeholders and measurement of performance.
This sales and marketing practices in all our and to society.
Successful pharmaceutical process can take time.
Thus, for example, markets as we work to restore growth innovation, delivered responsibly, improves responsible business data relating to Ardea, see page 39. health for patients, brings benets to acquired in June, is not incorporated Diversity and inclusion: Working to stakeholders and delivers long-term in this Annual Report.
ensure that diversity in its broadest shareholder value.
Benchmarking sense is reected in our leadership In the Strategy section from page 12, we As expectations of stakeholders evolve, and people strategies see page 44. describe our approach to creating value we continue to engage with them and use Human rights: Continuing to develop across the life-cycle of a medicine, our the feedback to inform the development and embed a consistent approach to distinctive capabilities and our strategy.
of our responsible business strategy and human rights across all our worldwide risk management planning.
All these efforts are underpinned by Employee safety, health and wellbeing: We also use the insights we gain from our commitment to being a responsible Promoting the safety, health and external surveys to develop our approach company, working with integrity and wellbeing of all our people worldwide as in line with global best practice.
A member delivering sustainable business development we continue to drive a high performance of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index since that adds value for our stakeholders.
To that culture and achievement of our business 2001, we were once again listed in the 2012 end, our responsible business objectives goals see page 46.
World Index the top 10% of the largest are aligned to, and support delivery of, Working with suppliers: Only working 2,500 companies.
We also retained our our business strategy.
Our Responsible with suppliers who have standards listing on the DJSI STOXX European index Business Plan is our framework for consistent with our own as we increase the top 20% of the 600 largest European managing our commitments and includes our outsourcing to drive business companies for the fifth year running one objectives, targets and KPIs that are agreed efficiency see page 42. of only four pharmaceutical companies to across the Group, taking account of external The environment: Managing our impact do so out of 14 assessed.
We achieved stakeholder insights and internal reputational on the environment, across all our a total score of 83% 2011: 85% compared risk assessment.
The Responsible Business operations, with a particular focus with a sector best score of 87% 2011: 87%.
Plan puts at the top of the agenda those on carbon emissions, waste and water We increased individual scores for nine out areas most impacted by our business use see page 42. of 22 criteria for 2012 compared to 14 out strategy, which are as follows: 48 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information of 23 criteria in 2011 including marketing External assurance Our global community investment strategy practices, supply chain management Bureau Veritas has provided external focuses on two key areas, healthcare in and human capital development.
While assurance on the responsible business the community and science in education.
these scores are encouraging, we lost information contained within this Annual In 2012, we continued to expand our YHP ground in some areas including innovation Report on pages 33-34, 38-39, 42, country programme.
This is designed to management and health outcomes 44-46 and below, and of the performance help young people in need around the world contribution.
To better understand these related content of the Responsibility section deal with the health issues they face so lower scores, we commissioned an of our website.
Based on the evidence they can improve their chances of living in-depth external benchmark survey provided and subject to the scope, objectives a better life.
We currently have 15 country and the analysis will be used to inform and limitations dened in the full assurance programmes under way around the world.
statement, nothing has come to the attention Through YHP, we have reached over of Bureau Veritas causing them to believe Responsible business governance 250,000 young people in communities that the responsible business information The Board is responsible for our responsible across five continents with health included within this Annual Report is business framework and Non-Executive information.
Over 3,000 of these young materially misstated.
The full assurance Director, Nancy Rothwell, oversees people have been trained to share this statement, which contains detailed implementation and reporting to the Board.
health information with their peers and with scope, methodology, overall opinion and the community, and over 2,700 frontline The SET and senior managers throughout recommendations can be found on our health providers have completed training the Group are accountable for operating website, astrazeneca.
We are responsibly within their areas taking Bureau Veritas is an independent professional on track to meet our Clinton Global Initiative into account national, functional and site services company that specialises in quality, commitment to reach 500,000 young issues and priorities.
Line managers are health, safety, social and environmental people by the end of 2015.
Initial findings accountable for ensuring that their teams management with a long history of providing from the Wellbeing of Adolescents in understand the requirements and that independent assurance services.
Vulnerable Environments study being people are clear about what is expected of Community investment undertaken by Johns Hopkins Bloomberg them as they work to achieve AstraZenecas Our commitment: to meet our School of Public Health as part of YHP were business goals.
responsibility as a global corporation presented at the World Health Summit in Our Responsible Business Council to support the wider community, Berlin, Germany in October.
As part of our the Council is chaired by our Executive maximising the benefit of our investment best practice sharing, our dedicated online Vice-President of Human Resources & for all stakeholders, through focused resource .
com Corporate Affairs, and members include investment and by embracing current enables those working with young people senior leaders from each relevant SET best practice.
to access information and resources area.
Its agenda is focused on driving created by the YHP partners.
Our objective: to extend the geographic long-term value creation by agreeing, reach of our Young Health Programme Our support for science education takes among other things: YHP.
Our target was to have 15 YHP a number of forms.
For example, in 2011, responsible business priorities for the country programmes running by the end we entered a three year partnership with Group in line with strategic business of 2012 with a total target reach of 500,000 Career Academies UK to support increased objectives adolescents by 2015. participation by 16 to 19-year-olds in Science, managing and monitoring the annual Technology, Engineering and Maths STEM In 2012, we spent a total of $1.18 billion process of setting responsible business subjects, with a target that one-third of 2011: $1.06 billion on community objectives and targets recorded in the Career Academies have a STEM theme investment sponsorships, partnerships and Responsible Business Plan, as well by the 2014 15 academic year.
By the charitable donations worldwide, including as reviewing performance against KPIs 2012 13 academic year, the proportion our product donation and patient assistance appropriate policy positions to support was almost one-quarter, representing programmes which make our medicines AstraZenecas business objectives and 48 Career Academies.
Our work with available free of charge or at reduced reputation management.
Career Academies UK complements the prices.
Through our three patient assistance involvement we have had since 2003 with The Council is supported by a Responsible programmes in the US we donated products the STEM ambassador programme.
Business Working Group the Working valued at an average wholesale price Group of SET area representatives.
Among of over $1.12 billion 2011: $938 million.
other things, the Working Group continuously We also donated products worth over Extract from 2012 Responsible Business Plan.
reviews external issues with the potential $5.8 million, valued at average wholesale Further information on AstraZenecas approach to responsible business can be found above to impact AstraZeneca and, as appropriate, price, to charitable organisations Americares and on our website, astrazeneca.
prepares management and measurement and Direct Relief International.
Figures re-stated to correct product donation data proposals for the Councils consideration.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 49
