Business review: Group overview Busi ness review 4 BP at a glance G roup overview 8 Chairmans letter Carl-Henric Svanberg sets out the boards priorities An overview of the key actions, in 2012 and BPs prospects moving forward.
events and results in 2012, together with commentary 10 Group chief executives letter on BPs performance in the Bob Dudley reviews the companys progress as we work to build a stronger, safer BP.
year and our priorities as we move forward.
12 Energy outlook Our views on the factors likely to shape energy demand and supply, from population and the energy mix, to policy, prices and access.
15 Our business model An overview of how we are organized, the ways in which we create value, and our distinctive strengths.
20 Our strategy Our priorities as we work to create a distinctive platform for growth.
22 Our performance From progress in Russia to new exploration access: a review of important actions and events during the year.
28 Our key performance indicators How we performed as measured by our key financial and non-financial indicators.
30 Our management of risk A summary of the risks we face in our business.
32 Cautionary statement Business review: Group overview 3 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business model BP at a glance For more information on our business model see pages 15-19. Who we are Our business model We aim to create value for Finding Developing and extracting shareholders by helping to oil and gas oil and gas meet growing demand for First, we acquire exploration rights, Once we have found hydrocarbons, energy in a responsible way.
then we search for hydrocarbons we work to bring them to the surface.
Our activities also generate jobs, investment, infrastructure and revenues for governments and local communities.
We operate in over 80 countries.
Our priorities are to enhance safety and risk management, earn back trust and grow value.
We strive to be a safety leader in our industry, a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer.
We are working to build a stronger, safer BP that plays to its distinctive strengths and capabilities: exploration, operations in deep water, the managing of giant elds and gas value chains, and our downstream business.
Innovative technology and strong relationships with governments, partners and communities around the world underpin our activities.
The key performance indicators KPIs for BP are shown on pages 28-29.
Some of the financial KPIs are not recognized GAAP measures, but are provided for investors because they are closely tracked by management to evaluate BPs operating performance and to make financial, strategic and operating decisions.
Group Upstream BP p. l. c. is the parent company of the Our Upstream segment manages its exploration, development and production activities BP group of companies.
Our worldwide through global functions with specialist areas of expertise.
b Employees by business segment Proved reserves 1.
Other businesses 10,400 and corporate replacement cost profit new exploration access and Gulf Coast before interest and tax Restoration Organization Total 85,700 Including service station 2 28 5 2 staff.
3 countries of operation major project start-ups c Liquids $ $ 11.6 bn 20.4 bn 1.
Equity-accounted entities 1,033 profit attributable to operating cash ow Total 5,510 BP shareholders Natural gas 3.
Equity-accounted entities 439 18.7 19 Total 6,175 gearing reduction in loss of a net debt ratio primary containment b Million barrels of oil equivalent.
Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at a Net debt is not a recognized GAAP measure, 5.8 billion cubic feet bcf 1 million barrels.
Liquids comprise crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and bitumen.
4 BP at a glance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview All data provided on pages 4 and 5 is as at, or for the year ended, 31 December 2012.
Transporting and trading Manufacturing Marketing oil and gas fuels and products fuels and products We move hydrocarbons using We rene, process and blend We supply our customers with fuel for pipelines, ships, trucks and trains hydrocarbons to make fuels, transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants and capture value across the supply lubricants and petrochemicals.
to keep engines moving and the petrochemicals chain.
required to make a variety of everyday items.
Fuels Lubricants Petrochemicals International oil and gas markets Biofuels Downstream Our Downstream segment operates hydrocarbon value chains covering three main businesses fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals.
Investing in renewable energy d Operating capital employed We develop and invest in biofuels and wind.
1 $ 3 BPs lower-carbon businesses and investments 2.8 bn 14.7 million tonnes 2 in future options are operated through our replacement cost profit of petrochemicals produced in Alternative Energy business.
before interest and tax the year % 2.4 million barrels 39 7.2 million tonnes of oil rened per day of our lubricants sales were biofuels total sugar cane crush premium grades capacity per annum 1.
Petrochemicals $5.3bn e 1, 558MW net wind generation capacity d e Operating capital employed is total assets excluding goodwill less total liabilities, Excludes 32MW of capacity in the Netherlands, which is excluding finance debt and current and deferred taxation.
managed by our Downstream segment.
BP at a glance 5 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 BP at a glance continued Where we operate Alaska Fuels BP is active in over 80 countries.
We opened our Alaska ofce in 1959 and The fuels business is made up of seven acquired our first federal licences that year.
regionally based fuels value chains FVCs, a This map shows our key We now operate 13 oilelds and four pipelines.
number of regionally focused fuels marketing operating sites across the world.
We also own a significant interest in six other businesses, a global aviation fuels marketing producing elds.
business that markets products in more than 45 countries and the global oil supply and The shaded areas indicate countries trading activities.
These businesses sell rened where we have operations.
petroleum products including gasoline, diesel, a aviation fuel and LPG.
Upstream Fuels value chains Primarily 75% liquids.
US: North West, South West, East of Rockies.
Rest of world: Australia and New Zealand, Exploration site.
a Locations are categorized as liquids or natural gas based on 2012 production.
Where production is yet to commence materially, categorization is based on proved reserves.
Exploration sites have no significant proved reserves or production as at 31 December 2012.
Petrochemicals site s. Asset held for sale.
We have interests in 16 wind farms in the US, and operate four ethanol production facilities three in Brazil and one in the UK.
TNK-BP TNK-BP upstream assets wholly or partly owned by TNK-BP.
TNK-BP reneries wholly or partly owned by TNK-BP.
BPs investment in TNK-BP is classied as an asset held for sale in the group balance sheet at 31 December 2012.
BP group headcount by region Gulf of Mexico Trinidad & Tobago including 14,700 service station staff We are one of the largest lease holders and BP has been exploring in Trinidad since 1939.
Europe 31,600 producers of oil and gas in the regions deep Today we hold exploration and production 6 1 5 2.
In 2011 we resumed drilling in the region.
licences covering more than 1,800,000 acres.
Asia 16,400 We now produce oil and gas from four operated We operate 13 offshore platforms and an 4.
South and Central 3 America 5,800 hubs and three non-operated hubs.
Russia 300 6 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview North Sea region Azerbaijan Lubricants BP was the first company to nd Our major projects include the Azeri-ChiragOur lubricants business manufactures and Gunashli oil eld: the Shah Deniz gas eld: markets lubricants and related products and hydrocarbons in the North Sea region, in 1965.
We now have one of the largest asset three major terminals: and a number of longservices.
It is a global business marketing distance pipelines, including the 1,768km products in more than 70 countries leveraging bases in the region, operating around 30 oil and gas elds, two major terminals and an Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, which carries oil brand, technology and relationships.
We focus across Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
our resources on core and growth markets extensive network of pipelines.
such as Brazil, Russia, India and China.
Angola Petrochemicals We have been involved in Angola since the Our petrochemicals business produces 1970s.
We now hold a position in nine major petrochemicals products at manufacturing deepwater licences, along with equity in the units around the world that, for the most Angola LNG project.
We achieved two major part, use proprietary BP technology.
At the project start-ups in 2012. end of the year the business comprised 15 manufacturing sites with approximately 40% of our capacity in Asia, and 30% in each of Europe and the US.
We sell our products to customers in more than 40 countries.
Carl-Henric Svanberg 10-year dividend history Dear fellow shareholder UK pence per ordinary share In 2012 the board had three priorities.
First, to address uncertainty from ongoing litigation in the US and our partnership in Russia.
Second, to reinforce the strategic direction of the 40 group.
Third, to accelerate the companys momentum and build confidence.
All of these were pursued in the context of the boards active monitoring of safety and risk management.
30 Substantial progress has been made in meeting these priorities.
This progress gave the board confidence to raise the quarterly dividend by 14% in February 2012 and by 12.5% in 20 October.
The increased dividend represents an important milestone on the road to improved shareholder value.
We are maintaining a progressive dividend policy, increasing 10 returns to you, in line with financial performance and outlook.
0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 The pursuit of energy will always involve risk, so it is essential that safety remains front of mind.
From safe and reliable operations comes trust, and we need that trust if BP is to create value for you and to help meet the worlds energy needs.
US cents per ADS Looking ahead, your board sees strong prospects for BP in a world that requires a growing 400 supply of energy.
We are aware that we still have some way to go.
We continue to face a number of uncertainties in the US, for example.
The board thanks you for your continued 300 patience and support as we work to address these issues.
200 In working to resolve uncertainty, two matters demanded the close attention of your board.
100 In the US, the company has faced legal proceedings related to the Deepwater Horizon accident.
Our settlements with the US government, the Securities and Exchange 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Commission and others were each important steps forward in reducing uncertainty.
1 ADS represents six 25 cent ordinary shares.
In Russia, the agreed sale of our 50% shareholding in TNK-BP to Rosneft, and the settlement with our partners, have brought clarity.
The disposal agreement will provide us with an increased stake in Rosneft, such that on completion, BP will have a 19.75% share of the biggest publicly traded oil company in the world in terms of oil production and reserves.
In due course BP expects to have two seats on its nine-person board.
BP has worked with Rosneft for some 15 years.
Our joint ambition is that BPs people, processes and technologies will help to signicantly enhance Rosnefts value over time, as they did at TNK-BP.
During the year the board supported Bob Dudley, our group chief executive, on the implementation of the 10-point plan and the further implementation of the functional organization.
We worked with him to develop the group strategy beyond 2014.
Bob, the executive team and all our employees have made a huge contribution, working to reach our milestones and secure a promising future for the company during a tough period.
Bob has shown steady and determined leadership through this time.
I thank him and everyone at BP for their hard work.
The qualities of BPs employees were once again demonstrated in January 2013, following the violent attack at In Amenas in Algeria.
This shocking event deeply affected us all, but Board performance across the company people responded with great resilience.
We will always remember For information about the board and its committees see pages 101-126. those who lost their lives in this terrible incident.
8 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview As 2012 progressed the board saw the company start to move forward with greater Our strategy confidence.
It is important that this momentum continues.
For more on our strategic priorities and longer-term objectives see pages 20-21.
Our board committees have provided effective oversight of the company and its operations, which has enabled the board to focus on its three priorities.
Outside the boardroom, our non-executive directors have continued to pay visits to key parts of the business.
My own visits this year included Angola, Azerbaijan, the North Sea, Japan and the US.
The board has seen substantial change.
For this reason, we have asked Antony Burgmans to serve for a further three years.
I am pleased that we will continue to benefit from his experience and understanding of the company.
Byron Grote is retiring after 33 years with BP, including more than 12 years on the board.
I thank him for his dedication and the exceptional contribution he has made to this company.
As we move through 2013, the board is well balanced, with deep experience in our industry and a broad range of skills across business and finance.
We will refresh the board as and when required.
I believe board diversity including the representation of women at the top helps to make boards more effective.
We will continue to work to identify candidates from a range of backgrounds who can make a unique and powerful contribution to BP.
One of the vital tasks of the board is to ensure strategy is matched to the world we see ahead.
Energy remains the engine of progress, and we expect rising populations and increasing industrialization to generate strong demand to 2030 and beyond.
The world will continue to be dependent on fossil fuels in the medium term.
Along with providing the hydrocarbons needed, we are also involved in developing the resources, technologies and policies required over the long term.
Carl-Henric Svanberg at the Sangachal terminal Our industry keeps evolving.
In the past international oil companies dominated access to control room during his three-day trip to Azerbaijan top : Professor Dame Ann Dowling on resources.
Then national oil companies took control of the greater share.
But much of the the Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico easiest-to-reach oil has been developed.
So we are now entering a third era, where middle : Brendan Nelson and Phuthuma Nhleko co-operation between partners is the key to unlocking the resources found in the most at BPs North America Gas operations in east challenging locations.
For BP, advantage now comes from exceptional capability rather Texas, US bottom.
Our future is about high-margin, high-quality production, not simply volume.
Oil will continue to be BPs prime focus, and we aim to extend our extraordinary track record in nding and developing new resources.
We will keep making selective investments in natural gas, with an emphasis on assets that generate good margins.
And we will be selective in the Downstream too, choosing to operate where our rening and marketing assets are connected to attractive markets.
Over the past three years BP has had to change.
Through our reorganization, we are a simpler company.
Through our asset sales, we are stronger nancially.
Through our actions, we have reduced complexity and risk.
Our plans, priorities and direction are clear.
I see great opportunities ahead, as we continue to build a stronger, safer BP that meets the expectations of our shareholders and the wider world.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman 6 March 2013 Business review: Group overview 9 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Group chief executives letter We are building a platform for growth that should serve us well for many years to come.
Bob Dudley Dear fellow shareholder BP made important progress in 2012.
We achieved a series of strategic milestones and remained on course with our plans to 2014 and beyond.
We made great strides forward in Russia and the US.
We continued to enhance risk management.
We focused on our areas of greatest strength.
And we sold assets to capture value, simplify the business and reduce risk.
Before I say more about our activities and plans, I would like to reect, with great sadness, on the terrible events that took place at the In Amenas joint venture facility in Algeria in January 2013.
Our thoughts are with the families and friends of those who lost their lives in the attack.
We are working with government agencies and others to determine what can be learned from this shocking incident.
Coming back to our work over the past few years, people may not be fully aware of the enormous scale of the change we have made.
By the end of 2012 we had announced asset sales of $38 billion, essentially reaching our target a year early.
Since the divestment programme began, we have sold around half our upstream installations and pipelines, and one-third of our wells while retaining roughly 90% of our proved reserves base and production.
Meanwhile, we are gaining new exploration access, rolling out high value projects and upgrading assets.
Our Downstream segment has had an excellent year with strong operational performance a and record underlying profits.
We made good progress on the modernization programme of our Whiting renery and reached agreement on the divestment of two major reneries in the US, completing the sale of our Texas City renery in February 2013.
There is more to do and there will always be new challenges to face, but we are steadily acting to build a stronger, safer BP.
We are addressing uncertainty in the US In 2012 we resolved federal criminal charges with the Department of Justice and securities claims with the SEC.
We continue to work with the Environmental Protection Agency to Carl-Henric Svanberg and Bob Dudley with Igor resolve suspension and debarment issues.
Sechin, President of Rosneft, on the day the BP board approved the transaction.
We have consistently said we are willing to settle all outstanding claims on reasonable terms, but we are also prepared to defend the company and its actions in court.
We will do what is in the best interests of our shareholders.
I recognize that ongoing proceedings prolong uncertainty, so we will endeavour to update you as events unfold.
Back in 2010 we said that we would help restore the environment and economy of the Gulf.
We are holding true to that promise.
In 2012 we made our final payment into the $20-billion Trust fund, from which $9.5 billion has been distributed to date.
We supported environmental research and provided funds for the local tourism industry.
Having grown up in the Gulf, I am heartened that the tourists are back, beaches are busy and the shing is good.
To date, BP has made total payments directly related to the accident and oil spill of $32.8 billion.
We will continue to meet our commitments in the region.
We are repositioning BP in Russia In 2012 we agreed to sell our 50% shareholding in TNK-BP to Rosneft.
TNK-BP proved to be an outstanding investment, generating substantial value for BP.
From an initial commitment of around $8 billion, it has returned some $19 billion of dividends to us.
But the time had come to move on.
10 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview The new agreement will provide us with an 18.5% share in Rosneft and $12.3 billion of cash, $ including a dividend of $0.7 billion received from TNK-BP in December 2012.
Combined with 19 billion our existing 1.25% shareholding, we will own 19.75% of Rosneft.
We expect the transaction Dividends received by BP from TNK-BP to be completed in the first half of 2013.
Through it, we will maintain a strong position in the since 2003. worlds largest oil and gas producing country.
And we will be a major investor in a company transforming its asset base, management processes and corporate governance.
We will use our experience in large acquisitions and mergers to support Rosneft as it assimilates TNK-BPs assets.
We can also contribute technical skills in areas from exploration and enhanced oil recovery to integrating downstream businesses and international developments.
We have confidence in the Russian business environment and we look forward to playing a valued role in the countrys future.
We are enhancing safety and risk management Our employees have been working systematically to enhance safety and risk management.
We have changed how we are organized, bringing greater clarity and consistency across the company.
In the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere, we are holding our operations to standards that in many cases go beyond regulatory requirements.
And we have turned lessons learned from the 2010 accident into new oil spill response plans and technologies, which we are adopting within BP and sharing with others.
I take encouragement from our 19% reduction in loss of primary containment this past year, continuing a multi-year trend.
2012 saw the appointment of Carl Sandlin, who will oversee the implementation of the recommendations of the Bly Report, BPs internal accident investigation.
In addition, following our agreement with the US government to resolve all federal criminal claims, we have agreed to take additional actions designed to further enhance the safety of drilling operations in the Gulf.
Two independent monitors will be appointed to review and provide recommendations, one regarding process safety for deepwater drilling in the Gulf and the other BPs code of conduct.
An independent auditor will review and report on BPs implementation of key terms of the agreement.
We are building a distinctive platform for growth In shaping our portfolio, we are prioritizing shareholder value.
Scale remains important, but we are focused on driving forward our financial performance rather than simply growing production volumes.
Operating cash ow and replacement cost profit will take precedence over barrels of production.
We are increasing investment in the areas with the greatest potential to generate strong and reliable growth in operating cash ow, from exploration and deepwater operations to giant elds and gas value chains.
In the Downstream, we have a portfolio of world-class businesses that are positioned to b The new US-based High-Performance deliver material and growing free cash ows.
Computing centre, which is currently There is plenty for us to explore.
During the year we gained new access in six countries.
under construction, will enable BP scientists to Since 2010 we have accessed around 400,000 square kilometres of new acreage.
That complete an imaging project in one day is roughly the size of California and more than double the exploration acreage gained whereas it would have taken four years nearly from 2000 to 2009. a decade ago.
We continue to have an important presence in many of the worlds largest economies and in fast-developing countries too.
BPs global footprint and prudent financial approach are important given the potential for turbulence in the world, including further economic and political upheaval.
We are well placed to respond to unsettled conditions if and when they appear.
Looking ahead While facing uncertainties and navigating through testing times, BP emerged from 2012 a somewhat smaller, but stronger company.
As we move forward, you will see us keep working to focus, standardize and improve what we do and how we do it.
We are building a platform for growth that should serve us well for many years to come.
I want to end by paying tribute to everyone here at BP.
This has been another truly demanding year, and our employees have dedicated themselves to their jobs in a way that I nd humbling.
I am proud of the talent and the terric spirit of determination to improve that is found within BP.
Over the next 12 months and beyond, we will continue our work to enhance safety, earn back trust and create value.
a Downstream underlying profit is not a recognized GAAP measure.
See page 27 for the equivalent measure on an IFRS basis, which is replacement cost profit before interest and tax.
Bob Dudley See Certain denitions on page 98 for further information on Group Chief Executive underlying profit.
b See footnote e on page 21 for a denition of free cash ow.
6 March 2013 Business review: Group overview 11 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Energy outlook Looking ahead, we expect demand for energy to grow and the challenges facing our industry to be met by a diverse mix of fuels and technologies.
Our market in 2012 World economic growth was weak in 2012 Globally, rening margins improved on average below its historic trend and we expect as renery closures and operational issues subdued global growth to continue in 2013. reduced product supply.
Demand continues to Emerging economies with stronger productivity grow in non-OECD countries but the weak and rising populations, led by China and India, financial environment in OECD countries has are set to drive growth.
Developed countries seen demand growth weaken.
may lag as they continue to address internal scal imbalances.
Rening margins Global demand for energy, including oil, For more information on the BP rening continued to expand modestly in 2012, with marker margin and other measures see a weak economy and high oil prices weighing page 73. on demand.
Crude oil and gas prices, and rening As a result, the growth in world oil consumption Concerns about the volatility of commodity margins $ per barrel of oil equivalent remained weak in 2012, with continued growth and financial markets, energy security and Dated Brent oil price Henry Hub gas price First of Month Index in China and other non-OECD countries climate change have led to continued debate Average rening marker margin RMM offsetting yet another decline in OECD over the appropriate role of markets, countries.
With oil markets balancing lower government regulation and other policy 150 production from certain countries against weak measures that affect the supply and 125 consumption and high OPEC production, consumption of energy.
Given the pressures average crude oil prices in 2012 were similar to in the sector, we expect regulation and taxation 100 the previous year, averaging $111.67 per barrel.
of the energy industry and energy users to increase in many areas in the future.
75 Natural gas prices continued to diverge globally in 2012, with lower prices in the US and 50 increases in Europe and the Far East.
25 Crude prices For more information on crude oil and 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 natural gas prices see page 64.
See Downstream on page 73 for further information on RMM.
12 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview The facts and gures used in this section are Longer-term outlook Meeting the energy challenge derived from BP Energy Outlook 2030, published We believe that, increasingly, the global energy Challenges and opportunities in January 2013, unless otherwise indicated, and challenge can only be met through a diverse mix represent a base case or most likely projection.
The worlds population is projected to increase of fuels and technologies.
A broad mix can by 1.3 billion from 2011 to 2030, with real enhance national and global energy security income likely to double over the same period.
For more information see while supporting the transition to a lower-carbon These factors will lead to increased energy bp.
This is one reason why BPs portfolio demand and consumption.
Energy and climate includes oil sands, shale gas, deepwater oil and policies, efficiency gains and a long-term natural gas production, biofuels and wind.
structural shift in fast-growing economies away We estimate that todays oil reserves could from industry and towards less energy-intensive meet more than 45 years of demand at current activities will help to restrain any increase, but Energy consumption by region consumption rates, while known supplies of the overall trend is likely to be one of strong billion tonnes of oil equivalent natural gas could meet demand for nearly 60 growth.
We expect demand for energy to Non-OECD years and coal could meet demand for up to increase by as much as 36% between 2011 and a OECD 120 years.
2030, with nearly 93% of the growth to occur in 18 non-OECD countries.
Our industry has a track record in expanding the 16 availability of resources through investment and We estimate that there are enough energy 14 the application of technology.
For example, in resources available to meet the increases in 12 1981 the worlds oil reserves stood at an demand in the foreseeable future, but there will 10 estimated 700 billion barrels.
By 2011 this had be challenges as well as opportunities.
8 risen to 1,650 billion barrels, even though 6 Energy security represents a challenge.
More 800 billion barrels had been consumed in the 4 than 60% of the worlds natural gas is intervening three decades.
2 concentrated in just four countries.
More than Oil and natural gas 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 80% of global oil reserves are located in nine We believe oil and natural gas are likely to Source: BP Energy Outlook 2030. countries, most of which are well away from the represent about 53% of total energy hubs of energy consumption.
Even under the Meeting growing demand for secure and International Energy Agencys IEA most Energy consumption by fuel sustainable energy will also present an ambitious climate policy scenario the 450 billion tonnes of oil equivalent affordability challenge as the availability of easily scenario, oil and gas would still make up 50% accessible fossil fuels slowly diminishes, with Renewables Nuclear Gas of the energy mix in 2030, with combined Hydro Coal Oil many lower-carbon resources and technologies demand projected to exceed current levels in remaining costly to produce at scale.
The 450 scenario assumes 18 governments adopt commitments to limit the 16 While energy is available to meet growing long-term concentration of greenhouse gases in 14 demand, action is needed to limit carbon dioxide the atmosphere to 450 parts-per-million of CO 12 CO and other greenhouse gases being 2 2 10 equivalent.
emitted through fossil fuel use.
Burning fossil 8 fuels can also raise local and regional air quality a 6 BP Statistical Review of World Energy June 2012.
reserve estimates are compiled from ofcial sources and other 4 third-party data, which may not be based on proved reserves 2 as dened by SEC rules.
% 1.6 per annum Projected world primary energy consumption growth to 2030.
In the US, our biofuels business is focusing on the development of cellulosic ethanol technology at facilities in San Diego, California right and Jennings, Louisiana.
Business review: Group overview 13 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 New sources of hydrocarbons are more difficult Policy, prices and access to reach, extract and process.
This will require If the worlds growing demand for energy is to BP and others in our industry to develop new be met in a sustainable way, we believe that technologies to boost recovery from declining governments must set a stable and enduring elds and commercialize currently inaccessible framework for the private sector to invest and resources.
Greater energy intensity could be for consumers to choose wisely.
As part of this, required to extract these resources, which governments will need to provide secure access means operating costs and greenhouse gas for exploration and development of energy emissions from operations are likely to increase.
resources: define mutual benets for resource owners and development partners: and Renewables establish and maintain an appropriate legal and Renewable energy is the fastest growing fuel regulatory environment.
and is projected to grow by 7.6% per annum to We believe open and competitive markets are 2030.
Renewable energies are starting from a low base however, and we project that they are the most effective way to encourage companies Science not sentiment to nd, produce and distribute diverse forms of only likely to meet around 6% of total energy demand by 2030.
With a few exceptions, energy sustainably.
The US experience with A BP-funded consortium of experts from shale gas shows how an open and competitive renewables are not yet competitive with leading universities around the world is conventional power and transportation fuels.
environment can drive technological innovation examining the complex relationships between and unlock resources.
We also believe that sufficient policy support is required to help natural resources and the supply and use of commercialize effective lower-carbon options putting a price on carbon one that treats all energy.
The aim of this multidisciplinary carbon equally, whether it comes out of an and technologies, but renewables will ultimately research programme the Energy need to become free from subsidy and industrial smokestack or a car exhaust will Sustainability Challenge ESC is to provide make energy efficiency and conservation more commercially self-sustaining.
scientific evidence to underpin effective policy attractive to businesses and individuals, and Energy efficiency and innovation making and business planning.
lower-carbon energy sources more cost While overall energy consumption is set to competitive.
The ESC is concentrating on the nexus of land, increase, economic growth is expected to water, minerals and energy.
It is hoped this become signicantly less energy intensive, Beyond 2030 work will help the world to develop especially in non-OECD economies.
In fact, We expect that growing population and per sustainable energy pathways founded on globally, demand for energy is expected to rise capita incomes will continue to drive growing science rather than sentiment.
We anticipate at less than half the rate of gross domestic demand for energy.
These dynamics will be it will provide BP with greater clarity on how product GDP.
The amount of energy required shaped by future technology developments, sustainability should inform our planning, to generate $1 million in China has already changes in tastes, and future policy choices investments and operations.
dropped from 350 tonnes of oil equivalent in all of which are inherently uncertain.
Concerns 1980 to 200 tonnes of oil equivalent or less about energy security, affordability and today.
com  environmental impacts are all likely to be Innovation can play a key role in improving important considerations.
These factors may accelerate the trend towards more diverse technology design, process and use of materials, bringing down cost and increasing sources of energy supply, a lower average carbon footprint, increased efficiency and efficiency.
In transport, for example, we believe that efficient combustion engines and power demand management.
train technologies could offer the quickest and BP is sensitive to the challenges and most effective pathway to a secure, loweropportunities outlined here.
We actively monitor carbon future.
developments and continually assess a range of potential outcomes and their implications for our strategy.
% 93 Non-OECD countries share of energy consumption growth to 2030.
% 45 Net growth in unconventional global energy production from 2020 to 2030.
14 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview Our business model Through our business model we aim to create value across the hydrocarbon value chain.
This starts with exploration and ends with the supply of energy and other products fundamental to everyday life.
BP is the largest foreign investor in Azerbaijan and operates two production-sharing We also hold a 50% shareholding in the major agreements  and Shah Who we are Russian oil company TNK-BP, which owns Deniz and other exploration leases.
Above is BP is one of the worlds leading integrated oil upstream and downstream assets.
In a the West Azeri platform.
We aim to create value November, marking what we expect to be an for shareholders by helping to meet growing exciting new future for BP in Russia, we signed demand for energy in a responsible way.
We final, binding agreements with Rosneft, Russias strive to be a safety leader in our industry, a leading oil company, for the sale of our share in world-class operator, a responsible corporate TNK-BP for $12.3 billion in cash which includes citizen and a good employer.
a dividend of $0.7 billion received from TNK-BP Through our work we provide customers in December 2012 and an 18.5% stake in with fuel for transportation, energy for heat Rosneft.
The transaction is expected to and light, lubricants to keep engines moving, complete in the first half of 2013.
Combined and the petrochemicals products used to make with BPs existing 1.25% shareholding, this will everyday items as diverse as paints, clothes and result in BP owning 19.75% of Rosneft.
Our projects and operations help to In renewable energy, our investments and generate employment, investment and tax activities are focused on biofuels and wind.
revenues in countries and communities around In addition, our emerging businesses and the world.
ventures unit invests in a broad range of energy At each stage of the hydrocarbon value chain projects and technologies.
Our renewables and there are opportunities for us to create value venturing activities are managed through our both through the successful execution of Alternative Energy business, which is reported activities that are core to our industry, and through in Other businesses and corporate on page 82. the application of our own distinctive strengths Our commitments and capabilities in performing those activities.
Keeping a relentless focus on safety is the top How we are organized priority for everyone at BP.
We have two main business segments: Rigorous management of risk helps to Upstream and Downstream.
Through these we protect the people at the front line, the places nd, develop and produce essential sources of in which we operate and the value we create.
energy, and turn these sources into products We understand that operating in politically that people need.
complex regions and technically demanding a On the basis of market capitalization, proved reserves geographies requires particular sensitivity to and production.
Business review: Group overview 15 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 The relationships we form with shareholders, Our business model continued Our presence governments, regulators, non-governmental As a global group, our interests and activities organizations, local communities, customers, Location of groups xed assets are held or operated through subsidiaries, franchisees, partners, contractors, suppliers and branches, joint ventures or associates 1.
OECD 64% others in our industry are crucial to the success 1 2.
Non-OECD 36% established in and subject to the laws and of our business.
We are committed to building regulations of many different jurisdictions.
long-lasting relationships, meeting our obligations Our worldwide headquarters is in London.
The UK is a centre for trading, legal, finance We believe that the best way to achieve and other business functions as well as three 2 sustainable success as a group is to act in the of BPs major global research and technology long-term interests of our shareholders, our groups.
We have well-established operations partners and society.
Through our work we in Europe, the US, Canada, Russia, South aim to create value for our investors and America, Australasia, Asia and parts of Africa.
US 39% benets for the communities and societies BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real 1 2.
Non-US 61% in which we operate, with the safe and estate in numerous countries, but no individual responsible supply of energy playing a vital property is significant to the group as a whole.
For more on the significant subsidiaries of the group at 31 December 2012 and the group Our people percentage of ordinary share capital see Note 45 We employ nearly 86,000 people, including on page 255.
For information on significant jointly 2 14,700 service station staff in Europe and controlled entities and associates of the group, Asia.
The majority of our employees are see Notes 24 and 25 on pages 218-220. located in the US and Europe.
The qualities Value creation and abilities of our employees have a powerful effect on our ability to compete and meet our We seek to add value at each stage of our commitments to investors and the wider operations, from exploration to marketing.
We provide a range of professional We believe that by operating across the full development programmes and training to hydrocarbon value chain we can create more help our employees develop their skills and value for shareholders, as benets and costs capabilities.
We are committed to creating an can often be shared by our segments.
inclusive work environment where everyone is Integration also enables us to develop shared treated fairly, with dignity, respect and without functional excellence in areas such as safety discrimination.
and operational risk, environmental and social practices, procurement, technology and treasury management more efficiently.
Our employees For more on BPs employees in 2012 see pages 55-56.
Material improvement Puried terephthalic acid PTA is the primary raw material for polyester, which is used in textiles and packaging.
Our proprietary PTA technology has signicantly lower capital and operating costs compared with conventional PTA plants.
Our estimates suggest that it discharges 75% less water, generates 65% lower greenhouse gas emissions and 95% lower solids waste compared with competing technologies.
We have invested signicantly in this proprietary technology and believe that maximum value for BP will come from both investing in projects such as our Zhuhai 3 project in Guangdong, China and through licensing.
We announced our first third-party, non-afliate, PTA licensing deal in July to JBF Petrochemicals.
They intend to build a 1.25 million tonnes per annum PTA unit in India expected onstream at the end of 2014.
Our work with PTA is part of an ongoing research and development programme designed to improve the manufacturing efficiency in petrochemicals.
Along with PTA, we have industry leading technology, intellectual property and know-how in paraxylene and acetic acid.
16 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview Salt reduction promises healthy returns Typically, less than 35% of the oil in a eld is extracted, even when wells are ooded with water to increase recovery.
That means important resources are currently left untapped, all over the world.
The LoSal ooding process is set to signicantly improve recovery rates.
Developed at BPs UK research centre, the LoSal ooding process uses water with a low salt content, which releases more molecules of oil from the sandstone rock in which they are held.
Following a successful trial in the Endicott eld in Alaska, we are applying LoSal where appropriate in our portfolio.
In 2012 Clair Ridge in the North Sea became the first large-scale offshore scheme to deploy the technology.
BP estimates that this breakthrough technology part of BPs suite of Designer Water enhanced oil recovery technologies will increase production by around 42 million barrels of additional oil, compared with conventional water ooding methods.
We aim to protect value by maintaining a Our distinctive strengths rigorous focus on safety, reliability and and capabilities efficiency across our range of activities.
We We consider our areas of distinctive strength to often work with partners to mitigate risk or gain include: from complementary skills.
t Exploration acquiring access and searching Finding oil and gas for hydrocarbons.
First, we acquire the rights to explore for oil t Deep water we have a long track record and gas.
Through new access we are able to in nding, developing and producing renew our portfolio, discover new resources hydrocarbons in deep water.
and replenish our development options.
t Giant elds managing the scale and Developing and extracting oil and gas complexity of elds with resources believed to a When we are successful in nding hydrocarbon exceed 500 million boe.
resources, we create value by seeking to t Gas value chains seeking to add value as progress them into proved reserves or by gas moves from eld to customer.
selling them on if they do not t with our t Downstream the pursuit of safe, reliable and strategic objectives.
efficient operations, and leading returns, across fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals.
If we believe developing and producing the reserves will be advantageous for BP, we will These are underpinned by our development produce the oil and gas, then sell it to the and application of technology and our ability market or distribute it to our downstream to build strong relationships.
have a long-established integrated supply and trading function.
Transporting and trading oil and gas We move oil and gas through pipelines and Strong relationships by ship, truck and rail.
We use our trading We are seeing an evolution in our industry, and supply skills and knowledge to nd the with international oil companies such as BP best routes to deliver supplies to the most establishing new kinds of partnerships and attractive markets.
co-operation with governments, national oil companies and other resource holders.
The Manufacturing and marketing fuels benets of our value-creating activity are and products shared with governments and other partners.
Using our technology and expertise, we manufacture fuels and products, creating value We seek opportunities to develop and deploy by seeking to operate a high-quality portfolio of distinctive capabilities that complement those well-located assets safely, reliably and efficiently.
We also partner with universities Our business model We market our products to consumers and other and governments in pursuit of improving the For more information see BP at a glance end-users and add value through the strength of technologies available to us, so we can enhance on pages 4-5. our brands.
our operations and develop new products.
We aim to support and improve standards in our a Actual amount of proved reserves of such elds on a basis recognized by the SEC may be less than this.
Business review: Group overview 17 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Upstream technology agships Field of the Future Inherently reliable facilities Well advisor Applying real-time Managing and reducing BP deliver safe, reliable data capabilities to integrity risk.
and efficient well operations enable safe and through the integration efficient operations.
Deepwater facilities Delivering fully qualied integrated production technology solutions that safely maximise value from Advanced seismic imaging BPs deepwater portfolio.
Locating and accessing new resource through industry-leading imaging.
Unconventional gas Recovering gas from unconventional rocks using innovative technologies.
Heavy oil Developing new technologies Beyond sand control Pushing Reservoir Limits to recover heavy oil.
Maximizing production Growing recovery factors and managing risk from to maximize resources sand-prone reservoirs.
industry by participating in industry bodies, Upstream Technology engaging with our peers on important issues, For more on the role of technology at BP Our Upstream segment is responsible for our and where appropriate setting voluntary see pages 57-59. activities in oil and natural gas exploration, standards above those required by current eld development and production, and regulation.
And we carry out regular reviews midstream transportation, storage and and audit processes with contractors and Upstream processing.
We also market and trade natural suppliers, which help to maintain strong links For more on our upstream activities in 2012 gas, including liqueed natural gas, power across our operations and activities.
see pages 63-71. and natural gas liquids.
We focus on areas Technology that play to our strengths, particularly We believe our development and application exploration, deep water, gas value chains and of technology is central to our reputation and giant elds.
For us, technology is the practical application of scientific knowledge In 2012 our upstream and midstream activities to manage risks, capture business value and took place in 28 countries including Angola, inform strategy development.
This includes the Azerbaijan, Canada, Egypt, Norway, Trinidad & research, development, demonstration and Tobago, the UK, the US and other locations within acquisition of new technical capabilities and Asia, Australasia, South America, North Africa support for the deployment of BPs know-how.
We increased our acreage in Trinidad & Tobago, Our investments are focused on access to where our production comprises oil, gas and Our Upstream segment manages its exploration, resources, process efficiency, product NGLs, by 889,000 acres in 2012.
Below is the development and production activities through formulation and lower-carbon opportunities.
We Rowan drilling platform, offshore Trinidad.
global functions with specialist areas of expertise.
monitor the potential opportunities and risks presented by emerging science, interdisciplinary We actively manage our portfolio and are placing innovation and new players: natural resource increasing emphasis on accessing, developing issues and climate concerns: and evolving and producing from elds able to provide policy, including the current emphasis on energy high-margin barrels those with the potential to security and efficiency.
make the greatest contribution to our operating cash ow.
We sell assets when we believe they BPs technology advisory council, comprised may be more valuable to others.
This allows us to of eminent business and academic technology focus our leadership, technical resources and leaders, provides the board and executive organizational capability on the resources we management with an independent view of BPs believe are likely to add the most value to our capabilities judged against the highest industrial portfolio.
Our upstream technologies support BPs Supply and trading business strategy by focusing on safety and We buy and sell at each stage in the value operational risks, helping to obtain new access, chain to optimize value for the group, often increasing recovery and reserves and improving selling our own production and buying from production efficiency.
Our strengths in elsewhere to satisfy demand from our reneries exploration, deep water, giant elds and gas value and customers.
We also aim to create value chains are underpinned by dedicated agship through entrepreneurial trading, where our technology programmes.
presence across major energy trading hubs gives us a good understanding of regional and international markets.
18 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview Downstream technology Rening technology Optimizes crude oil selection, utilization and renery processing capability to produce high-quality petroleum products.
End products: fuels, oils, bitumen, coke.
Fuels technology Develops and implements new high-efficiency fuel products.
End products: gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel, marine fuel.
Lubricants technology Develops unique lubricants and high-performance uids for transportation and industrial applications.
Petrochemicals technology Develops, deploys and optimizes proprietary technologies to produce high-value petrochemicals intermediates.
End products: Conversion technology solvents resins, plastics, Conversion of unconventional textiles bres, paints.
feedstocks, including renewables, to fuels and petrochemicals.
co-engineered with Ford during the Downstream Downstream development of its newly released EcoBoost For more on our downstream activities Our Downstream segment is the product engine, which offers a significant improvement in 2012 see pages 72-79. and service-led arm of BP, focused on fuels, in efficiency.
It is The segment comprises three businesses: responsible for the rening, manufacturing, fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals, each of marketing, transportation, and supply and which operates as a value chain.
trading of crude oil, petroleum, petrochemicals products and related services to wholesale and Our fuels business sells rened petroleum retail customers.
products including gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel and liqueed petroleum gas.
Within the fuels business, fuels value chains integrate the The Downstream segment markets products in activities of rening, logistics, marketing, and over 70 countries and has significant operations supply and trading on a regional basis.
in Europe, North America, Australasia and Asia.
This provides the opportunity to optimize our We also manufacture and market our products activities from crude oil purchases to across southern Africa and Central and South end-consumer sales all the way through America.
our reneries, terminals, pipelines and retail We aim to be excellent in the markets in which stations.
The lubricants business is focusing on the growth we choose to participate those that allow BP markets of Brazil, India and China.
Below, a Our lubricants business is involved in to serve the major energy markets of the world.
Castrol laboratory technician in Brazil, where manufacturing and marketing lubricants and Our aim is to operate all of our businesses as Castrol lubricants have been sold since the 1950s.
related services to markets around the world.
safe and reliable value chains, where we We add value through the strength of our participate in multiple stages of each supply brands and through strategic collaboration with chain, as we believe that way we can deliver original equipment manufacturing partners greater returns than would arise from owning where we seek to develop new higha collection of discrete assets.
These value performance lubricants such as Castrol EDGE.
chains, combined with our advantaged manufacturing operations and expertise in Our global petrochemicals business technology, allow us to pursue competitive manufactures and markets petrochemicals that returns and sustainable growth, as we serve are used in many everyday products, such as customers and promote BP and our brands paints, plastic bottles and textiles.
Value is through high quality products.
As in our derived from our strong customer relationships Upstream segment, we will sell assets when and joint-venture partners, and through the we believe that to do so would generate more application of our world-class, proprietary value than retaining them in our own portfolio.
Technology makes a critical contribution to our downstream activities.
Through the research, development and deployment of a wide range of technologies, processes and techniques, we aim to enhance safety and risk management, improve our margins, increase efficiency and reliability, and create new market opportunities.
For example, in lubricants we launched an oil Business review: Group overview 19 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Our strategy Through our strategy we aim to create a distinctive platform for value growth over the long term.
Our seismic technology helps minimize eld appraisal and development risk.
The above In 2011 we put forward a 10-point plan that model of a hydrocarbon eld in the Gulf of Our strategic priorities outlined what could be expected from BP over Mexico shows large salt deposits obscuring Our aim is to be an oil and gas company the next three years.
During 2012 we worked a hydrocarbon reservoir.
that grows over the long term.
We will seek towards the milestones we had set out for to continually enhance safety and risk 2014.
We rened our plans and communicated management, earn and keep peoples trust, further information on our longer-term and create value for shareholders.
We will strategic objectives beyond 2014. continue to simplify our organization and ne Through this work and the actions taken to tune the portfolio.
We will focus on efficient strengthen the group, BP enters 2013 a more execution in our operations and our use of focused oil and gas company with promising capital.
We will build capability through the opportunities and a clear plan for the future.
pursuit of greater standardization and BPs strengthened position, distinctive increased functional expertise.
capabilities, strong financial framework and Upstream portfolio simplication BP Energy Outlook 2030 projects that world We have divested a significant proportion vision for the future provide the foundation demand for energy will continue to grow.
In of our operated assets while still retaining for our long-term strategy.
This strategy is helping to meet this demand, BP has a large a virtually all our future major projects and intended to ensure BP is well positioned for suite of opportunities the legacy of years of around 90% of our proved reserves.
success in gaining access to and developing resources.
This allows us to select and invest b Our financial framework Divested Retained in those projects with the potential to provide a 110 20,000 18,000 13 We expect our organic capital expenditure the highest returns.
We will prioritize value to be in the range of $24-27 billion per year rather than seek to grow production volume 90% through to the end of the decade, with for its own sake.
We will concentrate on investment prioritized towards the Upstream higher quality assets in both our Upstream and 68% segment.
All investments will continue to be Downstream segments, starting with safety subject to a rigorous capital allocation review and the delivery of strong and growing cash 50% 50% process.
We expect to make around $2-3 billion of a Organic capital expenditure excludes acquisitions and asset divestments per year in order to constantly exchanges.
b b See footnote d on page 21. optimize our portfolio.
We will target gearing in the 10-20% range while uncertainties Operated Operated Operated Reserves installations wells pipelines km bn boe remain.
Our intention is to increase a shareholder distributions in line with BPs See pages 67-71 for information on our major Upstream projects.
20 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview The Skarv oating production, storage and ofoading unit one of the major project start-ups in 2012 on tow in a Norwegian fjord.
10-point plan Launched in October 2011 and set out in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011, our 10-point plan described our intentions for building a stronger, safer BP.
What you can expect 1 A relentless focus on safety and managing risk through the systematic application of global standards.
2 We will play to our strengths in exploration, deep water, giant elds and gas value chains.
3 Stronger and more focused with an asset base that is high graded and higher performing.
4 Simpler and more standardized with fewer assets and operations in fewer countries: more We will pursue new opportunities by applying conventional and unconventional resources.
streamlined internal reward and performance our distinctive strengths of relationships, We expect to continue to invest in giant management processes.
technology and a strong balance sheet.
Our elds, where this expertise is particularly 5 Improved transparency through reporting TNK-BP past experience of co-ordinating complex valuable.
as a separate segment and breaking out the numbers for the three downstream businesses.
projects around the world can help us to gain We believe our ability to integrate complex access to new areas.
gas value chains is another key strength.
What you can measure We intend to hold a portfolio of gas positions 6 Active portfolio management to continue by selected according to expected returns, with completing $38 billion of disposals over the four Business model years to the end of 2013, in order to focus on our a balance across conventional and For more information on our distinctive strengths.
We will optimize these strengths and how we create value see 7 We expect to bring new upstream projects through our trading activities.
pages 15-19. a onstream with unit operating cash margins around b We are committed to Russia and the Middle double the 2011 average by 2014.
East areas where we have a long history.
8 We are aiming to generate an increase of around 50% Upstream in net cash provided by operating activities by 2014 Downstream c compared with 2011.
Our analysis indicates that oil offers us the We believe BP has world-class downstream most attractive opportunities.
Our investments 9 We intend to use half our incremental operating operations with a strong and improving track cash for reinvestment, half for other purposes.
will therefore be biased to oil.
We also believe record of performance in recent years.
We there will be opportunities to create high 10 Strong balance sheet with intention to target our will continue to focus on safe and reliable d level of gearing in the lower half of the 10-20% returns from advantaged gas assets.
operations and excellent execution, together range over time.
with disciplined investment and portfolio We have a long track record of value creation management.
Our focus on portfolio quality through exploration.
We will invest in our will include improving the margin capability of strong incumbent positions and look for new all of our businesses, and a focus on investing opportunities.
Deepwater developments can in attractive markets.
provide good opportunities for companies with the requisite expertise.
We will utilize our As the world changes, we expect to increase scale and capability as we invest further in this our exposure to growth markets and demand area.
We believe we are able to manage scale from new consumers.
and complexity, and improve the recovery of a Unit cash margin is net cash provided by operating activities for Longer-term objectives the relevant projects in our Upstream segment, divided by the total number of barrels of oil and gas equivalent produced for the Maintain momentum on safety and risk reduction.
It excludes dividends and production for TNK-BP.
Develop and apply new technologies that access new hydrocarbons or extract and b Assuming a constant oil price of $100 per barrel.
c Assuming an oil price of $100 per barrel and a Henry Hub gas price of $5 mmBtu in 2014.
The projection assumes the Upstream completion of the agreed transaction with Rosneft and receipt of the projected Rosneft dividend and excludes BPs share of the Generate strong returns within a disciplined financial framework.
TNK-BP dividends from operating cash ow for 2011 and 2014.
The projection includes BPs payment commitments under the Deliver growth through increased reinvestment in higher return opportunities.
Department of Justice and SEC settlements.
It does not reect any cash ows relating to other liabilities, contingent liabilities, Maintain our strong incumbent positions and a diversied portfolio of deep water, giant elds settlements or contingent assets arising from the Gulf of Mexico and gas value chains.
oil spill which may or may not arise at that time.
We are not able to reliably estimate the amount or timing of a number of Build material new positions for the long term.
See Financial statements Note 43 on page 253 for further information.
d Downstream Gearing refers to the ratio of the groups net debt to net debt plus equity and is a non-GAAP measure.
See Financial e Grow free cash ow.
statements Note 35 on page 234 for further information including a reconciliation to gross debt, which is the nearest Reduce our exposure to rening when not part of an integrated value chain.
equivalent measure on an IFRS basis.
e Free cash ow: net cash provided by operating activities less Re-orientate the geographic mix of our downstream footprint to growth markets.
net cash used in investing activities.
Business review: Group overview 21 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Our performance 2012 saw BP build on the strong foundations laid in the previous year.
Despite facing major uncertainties, we made progress against our 10-point plan and are reshaping our portfolio to increase efficiency, margins and cash ows.
In 2012 our reneries particularly Toledo During the year we made progress in our priority drive improvements to operational safety and areas of enhancing safety and risk management, reliability with enhanced independent above and Whiting in the US benefited from restoring trust by meeting our commitments in assurance, improved engineering and operating a location advantage, as they were able to the Gulf of Mexico and delivering higher returns practices, and training and coaching access discounted crudes.
for shareholders, as evidenced by the increases in programmes.
Our single global wells quarterly dividend announced in 2012 see organization is driving greater consistency BP has been in Azerbaijan since 1992 and is the Dividends on page 25.
We worked to resolve the across our operations.
Our performance and largest foreign investor in the country.
Our uncertainties facing the company in the US and reward system is reinforcing that everyone at assets include the West Chirag production and Russia.
We continued the major programme of BP is responsible for safe operations.
drilling platform right which is due to start up divestments announced in 2010, which we in late 2013.
BPs operating management system OMS believe is making BP a more efficient organization.
provides us with a systematic and controlled And we made investments in areas where we approach to the way the companys operating believe we have advantages and higher margin facilities are managed.
All of our operations, opportunities.
Safety remained our number one with the exception of those recently acquired, priority throughout the year, across the company.
are now applying OMS and working to conform We reached the majority of the 2012 milestones to these group-wide standards and practices.
that we set out when we launched our 10-point We continue to make progress on all of the plan in October 2011 see 2012 in summary and remaining recommendations from the Bly Report.
believe we are on course to improve our As of December 2012, the total number of margins and cash ow by 2014. completed recommendations was 14 out of 26.
Safety Independent advice and monitoring We continued our work to enhance safety and In June 2012 we appointed Carl Sandlin to risk management in everything we do.
In track the companys implementation of the personal safety, sadly, we had four fatalities in recommendations of the Bly Report, our internal our operations during 2012.
We reported 43 Tier investigation into the Deepwater Horizon incident.
1 process safety events in 2012 and 74 in 2011.
He brings extensive experience in overseeing Loss of primary containment was reduced by global drilling operations.
In this role, he will 19% compared with 2011.
We continued our provide an objective and independent assessment programme of major upstream turnarounds, to the board of BPs progress against the reports with 30 turnarounds completed in 2012.
He will also observe and expect to carry out up to 22 further turnarounds report on process safety culture.
Safety Following legal settlements with the US For more information on our safety Over the past 12 months, our safety and government, BP has agreed to take additional performance see pages 46-50. operational risk function S&OR continued to actions, enforceable by the court, to further 22 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview of response covered in the Shoreline Clean-up enhance the safety of drilling operations in the a $ Completion Plan, 4,029 miles 6,484km were Gulf of Mexico see US regulatory update on 20 billion deemed complete by the end of 2012. page 24.
These actions include the Total BP payments made to the appointment of two monitors, both with terms We have continued to promote economic recovery Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust fund.
A process safety monitor will by resolving legitimate claims and providing review, evaluate, and provide recommendations support to two of the regions most important for the improvement of BPs process safety industries tourism and seafood.
In the fourth and risk management procedures concerning $ quarter we made a final payment into the 11.6 billion deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust fund Trust, a An ethics monitor will review and provide BPs profit in 2012. bringing our total payments to $20 billion.
The Trust recommendations for the improvement of BPs and BP had paid a total of $11.7 billion in claims, code of conduct and its implementation and advances and other payments by the end of 2012. enforcement.
Additionally, an independent Settlement reached with PSC $ third-party auditor will review and report on 12.0 billion In April we announced we had reached BPs implementation of key terms of the a b BPs replacement cost profit in 2012. denitive and fully documented agreements agreement, including procedures and systems with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC a related to safety and environmental profit attributable to BP shareholders.
This is the to resolve the substantial majority of eligible measure of profit required for the group under IFRS.
management, operational oversight, and oil spill b Replacement cost profit reects the replacement cost private economic loss and medical claims response training and drills.
of supplies and, for the group, is not a recognized stemming from the Deepwater Horizon GAAP measure.
Trust accident and oil spill.
The agreements were approved by the court in December 2012 and BP has continued to meet its commitments January 2013 although BP is challenging a to the Gulf Coast.
During the year we worked recent ruling by the court regarding the with state and federal trustees to assess impacts interpretation of certain protocols established in on natural resources and progress early the economic and property damages settlement environmental restoration work.
See Legal proceedings on page 167. independent research through the Gulf of Mexico The settlement includes BPs commitment of Research Initiative, so we can better understand $2.3 billion to help resolve economic loss claims and mitigate the potential impacts of future oil related to the Gulf seafood industry.
And we continued to clean up the Gulf shoreline, which involved responding promptly a Approved by the US Coast Guards Federal On-Scene when Hurricane Isaac brought deposits of buried Coordinator, the Shoreline Clean-up Completion Plan sets residual oil to the surface at some beaches.
Of standards for the surveying, verication and completion of clean-up activities.
the 4,376 miles 7,043km that were in the area 2012 in summary We drew our TNK-BP partnership in Russia to a close through an agreed transaction with Rosneft, which will provide BP with a net $12.3 billion in cash which includes a dividend of High-margin production was brought back $0.7 billion received from TNK-BP in December 2012 and an additional 18.5% share in onstream in 2012 in Angola where the Deepsea Rosneft, bringing our total shareholding to 19.75%.
Stavanger rig is currently operating at the Greater We took the total of asset sales announced since the start of 2010 to around $38 billion, Plutonio development.
effectively reaching our target a year early.
In 2012 we completed the acquisition of Shell and We gained new exploration access in six countries.
Cosan Industria e Commercios interests in Our 2012 reserves replacement ratio, on a combined basis of subsidiaries and equityaviation fuels assets at seven Brazilian airports, accounted entities, excluding acquisitions and disposals, was 77%, with net additions to which is an important growth market below.
reserves in 2012 being wholly from equity-accounted entities see page 86.
The following points relate to particular milestones we set for 2012: High-margin production was brought back onstream successfully in Angola, the North Sea and other regions during 2012.
Exploration drilling activity took place at nine wells against a target of 12 because additional time was required to ensure the rigs meet our enhanced safety standards.
Five major project start-ups were achieved against a target of six : at Galapagos in the Gulf of Mexico: Clochas Mavacola and block 31 in PSVM in Angola: Devenick in the North Sea: and Skarv in Norway.
The Angola LNG plant is being commissioned and is expected to start production in 2013.
Seven rigs were operational in the Gulf of Mexico in 2012 against a target of eight.
An eighth rig is in place on the Mad Dog platform and is being commissioned and tested.
It is expected to start up in 2013.
We made the final payment to the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust, taking total payments to the Trust to $20 billion.
In Downstream, we were unable to fully deliver the $2 billion of financial performance b improvement since 2009, which we had identied as an opportunity in 2010, due mainly to a significant reduction in the supply and trading contribution in 2012. c Organic capital expenditure during the year was $23.1 billion compared with our original expectation of around $22 billion.
b See page 75 for further information on Downstreams performance improvement, which is a non-GAAP measure.
c Organic capital expenditure excludes acquisitions and asset exchanges and, in 2012, expenditure associated with deepening our US natural gas and North Sea asset bases see footnote b on page 35. Business review: Group overview 23 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Our performance continued significant uncertainties exist in relation to the relating to the loss of 11 lives: one amount of claims that are to be paid and will misdemeanour count under the Clean Water become payable through the claims process.
Act: one misdemeanour count under the US legal proceedings There is significant uncertainty in relation to the Migratory Bird Treaty Act: and one felony count amounts that ultimately will be paid in relation to of obstruction of Congress.
BP will pay $4 billion For more information on our US settlements current claims, and the number, type and including criminal fines and payments to the for criminal and securities claims amounts payable for claims not yet reported.
In National Fish & Wildlife Foundation and the see pages 162-171. addition, there is further uncertainty in relation National Academy of Sciences in instalments to interpretations of the claims administrator over a period of five years.
The court also Financial review regarding the protocols under the settlement ordered, as previously agreed with the US For more on our performance in 2012 agreement and judicial interpretation of these government, that BP serve a term of five years see pages 34-37. protocols, and the outcomes of any further probation.
BP has agreed to take additional litigation including in relation to potential opt-outs actions, enforceable by the court, to further from the settlement or otherwise.
The PSC enhance the safety of drilling operations in the settlement is uncapped except for economic loss Gulf of Mexico.
These activities relate to BPs claims related to the Gulf seafood industry.
There risk management processes, such as third-party can be no certainty as to how BPs challenge to auditing and verication, training, and well the courts ruling will ultimately be resolved or control equipment and processes such as determined.
To the extent that there are blowout preventers and cementing.
insufficient funds available in the Trust fund, BP reached a settlement with the SEC in payments under the PSC settlement will be made November 2012, resolving the SECs Deepwater by BP directly and charged to the income Horizon-related civil claims.
BP has agreed to a statement.
See Plaintiffs Steering Committee civil penalty of $525 million and to an injunction settlements on pages 60-61 for further prohibiting it from violating certain US securities information as well as Risk factors on pages 41-42 laws and regulations.
BP made its first payment and Financial statements Note 36 on page 235. of $175 million in December 2012.
See page 59 for information on the federal The US Environmental Protection Agency EPA multi-district litigation proceeding in New announced in November 2012 that it had Orleans MDL 2179, the first phase of which temporarily suspended BP p. l. c. and other BP began on 25 February 2013. companies from participating in new federal US regulatory update contracts.
As a result of the temporary suspension, the notied BP entities are During the year, the US Department of Justice DoJ continued to conduct an investigation into ineligible to receive any new US government contracts or renewal of an expiring contract.
The the Deepwater Horizon incident regarding possible violations of US civil and criminal laws.
Similarly, suspension does not affect existing contracts BP has with the US government, including the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC continued their investigation regarding those relating to current and ongoing drilling and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
In possible violations of US securities laws.
February 2013 the EPA issued a notice of BP reached an agreement with the US mandatory debarment for BP Exploration & government in November 2012 to resolve all Production Inc at its Houston headquarters.
federal criminal claims arising out of the 2 Mandatory debarment prevents that company 400,000km incident.
BP pleaded guilty to 11 felony counts from entering into new contracts or new leases of misconduct or neglect of ships ofcers New exploration acreage accessed since 2010.
A new chapter in the North Sea UK production in the North Sea has almost halved in the past 10 years.
But for BP the story is far from over.
Having produced some 5 billion barrels to date, we believe our assets could yield considerably more.
And there are excellent prospects of nding new opportunities too.
In response, we are working to get the most from existing elds, building new production and exploring for more.
2012 saw us make good progress.
We are on course with a five-year, $19-billion programme of investment in the UK North Sea, with our partners.
We achieved a planned start-up safely and on time.
And we sold a number of non-strategic assets.
BP is currently one of the largest producers of hydrocarbons in the UK.
Our investments mean we expect to be part of life in the North Sea for decades to come.
24 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview We made good progress on the Whiting renery modernization programme right in 2012, and the project is on track to come onstream in the second half of 2013.
BP is accelerating the commercialization of advanced biobutanol technology with partner Du Pont at a purpose-built development and demonstration facility at our Saltend site, near with the US government at those premises.
We Portfolio reshaped Hull, UK above.
continue to work with the EPA to resolve During the year we strengthened the groups suspension and debarment issues.
financial position, announcing further asset sales and, by the end of 2012, we had Value essentially reached our $38 billion target.
We achieved a profit of $11.6 billion in 2012 We began the divestment programme in 2010, compared with $25.7 billion in 2011.
Excluding increasing the focus of the companys core inventory holding gains, our replacement cost a portfolio on BPs areas of distinctive strength RC profit in 2012 was $12.0 billion compared and capability, while reducing operational with $23.9 billion in 2011.
We have since sold around 50% of non-operating items and fair value accounting b b our upstream installations, 32% of our wells and effects, our underlying RC profit was $17.6 50% of our pipelines, while only reducing our billion in 2012 compared with $21.7 billion in 2011. proved reserves base by approximately 10% Underlying RC profit is a measure closely tracked and our production by about 9%.
We have by management to evaluate BPs operating traded mature assets with declining cash ows performance and to make financial, strategic and so we can concentrate on assets with greater operating decisions.
c Our goal is to grow operating cash ow to In November 2012 we took a major step enable us to invest for future growth and forward in repositioning BP within Russia, increase distributions to shareholders.
This year agreeing to sell our 50% shareholding in we generated operating cash ow of $20.4 TNK-BP to Rosneft the worlds largest publicly billion, compared with $22.2 billion in 2011.
The traded oil company in terms of oil production cash outow in respect of the Gulf of Mexico oil and reserves.
Our intention is to use part of the spill reduced from $6.8 billion in 2011 to $2.4 cash proceeds from the agreed transaction to billion in 2012.
Cash and cash equivalents at the offset any dilution to BPs earnings per share.
Gross debt at 31 December 2012 was $48.8 billion compared Upstream with $44.2 billion at 31 December 2011.
Net a We reported RC profit before interest and tax of debt was $27.5 billion at 31 December 2012, d $22.5 billion, compared with $26.4 billion in leaving our gearing net debt ratio at 18.7% 2011.
After adjusting for non-operating items compared with 20.5% at the end of 2011.
We and fair value accounting effects, underlying RC continue to target gearing in the 10-20% range e profit before interest and tax was $19.4 billion while uncertainties remain.
in 2012, compared with $25.2 billion in 2011 Dividends reecting higher costs, lower production and Total dividends paid in 2012 were 33 cents per $ lower realizations.
22.5 billion share, up 18% compared with 2011 on a dollar Our Upstream segments replacement cost basis and 20% in sterling terms.
This equated a Replacement cost profit for the group is not a recognized profit before interest and tax in 2012. to a total cash distribution to shareholders of GAAP measure.
The equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is $5.3 billion during the year.
We announced two profit for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
See increases in the quarterly dividend during 2012 footnote b on page 34 and page 98 for further information.
b Underlying replacement cost profit and fair value accounting by 14%, to 8 cents per share, in February and Upstream effects are not recognized GAAP measures.
See pages 34, 37 by a further 12.5%, to 9 cents per share, in For more on the segments financial and 98 for further information.
These increases reected our c performance see page 65 and for Operating cash ow is shown in our cash ow statement confidence in the companys progress against as net cash provided by operating activities.
information on segmental changes affecting d Net debt and gearing are non-GAAP measures.
See footnote d the 10-point plan and our growing belief in its Upstream at the beginning of 2012 see on page 21 for further information.
See footnote b on page 34. Business review: Group overview 25 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Our performance continued Our focus on safe, reliable and compliant determine which project will be selected as the operations has translated into improvements in route to market, ahead of our final investment both personal and process safety.
We have decision on Shah Deniz.
We remain on course Downstream seen a 16% improvement in our days away from to start up the West Chirag production and work case frequency since the start of 2010, drilling platform in late 2013.
For more on the segments financial and a 22% improvement in our loss of primary performance see pages 74-75.
In the North Sea, 2012 saw high levels of containment incidents over the same period.
We achieved start-ups, sold a number We have continued to open up new exploration of non-strategic assets and moved forward with opportunities.
In 2012 we added almost a major programme of long-term investment 68,000 square kilometres approximately see A new chapter in the North Sea, page 24.
26,250 square miles of new acreage in Brazil, These actions reect our strategy of focusing on Canada, Egypt, Namibia and Uruguay: and in the higher margin projects.
Gulf of Mexico and Ohio in the US.
The Ohio Although uncertainties about the consequences acreage covers Utica Point Pleasant, a of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill remain, we believe promising shale basin.
Since 2010 we have that the Gulf of Mexico remains an important accessed around 400,000 square kilometres source of medium and long-term growth.
The $ 2.8 billion approximately 154,500 square miles of new sale of non-core assets in the region should acreage an area roughly the size of California.
Our Downstream segments replacement allow us to concentrate on our four operated This is more than double the acreage accessed cost profit before interest and tax in 2012. hubs, together with further exploration activity.
In our existing Gulf of Mexico hubs, 80% of our We made good progress in the four areas we estimated ultimate recovery is still in the ground.
believe most likely to provide us with higher We are also continuing our Paleogene appraisal % margin barrels Angola, Azerbaijan, the North programme of high temperature high pressure 94.8 Sea and the Gulf of Mexico.
reservoirs in the Lower Tertiary area.
Our Solomon rening availability in 2012.
In Angola, we started production at two projects Following an 18-month review that reassessed during 2012 see page 23.
We also continued a the technical and economic challenges involved programme of exploration and appraisal.
in developing the Liberty eld in Alaska safely and profitably, we announced in June that we In Azerbaijan, the Shah Deniz consortium a had suspended our development plans.
We are seven-member group led by BP selected working with regulators to develop alternative Nabucco West as the single pipeline option for plans for the eld.
the potential export of gas to Central Europe, while the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline was selected as the potential route for exports to Italy.
Negotiations on transit and marketing terms will Winning partnerships As an Ofcial Partner of the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, BP invested its resources and capabilities over four years to support the Games.
We formed partnerships with the Olympic and Paralympic Committees in the UK, US and seven other countries of strategic importance to BP.
We supported 60 athletes as they trained and competed.
We provided advanced fuels and engine oils for 5,000 ofcial vehicles and helped offset carbon emissions produced by over half a million spectators journeys.
We also brought the magic of the Olympic and Paralympic Games to millions through the Cultural Olympiad and the London 2012 Festival.
We believe our support to the Games enabled us to improve perceptions of BP and enhance our reputation, with communications and advertising raising public awareness of BPs contribution.
The Games also provided an opportunity to strengthen our relationships with many business partners from around the world, who took part in an immersive business experience using innovative visual techniques to demonstrate BP technology.
London 2012 was a huge source of inspiration for our employees too, with many having the opportunity to contribute their time and energy to its success.
26 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview announcing the sale of our operations in a Downstream further three countries in 2012.
RC profit before interest and tax for 2012 was In petrochemicals we sold our PTA interest in $2.8 billion, compared with $5.5 billion in 2011.
After adjusting for non-operating items and fair Malaysia during the year and made progress on major new projects in China and India.
We also value accounting effects, underlying RC profit b before interest and tax in 2012 was an all-time signed two licensing agreements for our proprietary petrochemicals technology see record of $6.4 billion compared with $6.0 billion in 2011.
This reected a favourable rening page 16 for further details.
environment, which we were able to capture by TNK-BP virtue of our strong operations, partly offset by We began reporting TNK-BP as a separate weak petrochemicals margins and a signicantly operating segment with effect from 1 January lower supply and trading contribution than in 2012, reecting the way in which we were 2011.
2012 was also our fourth consecutive year Investing in renewable energy managing our investment.
of growth in underlying RC profit before interest Since 2005 we have invested $7.6 billion in and tax.
We also continued to make good Following the announcement of our proposed lower-carbon businesses and are on track to progress in repositioning Downstream to transaction with Rosneft on 22 October 2012, meet our commitment to invest $8 billion by improve our margin quality and the efficiency of BPs investment in TNK-BP met the criteria to 2015.
In biofuels, our three sugar cane mills the portfolio.
be classied as an asset held for sale.
in Brazil now have a total crush capacity of Consequently, BP ceased equity accounting for Since the start of 2008, our focus on safe and 7.2 million tonnes and produce fuels for use in its share of TNK-BPs earnings from the date of reliable operations in Downstream has transport and power.
At the end of 2012 we the announcement.
translated into improvements in process safety.
started up the Vivergo JV bioethanol plant in We have seen a 55% reduction in loss of Hull, UK.
We also have research, demonstration bc RC profit before interest and tax for 2012 was primary containment and a 40% reduction in our and production facilities planned or operating $3.4 billion, compared with $4.1 billion in 2011. process safety incident index over the period.
During the year we After adjusting for non-operating items, bc cancelled plans to build a commercial-scale underlying RC profit before interest and tax for Renery operations were strong this year, with cellulosic ethanol plant in Florida and 2012 was $3.1 billion, compared with $4.1 billion Solomon rening availability of 94.8%.
See refocused our cellulosic strategy on research, in 2011.
The most significant factor affecting rening availability on page 74.
Utilization rates development and technology licensing.
In performance in 2012 compared with 2011 was were at 88% despite a relatively high level of wind we have interests in 16 wind farms in the absence of more than two months income turnaround activity in 2012. the US, which together provide BP with a net following the cessation of equity accounting.
a Our lubricants business continued to deliver generating capacity of 1,558MW.
b See footnote b on page 34. robust performance in 2012, despite weak c Under equity accounting, BPs share of TNK-BPs earnings demand.
after interest and tax has been included in the BP group Alternative Energy income statement within profit before interest and tax.
For more on our activities see Other In petrochemicals, a combination of increased businesses and corporate page 82. supply and lower demand growth in the market Outlook narrowed margins for our business in 2012, The companys divestment programme is a Excludes 32MW of capacity in the Netherlands, which is although we were able to maintain production fundamentally reshaping and repositioning our managed by our Downstream segment.
volumes at around the same levels as 2011. upstream and downstream portfolios.
In the During the year we continued to make good Upstream segment, we now have a portfolio TNK-BP progress in repositioning the Downstream that we believe plays to our distinctive strengths For more on the segments financial business.
In August 2012 we announced an and capabilities in exploration, deep water, giant performance see pages 80-81. agreement to sell our Carson renery, in elds and gas value chains.
In the Downstream California, and related logistics and marketing segment, we expect that the measures we are assets in the region to Tesoro Corporation for an taking to improve efficiency and margin quality estimated $2.5 billion.
In October 2012 we will be largely complete by the end of 2013. announced an agreement to sell our Texas City Looking ahead, we continue to expect that we renery and all associated assets in the can deliver around 50% growth in operating south-east US to Marathon Petroleum d cash ow by 2014 compared with 2011.
This sale was completed on intend to use the proceeds of improved cash 1 February 2013 for proceeds of up to ow in a number of ways, including increased $2.4 billion see page 72. investment in upstream development.
This will Meanwhile, we made significant progress focus on four high-margin areas: Angola, with the upgrade of our Whiting renery.
On Azerbaijan, the Gulf of Mexico and the PSVM is one of the largest subsea developments completion, this modernization project is North Sea.
in the world and was one of BPs key project expected to allow us to capture additional start-ups for 2012.
It is the second BP-operated More development, more exploration margin through the processing of a greater development in Angola after Block 18s Greater The level of planned activity is reected in the proportion of heavy crudes.
During the year the Plutonio below.
number of rigs we have at work.
Across our new crude oil unit, coker, upgraded sulphur portfolio, we had 53 rigs in operation at the end recovery complex and gasoil hydrotreater all of 2012 20 onshore and 33 offshore, including advanced towards their targeted start-up dates 11 in the deep water.
We expect to have around in 2013 and the whole project remains on 60 rigs in operation in 2014. schedule to start up in the second half of 2013.
We intend to increase investment in exploration.
We also made good progress towards our aim Our drilling programme is expected to test 15 of divesting the LPG bulk and bottled business, new plays between 2012 and 2015. completing the exit from three of the nine d See footnote c on page 21. countries we originally identied and Business review: Group overview 27 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Our key performance indicators We track our performance against key financial and non-financial indicators.
Our board assesses the groups a Replacement cost profit loss Operating cash ow Gearing net debt ratio performance according to a wide a per ordinary share cents $ billion % range of measures and indicators.
The 13 key performance indicators 160 50 25 136.20 on these pages help us measure 21.4 21.2 126.41 20.4 20.5 38.1 performance against our strategic 18.7 120 20 40 priorities safety, trust and value 74.49 27.7 and our business plans.
We keep 63.02 80 30 15 22.2 these metrics under periodic review 20.4 40 20 10 and test their relevance to our 13.6 26.17 strategy regularly.
We believe 10 5 non-financial measures such as safety and an engaged and diverse 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 workforce have a useful role to play as leading indicators of future Replacement cost profit loss reects the Operating cash ow is net cash ow Gearing enables investors to see how replacement cost of supplies.
It is arrived provided by operating activities, from significant net debt is relative to equity performance.
at by excluding from profit inventory the group cash ow statement.
Net debt is equal to Changes to KPIs holding gains and losses and their Operating activities are the principal gross finance debt, plus associated We have changed our employee associated tax effect.
Replacement cost revenue-generating activities of the group derivatives, less cash and cash equivalents.
profit for the group is a profitability and other activities that are not investing Net debt and net debt ratio are non-GAAP engagement key performance measure used by management.
It is a or nancing activities.
See Financial statements indicator from a satisfaction measure non-GAAP measure.
See page 34 for Note 35 on page 234 for the nearest to one that measures engagement 2012 performance Lower operating the equivalent measure on an IFRS basis.
equivalent measure on an IFRS basis and with our strategic priorities of safety, cash ow in 2012 reected the cash ow for further information.
trust and long-term value, as we 2012 performance Our results were impact of lower profits, which was partly believe this measure is more closely impacted by the cost of the legal settlemitigated by a lower cash outow relating 2012 performance We ended the year ment agreed with the US government to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
with gearing within our desired 10-20% aligned with our longer-term following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, as range and we will continue to target this objectives.
Details of our employee well as by lower results in our operating range while uncertainties remain.
engagement are on page 56. segments.
Remuneration To help ensure that the focus of our board and management is aligned with the interests of our shareholders, certain of these measures are b Reported recordable Loss of primary Oil spills reected in the annual bonus element b a injury frequency containment of executive remuneration.
Employees C ontractors Overall annual bonuses are 1.25 500 875 based on performance relative to 658 measures and targets linked to the 400 1.00 700 335 537 annual group plan.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Remuneration For details of our policy Reported recordable injury frequency Loss of primary containment is the We report the number of spills of see pages 127-145.
RIF measures the number of reported number of unplanned or uncontrolled hydrocarbons greater than or equal to work-related incidents that result in a releases of material, excluding one barrel 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
fatality or injury apart from minor first aid non-hazardous releases, such as water We include spills that were contained, as cases per 200,000 hours worked.
from a tank, vessel, pipe, railcar or other well as those that reached land or water.
equipment used for containment or 2012 performance We continue to take 2012 performance Our workforce transfer.
measures to strengthen mandatory RIF, which includes employees and safety-related standards and processes, 2012 performance There was a 19% contractors combined, was 0.35, Not all financial KPIs are recognized including operational risk and integrity reduction in loss of primary containment compared with 0.36 in 2011 and 0.61 in GAAP measures, but are provided for management.
compared to 2011, which continues a year 2010.
The 2010 group RIF was affected investors because they are closely on year improvement.
Tracking losses of by the Gulf Coast response efforts and we integrity is a way of measuring safety tracked by management to evaluate continue to focus on improving personal performance and helping drive BPs operating performance and to safety.
make financial, strategic and operating decisions.
28 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 0.35 0.50 0.23 0.43 0.25 0.84 0.31 0.41 0.26 0.43 Business review: Group overview Total shareholder return % Reserves replacement ratio % Production mboe d Rening availability % ADS basis Ordinary share basis 60 150 4,250 100 129 121 3,998 95.0 94.8 94.8 93.6 40 120 106 4,000 95 103 3,838 3,822 88.8 20 90 77 3,750 90 3,454 0 60 3,500 85 3,331 -20 30 3,250 80 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total shareholder return TSR represents Proved reserves replacement ratio also We report crude oil, natural gas liquids Rening availability represents Solomon the change in value of a BP shareholding known as the production replacement ratio NGLs and natural gas produced from Associates operational availability, which over a calendar year, assuming that is the extent to which production is subsidiaries and equity-accounted is dened as the percentage of the year dividends are re-invested to purchase replaced by proved reserves additions.
These are converted to barrels that a unit is available for processing after additional shares at the closing price The ratio is expressed in oil-equivalent of oil equivalent boe at 1 barrel of subtracting the annualized time lost due to applicable on the ex-dividend date.
terms and includes changes resulting from NGL 1boe and 5,800 standard turnaround activity and all planned revisions to previous estimates, improved cubic feet of natural gas 1boe.
mechanical, process and regulatory 2012 performance In 2012 the growth recovery and extensions, and discoveries.
in TSR resulted from increases in the 2012 performance BPs total reported The measure reects both subsidiaries and 2012 performance Rening availability dividend, with the improvement for production in 2012, including both our equity-accounted entities, but excludes remained at a high level of 94.8%, ordinary shares diminished by exchange Upstream and TNK-BP segments, was acquisitions and disposals.
reecting strong operations around our rate effects.
3.6% lower than in 2011, mainly due to the global rening portfolio.
2012 performance Our reserves effect of transactions completed in replacement ratio was impacted by a lower Upstream as part of our $38-billion than usual number of final investment divestment programme.
decisions related to major projects, lower than expected reservoir performance, and the curtailing or replanning of certain development activities due to lower natural gas prices and higher costs.
We report greenhouse gas GHG We track how engaged our employees Each year we record the percentage of b This represents reported incidents occurring emissions on a COequivalent basis, are with our strategic priorities of women and individuals from countries 2 within BPs operational HSSE reporting boundary.
This represents strengthening safety, earning back trust other than the UK and US among BPs 2 That boundary includes BPs own operated all consolidated entities and BPs share of and building long-term value.
facilities and certain other locations or situations.
is derived from 12 questions about Relates to BP employees.
2012 performance BP has increased the In 2010 we did not report on GHG employee perceptions of BP as a percentage of female leaders in 2012 and emissions associated with the Deepwater company and how it is managed in terms remains focused on building a more Horizon incident or response see page 52. of leadership and standards.
sustainable pipeline of diverse talent for 2012 performance The 2.0Mte decrease in 2012 performance Aggregate results the future.
direct GHG emissions in 2012 is primarily for these questions showed a 4% explained by operational changes due to improvement on 2011 to 71%.
temporary reductions in activity in some of our businesses and by the sale of upstream assets as part of our divestment programme.
Business review: Group overview 29 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 34.6 15.1 33.0 27.6 24.1 21.4 2.5 3.0 4.5 2.6 14 19 14 21 14 19 15 19 17 22 Our management of risk Risk management Our system of risk management identies and provides the response to risks For information on BPs risk management of group signicance through the establishment of standardized system see Risk in BP on page 117. requirements and controls.
Risk factors For the risk factors that could have an adverse effect on our business see The following is a summary of how we seek to government.
We are also focused on pages 38-44. manage the risks we have identied as having a completing our agreement to sell our interest in high priority in 2013.
There can be no guarantee TNK-BP to, and purchase interests in, Rosneft.
that our risk management activities will mitigate Many of our major projects and operations are or prevent these, or other, risks from occurring.
conducted through joint ventures or associates Strategic and commercial risk and through contracting and sub-contracting arrangements where BP may not have full We aim to manage risks associated with the general macroeconomic outlook, and changes in operational control.
We seek to manage the risks arising from such joint venture and prices and markets, by responding to early warnings from our economics and treasury contractor relationships actively, and this may include monitoring compliance with applicable teams and customer-facing businesses.
To manage our liquidity, financial capacity and standards.
financial exposure risks, we apply our financial In 2011 we set out a 10-point plan to address framework and we conduct liquidity stress our near-term strategic priorities.
Among other testing and interventions based on scenario things, the plan aims to target investments and planning see Liquidity and capital resources on disposals efficiently, renew and reposition our pages 90-93. portfolio and deliver our major projects to plan.
The diverse locations of our operations around As part of managing the risks to delivery of the the world expose us to a wide range of political 10-point plan we conduct regular planning and developments and consequent changes to the  activity, including the economic and operating environment.
For planning of disposals: we focus on the example, our investments in Russia could be successful delivery of major projects: and we adversely affected by heightened political and pursue the development of continued other social and environment risks.
As such, we technological advances and innovation.
try to actively manage our relationships in Russia, including with the Russian federal A new mission control in Houston Developed as part of our ongoing commitment to enhance risk management, BPs Houston monitoring centre is a state-of-the-art onshore facility that helps reduce risk by monitoring data from our rig operations in the Gulf of Mexico and providing an additional level of assurance to offshore teams.
The facility is similar to the control centre used for space shuttle launches, which is no coincidence a former senior NASA manager helped to develop its functionality.
Armed with real-time information feeds, live video and constant communication with colleagues on the rigs, teams at the facility monitor data from drilling operations 24 hours a day.
Onshore experts are primed to escalate issues up the chain of command offshore if they spot potential incidents.
We also monitor the monitors, carrying out a programme of inspections and emergency drills to test the resilience of this collaborative early warning system.
30 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: Group overview We seek to manage our reputation through We have also appointed an independent adviser actively managing our relationships with key to provide oversight and assurance regarding stakeholders and through clear, consistent and the companys implementation of the Bly coherent communications.
We seek to engage Reports recommendation and to report on with local communities in order to foster observed process safety culture.
Crisis and continuity management plans, There have been many important developments including in respect of oil spill preparedness and in 2012 related to the Deepwater Horizon response, have been developed to help us to accident, oil spill, and response including the respond effectively to emergencies to minimize agreement reached with the US government to impacts and to avoid potentially severe resolve all federal criminal claims and with the disruption in our business and operations.
See SEC regarding its securities claims.
There Safety on pages 46-50 for information on the remains, however, continuing uncertainty recommendations of BPs internal investigation regarding the final extent and timing of civil into the Deepwater Horizon oil spill and the costs and liabilities relating to the incident with actions we are pursuing to address them.
the trial to address many of these issues, which Security threats require continuous monitoring started on 25 February 2013.
Further, BP is in and control as hostile actions against our staff, ongoing discussions with the EPA to lift the our facilities as in the In Amenas joint venture in temporary suspension and mandatory Algeria and our digital infrastructure cyber debarment.
As such, the long-term impact of security could cause harm to people and could the incident on our reputation remains disrupt our operations.
We have procedures that uncertain.
are intended to monitor for threats and In addressing these risks we have been working vulnerabilities and policies to manage our to review and adapt where necessary our physical and digital security.
We also maintain current controls and procedures to assure disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity compliance with the requirements contained management plans.
Compliance and control risk In addition we have been preparing for trial Ethical misconduct or breaches of applicable while remaining open to settlement of the laws or regulations could be damaging to our remaining civil claims on reasonable terms.
We reputation, results of operations and shareholder Operators descending coker structure, Castellon are committed to rebuilding trust with all our value and could affect our licence to operate.
stakeholders and continue to co-operate with all Central to managing these risks is our code of investigators, monitors and regulators.
Further, conduct and our values and behaviours see we are clear that we always seek to comply page 56, the requirements of which apply to all with local regulations and, in some cases, our employees, supported by our various group required practices will exceed regulations if our requirements covering issues such as antiassessment of the operating risk indicates it bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, would be beneficial to do so.
competition anti-trust law compliance and trade sanctions.
We seek to monitor for new Safety and operational risk regulations and legislation and plan our The nature of the groups operations exposes us response to them.
We also operate a range of to a wide range of significant health, safety and compliance training and monitoring programmes environmental risks such as incidents for our employees, including OpenTalk, our associated with the drilling of wells, operation of condential helpline for employees.
facilities, transportation of hydrocarbons and product quality.
In addressing these risks we In the normal course of business, we are seek to apply our operating management subject to risks around our treasury and trading system OMS, including group and engineering activities, which could arise from shortcomings technical practices, as applicable.
or failures in our systems, risk management methodology, internal control processes or We seek to conduct maintenance and employees.
In addressing these risks, we have equipment testing and to apply product quality adopted specic operating standards and control and testing procedures.
We also provide control processes, including guidelines in our staff with training and competency relation to trading, and seek to monitor development.
To better manage the risks compliance through dedicated compliance inherent in drilling wells where we are the organizations.
We also seek to maintain a operator, we conduct activity through a global positive and collaborative relationship with wells organization that is accountable for regulators and the industry at large.
systems and processes for designing, constructing and managing wells.
Business review: Group overview 31 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Cautionary statement This document contains certain forecasts, projections and forward looking statements planned and announced divestments, expectations regarding the announced disposal that is, statements related to future, not past events with respect to the financial of TNK-BP to Rosneft and acquisition of an 18.5% shareholding in Rosneft, BPs condition, results of operations and businesses of BP and certain of the plans and intentions to use part of the cash proceeds from the planned disposal of TNK-BP to objectives of BP with respect to these items.
These statements may generally, but not offset any dilution to BPs earnings per share, expectations about BPs future always, be identied by the use of words such as will, expects, is expected to, investments and operations in the North Sea, expectations regarding reported aims, should, may, objective, is likely to, intends, believes, anticipates, plans, production and underlying production in Upstream, expectations regarding Vivergo, the we see or similar expressions.
In particular, among other statements, i certain timing of the completion of the Angola LNG plant, the timing for the completion of the statements in the Chairmans letter pages 8-9, the Group chief executives letter Mad Dog spar, and the level of future turnaround activity: ii the statements in the pages 10-11, the Business review pages 3-99 and Additional disclosures pages Business review pages 3-99, Corporate governance pages 101-126, the Directors 161-175, including but not limited to statements under the headings Energy outlook, remuneration report pages 127-145, and Shareholder information pages 153-159 Our strategy, Outlook and Looking Ahead, with regard to expectations regarding with regard to the boards goals and plans stemming from the boards annual BPs agreement with and prospective shareholding in Rosneft, including BPs evaluation, expectations regarding the timing of events with investors, plans to expectations regarding its representations on the Rosneft board, the composition of continue the ongoing process of embedding OMS and to ensure joint venture partners the board of directors, expectations regarding our strategy and strategic priorities follow principles similar to those of the OMS, plans and timing for the implementation including our Upstream and Downstream strategies and our longer term objectives, of the Bly report recommendations, plans regarding investments in research, the plans to deliver shareholder value, plans to continue to simplify the organization and timing of projects, programs and initiatives, intentions to continue monitoring process portfolio, plans to focus on efficient execution and use of capital, plans to prioritize safety at TNK-BP, intentions to implement group-wide practices for oil spill value rather than seeking to grow production volume for its own sake, prospects for preparedness and response and crisis management, plans to spend $700 million on the settlement of outstanding claims related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, plans to certain renery-related safety measures, plans to implement enhanced and continue to meet commitments in the Gulf Coast region, plans to implement the standardized technical practices across the rening business, the timing of, cost of, recommendations of the Bly Report, plans to appoint two independent monitors and source of payment and provision for future remediation and restoration programmes an independent auditor, BPs intention to prioritize operating cash ow and and environmental operating and capital expenditures, plans to halve US rening replacement cost operating profit over barrels of production, plans to work to focus and capacity, plans and expectations with regard to the remuneration, pensions and other improve the business, plans to enhance safety and earn back trust, anticipated benets of executive directors, expectations regarding the impact of various increases in regulation and taxation of the energy industry and energy users, regulations upon BPs business and expectations regarding greater regulation and projections regarding the ability of renewable energy sources to meet total energy increased operating costs in the Gulf of Mexico in the future: iii the statements in the demand, expectations regarding investments in proprietary technology, expectations Business review pages 90-93 with regard to future dividend and optional scrip regarding LoSal technology, plans to sell assets and entities, expectations regarding the dividend payments, future capital expenditures and capital expenditure commitments, future level of capital expenditures through the end of the decade, expectations taxation, intentions to maintain a significant liquidity buffer, future working capital and regarding the amount of divestments per year, the expected level of gearing, cash ows, gearing and the net debt ratio, BPs intention to maintain a strong cash expectations regarding the 10-point plan, expectations regarding future dividend position, expectations regarding taxes due upon repatriation of cash into the UK, payments and BPs plans to continue to pursue a progressive dividend policy, BPs expectations regarding total capital expenditure, expected payments under contractual outlook on global energy trends to 2030 and beyond, BPs outlook on its ability to meet and commercial commitments and purchase obligations, and including under Liquidity the growing demand for energy, the intention to make $2-3 billion in disposals per and capital resources Trend information, with regard to production in Upstream, the annum on an ongoing basis, BPs plans to grow operating cash ow and margins by expected financial impact of renery turnarounds, expectations regarding 2014 and the expected quantum of growth, plans for the use of expected improved petrochemicals margins and the average quarterly charge for Other businesses and cash ow, plans to grow free cash ow in Downstream, expectations regarding the corporate, estimated levels of capital expenditure in 2013 and to the end of the decade, level and types of investments and divestments, expectations regarding the Shah estimated amount of divestments, intentions regarding net debt ratio and the expected Deniz consortium, BPs plans for involvement in growth markets, the anticipated timing level of depreciation, depletion and amortization, and the expected level of underlying for completion of the disposition of certain BP assets and entities and estimates of the effective tax rate: and iv certain statements in Additional disclosures pages 161-175 final proceeds therefrom, future production levels including expectations for an regarding the anticipated timing of trial proceedings, court decisions and potential increase in high-margin production, the timing and composition of future projects investigations and civil or criminal actions by US state and or local governments: are all including expected Final Investment Decisions, start-up, construction, commissioning, forward looking in nature.
completion, timing of production, level of production and margins, expectations for By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they drilling and rig activity in the Gulf of Mexico, the timing of measures taken to improve relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future and efficiency and margin quality, expectations for the number of rigs in operation, the are outside the control of BP.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed timing of the delivery of new tankers and rigs, expectations regarding turnover time in such statements, depending on a variety of factors, including the specic factors and the volume of proved undeveloped reserves held for more than five years, the identied in the discussions accompanying such forward-looking statements: the estimated cost of the settlements with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee in MDL receipt of relevant third party and or government approvals: the timing of bringing new 2179, the expected amount, source and timing of payments under any settlements elds onstream: the timing of certain disposals: future levels of industry product related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, expectations with regard to the terms of any supply, demand and pricing, including supply growth in North America: OPEC quota settlements and BPs compliance therewith, the anticipated effect of accounting restrictions: PSA effects: operational problems: general economic conditions: political changes on BPs earnings and cash ow, the timing of the positioning of well cap stability and economic growth in relevant areas of the world: changes in laws and systems and dispersant application equipment packages, expectations regarding governmental regulations: regulatory or legal actions including the types of employee training, expectations for an increase in the carbon intensity of operations, enforcement action pursued and the nature of remedies sought: the actions of expectations regarding environmental research, plans regarding the launch of BPs prosecutors, regulatory authorities and courts: the actions of the Claims Administrator human rights policy, expectations regarding regulation and taxation of the energy appointed under the Economic and Property Damages Settlement: the actions of all industry and energy users, BPs expectations with regard to employee diversity and parties to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill-related litigation at various phases of the litigation: inclusion, the timing for completion of and prospects for the High-Performance exchange rate uctuations: development and use of new technology: the success or Computing centre in Houston, prospects for debarment of BP entities and the otherwise of partnering: the actions of competitors: the actions of contractors: natural expected duration and consequences of any such debarment, the timing of the disasters and adverse weather conditions: changes in public expectations and other commissioning of the LNG train at Tangguh, plans to retain the petrochemicals changes to business conditions: wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage: and other manufacturing plants at Texas City, expectations regarding future levels of capital factors discussed elsewhere in this report including under Risk factors pages 38-44. investment, plans regarding Project 20K, the expected impact of the expiry of the In addition to factors set forth elsewhere in this report, those set out above are Abu Dhabi onshore concession, plans regarding environmental restoration of the Gulf important factors, although not exhaustive, that may cause actual results and Coast, future global renery capacity and utilization, plans and timing for the developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these completion of the upgrade to and start-up of the Whiting renery, plans regarding forward-looking statements.
upgrades to the Cherry Point renery, expectations regarding oil price movements in 2013, expectations regarding the gas market in 2013 and the expected drivers thereof, Statements regarding competitive position prospects for the persistence in a large gap between US and European gas prices in Statements referring to BPs competitive position are based on the companys belief 2013, BPs plans to license back the ARCO brand, prospects for Upstreams and, in some cases, rely on a range of sources, including investment analysts reports, contribution to BPs plans to increase operating cash ow by around 50% by 2014, independent market studies and BPs internal assessments of market share based on expectations regarding the unit operating cash margins of new upstream projects, BPs publicly available information about the financial results and performance of market strategies with regard to optimizing value across the business, plans regarding BPs participants.
PTA project, the timing of a review of BPs assets and estimation processes, plans regarding the implementation of enhancements to BPs risk management system, expectations regarding rening margins, expectations regarding the market for lubricants and petrochemicals, expectations regarding Downstream capital expenditures, expectations regarding the reduction of net debt and the net debt ratio, the expected future level of depreciation, depletion and amortization, the completion of 32 Business review: Group overview BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Business review 34 Financial review BP in more 38 Risk factors depth 46 Safety Detailed reporting on activity across the group during a 51 Environmental and social responsibility busy year.
55 Employees 57 Technology 59 Gulf of Mexico oil spill 63 Upstream 72 Downstream 80 TNK-BP 82 Other businesses and corporate 84 Oil and gas disclosures for the group 90 Liquidity and capital resources 94 Regulation of the groups business 98 Certain denitions B Bu usin sine es ss rev s reviiew ew: B : BP P in m in mo ore d re fide ept pth h 33 33 BP BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Financial review a Selected financial information $ million 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Income statement data Sales and other operating revenues 375,580 375,517 297,107 239,272 361,143 b Underlying replacement cost profit loss before interest and tax By business Upstream 19,419 25,225 25,073 19,668 37,318 Downstream 6,447 6,013 4,883 3,607 3,318 c TNK-BP 3,127 1,948 2,262 4,134 2,617 Other businesses and corporate 1,997 1,656 1,316 1,833 590 Consolidation adjustment unrealized profit in inventory 576 113 447 717 466 26,420 33,603 31,704 22,673 42,774 Net favourable unfavourable impact of non-operating items and fair value b accounting effects By business Upstream 3,055 1,141 3,196 3,184 1,272 Downstream 3,601 858 539 672 2,864 TNK-BP 246 Other businesses and corporate 798 822 200 489 633 d Gulf of Mexico oil spill response 4,995 3,800 40,858 6,093 3,580 37,190 169 1,047 b Replacement cost profit loss before interest and tax By business Upstream 22,474 26,366 28,269 22,852 36,046 Downstream 2,846 743 4,176 5,474 5,555 c TNK-BP 3,373 4,134 2,617 1,948 2,262 Other businesses and corporate 2,795 2,478 1,516 2,322 1,223 d Gulf of Mexico oil spill response 4,995 3,800 40,858 Consolidation adjustment unrealized profit in inventory 576 113 447 717 466 b Replacement cost profit loss before interest and taxation 20,327 37,183 5,486 22,504 41,727 e Inventory holding gains losses 594 2,634 1,784 3,922 6,488 profit loss before interest and taxation 19,733 39,817 3,702 26,426 35,239 Finance costs and net finance expense income relating to pensions and other post-retirement benets 924 983 1,123 1,302 956 Taxation 6,993 12,737 1,501 8,365 12,617 profit loss for the year 11,816 26,097 3,324 16,759 21,666 profit loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders 11,582 25,700 3,719 16,578 21,157 e Inventory holding gains losses, net of tax 411 1,800 1,195 2,623 4,436 b Replacement cost profit loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders 11,993 23,900 4,914 13,955 25,593 b Non-operating items and fair value accounting effects, net of tax 5,645 2,242 25,436 622 650 Underlying replacement cost profit loss for the year attributable to b BP shareholders 17,638 21,658 20,522 14,577 26,243 a This information, insofar as it relates to 2012, has been extracted or derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the BP group presented on pages 177-262.
Note 1 to the financial statements includes details on the basis of preparation of these financial statements.
The selected information should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and related notes elsewhere herein.
b Replacement cost RC profit or loss reects the replacement cost of supplies and is arrived at by excluding inventory holding gains and losses from profit or loss.
RC profit or loss is the measure of profit or loss for each operating segment that is required to be disclosed under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
RC profit or loss for the group is not a recognized GAAP measure.
Underlying RC profit or loss is RC profit or loss after adjusting for non-operating items and fair value accounting effects.
Underlying RC profit or loss and fair value accounting effects are not recognized GAAP measures.
For further information on RC profit or loss, underlying RC profit or loss, non-operating items and fair value accounting effects, see page 37 and Certain denitions on pages 98-99. c BP ceased equity accounting for its share of TNK-BP earnings from 22 October 2012.
See TNK-BP on pages 80-81 for further information.
d Under IFRS these costs are presented as a reconciling item between the sum of the results of the reportable segments and the group results.
e Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the cost of sales calculated using the average cost to BP of supplies acquired during the year and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out FIFO method, after adjusting for any changes in provisions where the net realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost.
BPs management believes it is helpful to disclose this information.
An analysis of inventory holding gains and losses by business is shown in Financial statements Note 6 on page 203 and further information on inventory holding gains and losses is provided on page 98.
34 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Selected financial information continued $ million except per share amounts 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Per ordinary share cents profit loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders Basic 60.86 135.93 19.81 88.49 112.59 Diluted 60.45 134.29 19.81 87.54 111.56 Replacement cost profit loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders 63.02 126.41 26.17 74.49 136.20 Underlying replacement cost profit for the year attributable to BP shareholders 92.68 114.55 109.23 77.81 139.66 Dividends paid per share cents 33.00 28.00 14.00 56.00 55.05 Dividends paid per share pence 20.852 17.404 8.679 36.417 29.387 a Capital expenditure and acquisitions 24,342 31,518 23,016 20,309 30,700 Acquisitions and asset exchanges 200 11,283 3,406 308 2,514 b Organic capital expenditure 23,088 19,139 18,218 20,001 21,697 Balance sheet data at 31 December Total assets 300,193 293,068 272,262 235,968 228,238 Net assets 119,620 112,482 95,891 102,113 92,109 Share capital 5,261 5,224 5,183 5,179 5,176 BP shareholders equity 118,414 111,465 94,987 101,613 91,303 Finance debt due after more than one year 38,767 35,169 30,710 25,518 17,464 c Net debt to net debt plus equity 18.7% 20.5% 21.2% 20.4% 21.4% d Ordinary share data Shares million Average number outstanding of 25 cent ordinary shares undiluted 19,028 18,905 18,786 18,732 18,790 Average number outstanding of 25 cent ordinary shares diluted 19,158 19,136 18,998 18,936 18,963 a Includes asset exchanges.
All capital expenditure and acquisitions during the past five years have been nanced from cash ow from operations, disposal proceeds and external nancing.
b Organic capital expenditure excludes acquisitions and asset exchanges, and: in 2012, $1,054 million associated with deepening our US natural gas and North Sea asset bases: in 2011, $1,096 million associated with deepening our US natural gas asset bases: in 2010, $900 million relating to the formation of a partnership with Value Creation Inc. to develop the Terre fide Grace oil sands acreage and $492 million for the purchase of additional interests in the Valhall and Hod elds in the North Sea: and, in 2008, $3,667 million in respect of our purchase of all Chesapeake Energy Corporations interest in the Arkoma Basin Woodford Shale assets and the purchase of a 25% interest in Chesapeakes Fayetteville Shale assets and $2,822 million relating to the formation of an integrated North American oil sands business with Husky Energy Inc. c Net debt and the ratio of net debt to net debt plus equity are not recognized GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful information to investors.
Further information on net debt is given in Financial statements Note 35 on page 234. d The number of ordinary shares shown has been used to calculate per share amounts.
reclassied as an asset held for sale, as required under IFRS, weak profit or loss for the year petrochemicals margins and a significant reduction in the supply and profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended 31 December trading contribution.
These factors were partially offset by an improved 2012 was $11,582 million.
After adjusting for $411 million in respect of rening environment, which we were able to capture as a result of strong inventory holding losses and their associated tax effect, replacement cost renery operations.
RC profit attributable to BP shareholders in 2012 was $11,993 million.
After further adjusting for a net charge of $5,300 million for non-operating For the year ended 31 December 2010, there was a loss attributable to BP items and adverse fair value accounting effects relative to managements shareholders of $3,719 million, which included inventory holding gains, measure of performance of $345 million, both net of tax, underlying RC net of tax, of $1,195 million leading to a replacement cost loss attributable profit attributable to BP shareholders in 2012 was $17,638 million.
RC to BP shareholders of $4,914 million.
After adjusting for a net charge for profit or loss for the group, underlying RC profit and fair value accounting non-operating items of $25,449 million and net favourable fair value effects are non-GAAP measures, see footnote b on page 34 for further accounting effects of $13 million, both net of tax, underlying profit information.
attributable to BP shareholders in 2010 was $20,522 million.
Nonoperating items in 2010 included a pre-tax charge relating to the Gulf of Non-operating items in 2012, on a pre-tax basis, mainly related to further Mexico oil spill of $40.9 billion.
charges associated with the Gulf of Mexico oil spill primarily the cost of the agreement with the US government to settle all federal criminal Compared with 2010, in 2011 there were higher realizations, higher charges and impairment charges, partially offset by gains on disposals.
earnings from equity-accounted entities, a higher rening margin More information on non-operating items, and fair value accounting environment and a stronger supply and trading contribution, partly offset effects, can be found on page 37.
See Gulf of Mexico oil spill on pages by lower production volumes, rig standby costs in the Gulf of Mexico, 59-62 and Financial statements Note 2 on page 194 for further higher costs related to turnarounds, higher exploration write-offs, and information on the impact of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill on BPs financial negative impacts of increased relative sweet crude prices in Europe and results.
Australia, primarily caused by the loss of Libya production and the weather-related power outages in the US.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, profit attributable to BP shareholders was $25,700 million, replacement cost profit attributable to See Upstream on page 63, Downstream on page 72, TNK-BP on page 80 BP shareholders in 2011 was $23,900 million and underlying RC profit and Other businesses and corporate on page 82 for further information on attributable to BP shareholders in 2011 was $21,658 million.
holding gains and their associated tax effect were $1,800 million in 2011.
There was a net post-tax credit for non-operating items of $2,195 million, which included a $3.7 billion pre-tax credit relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, and fair value accounting effects had a favourable impact, net of tax, of $47 million.
Compared with 2011, underlying replacement cost profit in 2012 was impacted by higher upstream costs driven primarily by sector ination, lower production and realizations, the absence of equity-accounted earnings from TNK-BP as of 22 October 2012 when our investment was Business review: BP in more depth 35 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 announced in March 2010, and our Alternative Energy business acquired Finance costs and net finance expense relating to the Brazilian sugar and ethanol producer Companhia Nacional fide Acar e pensions and other post-retirement benets lcool CNAA for $0.7 billion.
See Financial statements Note 3 on Finance costs comprise interest payable less amounts capitalized, and page 198 for further details of business combinations.
interest accretion on provisions and long-term other payables.
Finance Total disposal proceeds received during 2011, after the repayment of the costs in 2012 were $1,125 million compared with $1,246 million in 2011 disposal deposit relating to Pan American Energy LLC PAE see below, and $1,170 million in 2010. were $2.7 billion.
Net finance income relating to pensions and other post-retirement In Upstream, disposal proceeds included $0.6 billion from the sale of our benets in 2012 was $201 million compared with $263 million in 2011 and upstream assets in Pakistan to United Energy Pakistan Limited, a $47 million in 2010.
In 2012, compared with 2011, the reduced net income subsidiary of United Energy Group UEG : $0.5 billion from the sale of half largely reected lower expected returns on pension assets following of the 3.29% interest in the  ACG development in reductions in the yield assumptions, mainly for bonds, being applied in the Caspian Sea, which we had acquired from Devon Energy in 2010, to 2012 compared to 2011.
Azerbaijan ACG Limited: and $0.5 billion from the sale of our interests in In 2013, when we adopt the revised version of IAS 19 Employee the Wytch Farm, Wareham, Beacon and Kimmeridge elds to Perenco Benets, we will be required to apply the same expected rate of return UK Ltd.
In addition, further payments of $1.1 billion were received on on plan assets as we use to discount our pension liabilities.
We expect completion of the sales of our upstream and certain midstream interests this accounting change to adversely impact our annual earnings by in Venezuela and Vietnam and our oil and gas exploration, production and approximately $1 billion on a pre-tax basis, with no impact on cash ow.
transportation business in Colombia, for which we had received $2.3 billion in 2010 as deposits.
In November 2011, BP received from Taxation Bridas Corporation Bridas a notice of termination of the agreement for The charge for corporate taxes in 2012 was $6,993 million, compared their purchase of BPs 60% interest in PAE.
As a result, the deposit of with a charge of $12,737 million in 2011 and a credit of $1,501 million in $3.5 billion relating to the sale of PAE, which had been received by BP in 2010.
The effective tax rate was 37% in 2012, 33% in 2011 and 31% in 2010, was repaid to Bridas.
The group earns income in many countries and, on average, pays In Downstream we made disposals totalling $0.7 billion, which included taxes at rates higher than the UK statutory rate of 24%.
The increase in completion of the divestment of non-strategic pipelines and terminals in the effective tax rate in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily reects the the US, announced in 2009, for $0.3 billion and the disposal of our fuels impact of the provision for the settlement with the US government, marketing businesses in several African countries for $0.2 billion.
which is not tax deductible.
The increase in the effective tax rate in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily reected a higher level of income earned Within Other businesses and corporate, we completed the sale of BPs in jurisdictions with a higher tax rate.
wholly-owned subsidiary, ARCO Aluminum Inc. to a consortium of Japanese companies for $0.7 billion.
Acquisitions and disposals In 2010, BP acquired a major portfolio of deepwater exploration acreage In 2012 there were no significant acquisitions.
and prospects in the US Gulf of Mexico and an additional interest in the Total disposal proceeds received during 2012 were $11.4 billion.
BP-operated ACG developments in the Caspian Sea, Azerbaijan, for In Upstream, total disposal proceeds of $10.7 billion included $5.55 billion $2.9 billion, as part of a $7-billion transaction with Devon Energy.
Total for the disposal of BPs interests in the Marlin hub, Horn Mountain, disposal proceeds during 2010 were $17 billion, which included $7 billion Holstein, Ram Powell and Diana Hoover elds in the Gulf of Mexico.
from the sale of US Permian Basin, Western Canadian gas assets, and Proceeds of $1.5 billion were received for the sale of the Canadian natural Western Desert exploration concessions in Egypt to Apache Corporation gas liquids NGL business to Plains Midstream Canada ULC, a wholly and an existing partner that exercised pre-emption rights, and $6.2 billion owned subsidiary of Plains All American Pipeline, L. P. and of deposits received in advance of disposal transactions expected to $1.2 billion for the Hugoton basin assets including the Jayhawk NGL complete in 2011.
Of these deposits received, $3.5 billion was for the sale processing plant and associated producing gas elds in Kansas to an of our interest in PAE to Bridas: however, this was subsequently repaid to afliate of LINN Energy, LLC.
The sale of BPs interest in the Jonah and Bridas at the end of 2011 following the termination of the sale agreement.
Pinedale upstream operations in Wyoming, also to LINN Energy, LLC The deposits received also included $1 billion for the sale of our generated disposal proceeds of $1.025 billion.
upstream and midstream interests in Venezuela and Vietnam to TNK-BP, In Downstream, disposal proceeds totalled $0.5 billion, including the sale and $1.3 billion for the sale of our oil and gas exploration, production and of our interests in puried terephthalic acid production in Malaysia.
transportation business in Colombia to a consortium of Ecopetrol and Talisman.
There were no significant disposals during 2012 in Other businesses and corporate.
In Downstream we made disposals totalling $1.8 billion in 2010, which included our French retail fuels and convenience business to Delek Prior years transactions Europe: the fuels marketing business in Botswana to Puma Energy: In 2011, BP acquired from Reliance Industries Limited Reliance a 30% certain non-strategic pipelines and terminals in the US, our interests in interest in each of 21 oil and gas production-sharing agreements operated ethylene and polyethylene production in Malaysia to Petronas: and our by Reliance in India for $7.0 billion.
We completed the purchase, for interest in a futures exchange.
$3.6 billion, of 10 exploration and production blocks in Brazil, which was the final part of a $7-billion transaction with Devon Energy that had been 36 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Non-operating items Non-GAAP information on fair value accounting effects Non-operating items are charges and credits arising in consolidated entities The impacts of fair value accounting effects, relative to managements and in TNK-BP that are included in the financial statements and that BP internal measure of performance, and a reconciliation to GAAP discloses separately because it considers such disclosures to be meaningful information is also set out below.
Further information on fair value and relevant to investors.
They are items that management considers not to accounting effects is provided on page 98. be part of underlying business operations and are disclosed in order to enable $ million investors better to understand and evaluate the groups reported financial 2012 2011 2010 performance.
An analysis of non-operating items is shown in the table below.
Upstream $ million Unrecognized gains losses 2012 2011 2010 brought forward from previous Upstream period 538 527 530 Impairment and gain loss on sale Unrecognized gains losses carried of businesses and xed assets 3,638 2,131 3,812 forward 404 538 527 Environmental and other provisions 48 27 54 Favourable unfavourable impact relative to managements Restructuring, integration and measure of performance 134 11 3 rationalization costs 137 a Fair value gain loss on embedded Downstream derivatives 347 191 309 Unrecognized gains losses a brought forward from previous Other 748 1,165 113 period 74 137 179 3,189 1,130 3,199 Unrecognized gains losses carried Downstream forward 501 74 137 Impairment and gain loss on sale Favourable unfavourable impact of businesses and xed assets 2,935 334 877 relative to managements Environmental and other provisions 172 219 98 measure of performance 427 63 42 Restructuring, integration and 561 74 39 rationalization costs 32 4 97 b Taxation credit charge 216 27 26 Fair value gain loss on embedded 345 47 13 derivatives By region Other 35 45 52 Upstream 3,174 602 630 b US 67 15 141 TNK-BP Non-US 67 4 144 Impairment and gain loss on sale of businesses and xed assets 55 134 11 3 a Downstream Environmental and other provisions 83 Restructuring, integration and US 441 19 rationalization costs Non-US 14 63 23 Fair value gain loss on embedded 427 63 42 derivatives a Fair value accounting effects arise solely in the fuels business.
Other 384 b Tax is calculated using the groups discrete quarterly effective tax rate adjusted for the Gulf of 246 Mexico oil spill, certain impairment losses and disposal gains in 2012, equity-accounted earnings from 2012 onwards and the deferred tax adjustments relating to changes to the Other businesses and corporate taxation of UK oil and gas production 2011 $683 million, 2012 $256 million.
Impairment and gain loss on sale of businesses and xed assets 282 275 5 Reconciliation of non-GAAP information $ million Environmental and other provisions 261 220 103 2012 2011 2010 Restructuring, integration and rationalization costs 15 39 81 Upstream Fair value gain loss on embedded Replacement cost profit before c derivatives 123 interest and tax adjusted for fair d value accounting effects 22,608 26,355 28,272 Other 240 715 21 Impact of fair value accounting 798 822 200 effects 134 11 3 Gulf of Mexico oil spill response 4,995 3,800 40,858 Replacement cost profit before Total before interest and taxation 5,532 3,506 37,229 interest and tax 22,474 26,366 28,269 e Finance costs 19 58 77 Downstream f Taxation credit charge 251 1,253 11,857 Replacement cost profit before Total after taxation 5,300 2,195 25,449 interest and tax adjusted for fair a value accounting effects 3,273 5,411 5,513 2012 included a charge of $370 million relating to onerous gas marketing and trading contracts and $308 million relating to exploration expense associated with our US natural gas assets Impact of fair value accounting 2011 $395 million.
2011 included a charge of $700 million associated with the termination of effects 427 63 42 the agreement to sell our 60% interest in Pan American Energy LLC to Bridas Corporation.
b Replacement cost profit before Disclosure of non-operating items for TNK-BP began in 2012.
Non-operating items for TNK-BP were reported in the group income statement within earnings from associates until 22 October interest and tax 2,846 5,474 5,555 2012 after interest and tax.
See TNK-BP on pages 80-81 for more information on nonTotal group operating items.
c profit loss before interest and tax Relates to an embedded derivative arising from a nancing arrangement.
d 2012 included charges of $244 million relating to our exit from the solar business adjusted for fair value accounting 2011 $717 million.
effects 20,294 39,743 3,741 e Finance costs relate to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
See Financial statements Note 2 on Impact of fair value accounting page 194 for further details.
f effects 561 74 39 For the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and certain impairment losses and disposal gains in 2012, tax is based on US statutory tax rates, except for non-deductible items.
For dividends received from profit loss before interest and tax 19,733 39,817 3,702 TNK-BP in December 2012, there is no tax arising.
For other items reported by consolidated subsidiaries, tax is calculated using the groups discrete quarterly effective tax rate adjusted for the items noted above, equity-accounted earnings from 2012 onwards and the deferred tax adjustments relating to changes to the taxation of UK oil and gas production 2011 $683 million Business review: BP in more depth 37 and 2012 $256 million.
Non-operating items arising within the equity-accounted earnings of TNK-BP are reported net of tax.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Prices and markets BPs financial performance is subject to the Risk factors uctuating prices of crude oil and gas, the volatile prices of rened products and the profitability of our rening and petrochemicals We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below.
The potential operations, as well as the general macroeconomic outlook.
impact of the occurrence, or reoccurrence, of any of the risks described Oil, gas and product prices and margins can be very volatile, and are below could have a material adverse effect on BPs business, financial subject to international supply and demand.
Political developments position, results of operations, competitive position, cash ows, including conict situations and the outcome of meetings of OPEC can prospects, liquidity, shareholder returns and or implementation of its particularly affect world supply and oil prices.
Previous oil price increases strategic agenda.
have resulted in increased scal take, cost ination and more onerous The risks are categorized against the following areas: strategic and terms for access to resources.
As a result, increased oil prices may not commercial: compliance and control: and safety and operational.
In addition to the adverse effect on addition, we have also set out one further risk for your attention those revenues, margins and profitability from any fall in oil and natural gas resulting from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill the Incident.
prices, a prolonged period of low prices or other indicators would lead to further reviews for impairment of the groups oil and natural gas The Gulf of Mexico oil spill has had and could continue to have a properties.
Such reviews would reect managements view of long-term material adverse impact on BP.
oil and natural gas prices and could result in a charge for impairment that While significant charges have been recognized in the income statement could have a significant effect on the groups results of operations in the since the Incident occurred in 2010, there is significant uncertainty regarding period in which it occurs.
Rapid material or sustained change in oil, gas the extent and timing of the remaining costs and liabilities relating to the and product prices can impact the validity of the assumptions on which Incident, the potential changes in applicable regulations and the operating strategic decisions are based and, as a result, the ensuing actions derived environment that may result from the Incident, the impact of the Incident on from those decisions may no longer be appropriate.
A prolonged period of our reputation and the resulting possible impact on our licence to operate low oil prices may impact our cash ow, profit and ability to maintain our including our ability to access new opportunities.
The amount of claims that long-term investment programme with a consequent effect on our growth become payable by BP, the amount of fines ultimately levied on BP including rate, and may impact shareholder returns, including dividends and share any potential determination of BPs negligence or gross negligence, the buybacks, or share price.
outcome of litigation, the terms of any further settlements including the amount and timing of any payments thereunder, and any costs arising from Rening profitability can be volatile, with both periodic over-supply and any longer-term environmental consequences of the Incident, will also impact supply tightness in various regional markets, coupled with uctuations in upon the ultimate cost for BP.
Although the provisions recognized represent demand.
Sectors of the petrochemicals industry are also subject to the current best estimates of expenditures required to settle certain present uctuations in supply and demand, with a consequent effect on prices obligations that can be reasonably estimated at the end of the reporting and profitability.
Periods of global recession could impact the demand for period, there are future expenditures for which it is not possible to measure our products, the prices at which they can be sold and affect the viability our obligations reliably and the total amounts paid by BP in relation to all of the markets in which we operate.
obligations relating to the Incident are subject to significant uncertainty.
These Governments are facing greater pressure on public nances, which may uncertainties are likely to continue for a significant period, increase the risks to increase their motivation to intervene in the scal and regulatory which the group is exposed and may cause our costs to increase.
Thus, the frameworks of the oil and gas industry, including the risk of increased Incident has had, and could continue to have, a material adverse impact on taxation, nationalization and expropriation.
the groups business, competitive position, financial performance, cash ows, prospects, liquidity, shareholder returns and or implementation of its The global financial and economic situation may have a negative impact strategic agenda, particularly in the US.
The risks associated with the Incident on third parties with whom we do, or may do, business.
In particular, could also heighten the impact of the other risks to which the group is ongoing instability in or a collapse of the eurozone could trigger a new exposed as further described below.
wave of financial crises and push the world back into recession, leading to lower demand and lower oil and gas prices.
Strategic and commercial risks Climate change and carbon pricing climate change and carbon Access and renewal BPs future hydrocarbon production depends pricing policies could result in higher costs and reduction in future on our ability to renew and reposition our portfolio.
Increasing revenue and strategic growth opportunities.
competition for access to investment opportunities, the effects of Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill on our reputation and cash ows, and climate change could result in substantial capital expenditure, taxes, more stringent regulation could result in decreased access to reduced profitability from changes in operating costs, and revenue opportunities globally.
generation and strategic growth opportunities being impacted.
Our Successful execution of our group strategy depends on implementing commitment to the transition to a lower-carbon economy may create activities to renew and reposition our portfolio.
The challenges to renewal expectations for our activities, and the level of participation in alternative of our upstream portfolio are growing due to increasing competition for energies carries reputational, economic and technology risks.
access to opportunities globally among both national and international oil companies, and heightened political and economic risks in certain Socio-political the diverse nature of our operations around the world exposes us to a wide range of political developments and countries where significant hydrocarbon basins are located.
Lack of material positions could impact our future hydrocarbon production.
consequent changes to the operating environment, regulatory environment and law.
Moreover, the Incident has damaged BPs reputation, which may have a We have operations, and are seeking new opportunities, in countries long-term impact on the groups ability to access new opportunities, both where political, economic and social transition is taking place.
Some in the US and elsewhere.
Adverse public, political, regulatory and industry countries have experienced, or may experience in the future, political sentiment towards BP, and towards oil and gas drilling activities generally, instability, changes to the regulatory environment, changes in taxation, could damage or impair our existing commercial relationships with expropriation or nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, acts of war counterparties, partners and host governments and could impair our and insurrections.
Any of these conditions occurring could disrupt or access to new investment opportunities, exploration properties, terminate our operations, causing our development activities to be operatorships or other essential commercial arrangements with potential curtailed or terminated in these areas, or our production to decline, could partners and host governments, particularly in the US.
In addition, limit our ability to pursue new opportunities, could affect the recoverability responding to the Incident has placed, and will continue to place, a of our assets and could cause us to incur additional costs.
In particular, our significant burden on our cash ow over the next several years, which investments in the US, Russia, the Middle East region, North Africa, could also impede our ability to invest in new opportunities and deliver Bolivia, Argentina, Angola, Azerbaijan and other countries could be long-term growth.
adversely affected by heightened political and economic environment More stringent regulation of the oil and gas industry generally, and of BPs risks.
See pages 6-7 for information on the locations of our major areas of activities specically, following the Incident, could increase this risk.
38 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth We set ourselves high standards of corporate citizenship and aspire to transaction as contemplated due to the failure to receive required contribute to a better quality of life through the products and services we approvals or otherwise could negatively impact our reputation and result provide.
If it is perceived that we are not respecting or advancing the in a loss of stakeholder confidence in BPs ability to meet its identied economic and social progress of the communities in which we operate or strategic objectives in Russia.
In addition, to the extent we fail to maintain that we have not satisfactorily addressed all relevant stakeholder concerns a good commercial relationship with Rosneft in the future, or to the extent in respect of our operations, our reputation and shareholder value could be that as a minority shareholder in Rosneft we are unable in the future to damaged and development opportunities may be precluded.
exercise inuence over our investment in Rosneft or other growth opportunities in Russia, our business and strategic objectives in Russia Competition BPs group strategy depends upon continuous and our ability to recognize our share of Rosnefts reserves as innovation and efficiency in a highly competitive market.
contemplated may be adversely impacted.
The oil, gas and petrochemicals industries are highly competitive.
There is strong competition, both within the oil and gas industry and with other Investment efficiency poor investment decisions could negatively industries, in supplying the fuel needs of commerce, industry and the impact our business.
Competition puts pressure on the terms of access to new Our organic growth is dependent on creating a portfolio of quality options opportunities, licence costs and product prices, affects oil products and investing in the best options.
Ineffective investment selection and or marketing and requires continuous management focus on reducing unit subsequent execution could lead to loss of value and higher capital costs and improving efficiency, while ensuring safety and operational risk expenditure.
The implementation of group strategy requires Reserves progression inability to progress upstream resources in continued technological advances and innovation including advances in a timely manner could adversely affect our long-term replacement exploration, production, rening, petrochemicals manufacturing of reserves and negatively impact our business.
technology and advances in technology related to energy usage.
Our Successful execution of our group strategy depends critically on performance could be impeded if competitors developed or acquired sustaining long-term reserves replacement.
If upstream resources are not intellectual property rights to technology that we require, if our innovation progressed in a timely and efficient manner due to commercial, technical lagged the industry, or if we fail to adequately protect our company brands or regulatory reasons or otherwise, we will be unable to sustain long-term and trade marks.
Our competitive position in comparison to our peers replacement of reserves.
could be adversely affected if competitors offer superior terms for access Major project delivery our group plan depends upon successful rights or licences, if we fail to control our operating costs or manage our delivery of major projects, and failure to deliver major projects margins, or if we fail to sustain, develop and operate efficiently a high successfully could adversely affect our financial performance.
Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on implementing Joint ventures and other contractual arrangements BP may the activities to deliver the major projects over the plan period.
Poor not have full operational control and may have exposure to delivery of any major project that underpins production or production counterparty credit risk and disruptions to our operations and growth and or any other major programme designed to enhance strategic objectives due to the nature of some of its business shareholder value, including maintenance turnaround programmes, could relationships.
adversely affect our financial performance.
Successful project delivery Many of our major projects and operations are conducted through joint requires, among other things, adequate engineering and other capabilities ventures or associates and through contracting and sub-contracting and therefore successful recruitment and development of staff is central arrangements.
These arrangements often involve complex risk allocation, to our plans.
See People and capability on page 40. decision-making processes and indemnification arrangements.
In certain Digital infrastructure is an important part of maintaining our cases, we may have less control of such activities than we would have if operations, and a breach of our digital security could result in BP had full operational control.
Our partners may have economic or serious damage to business operations, personal injury, damage to business interests or objectives that are inconsistent with, or opposed to, assets, harm to the environment, reputational damage, breaches of those of BP and may exercise veto rights to block certain key decisions or regulations, litigation, legal liabilities and reparation costs.
actions that BP believes are in its or the joint ventures or associates best The reliability and security of our digital infrastructure are critical to interests, or approve such matters without our consent.
Additionally, our maintaining the availability of our business applications, including the joint venture partners or associates or contractual counterparties are reliable operation of technology in our various business operations and the primarily responsible for the adequacy of the human or technical collection and processing of financial and operational data, as well as the competencies and capabilities which they bring to bear on the joint project condentiality of certain third-party information.
A breach of our digital and, in the event these are found to be lacking, our joint-venture partners security, either due to intentional actions or due to negligence, could or associates may not be able to meet their financial or other obligations cause serious damage to business operations and, in some to their counterparties or to the relevant project, potentially threatening circumstances, could result in the loss of data or sensitive information, the viability of such projects.
Furthermore, should accidents or incidents injury to people, damage to assets, harm to the environment, reputational occur in operations in which BP participates, whether as operator or damage, breaches of regulations, litigation, legal liabilities and reparation otherwise, and where it is held that our sub-contractors or joint-venture costs.
partners are legally liable to share any aspects of the cost of responding to such incidents, the financial capacity of these third parties may prove Business continuity and disaster recovery the group must be able inadequate to fully indemnify BP against the costs we incur on behalf of to recover quickly and effectively from any disruption or incident, the joint venture or contractual arrangement.
Should a key sub-contractor, as failure to do so could adversely affect our business and such as a lessor of drilling rigs, be no longer able to make these assets operations.
available to BP, this could result in serious disruption to our operations.
Contingency plans are required to continue or recover operations following Where BP does not have operational control of a venture, BP may a disruption or incident.
Inability to restore or replace critical capacity to an nonetheless still be pursued by regulators or claimants in the event of an agreed level within an agreed timeframe would prolong the impact of any incident.
disruption and could severely affect our business and operations.
Rosneft transaction BPs failure to complete the agreed Crisis management crisis management plans are essential to transaction with Rosneft, or any future erosion of our relationship respond effectively to emergencies and to avoid a potentially with Rosneft, could adversely impact our business, the level of our severe disruption in our business and operations.
Crisis management plans and capability are essential to deal with On 22 November 2012, BP announced that it had signed denitive and emergencies at every level of our operations.
If we do not respond, or are binding agreements in respect of the sale of BPs 50% interest in TNK-BP perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to either an external or to Rosneft and BPs investment in Rosneft the Rosneft transaction.
See internal crisis, our business and operations could be severely disrupted.
Completion of the Rosneft transaction is subject to certain customary closing conditions, including governmental, regulatory and anti-trust approvals.
Failure by BP to complete the Rosneft Business review: BP in more depth 39 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 People and capability successful recruitment, development and Insurance BPs insurance strategy means that the group could, utilization of staff is central to our plans.
from time to time, be exposed to material uninsured losses which Successful recruitment of new staff, employee training, development and could have a material adverse effect on BPs financial condition and continuing enhancement of skills, in particular technical capabilities such results of operations.
as petroleum engineers and scientists, are key to implementing our plans.
In the context of the limited capacity of the insurance market, many Inability to develop human capacity and capability, both across the significant risks are retained by BP.
The group generally restricts its organization and in specic operating locations, could jeopardize purchase of insurance to situations where this is required for legal or performance delivery.
The group relies on recruiting and retaining contractual reasons.
This means that the group could be exposed to high-quality employees to execute its strategic plans and to operate its material uninsured losses, which could have a material adverse effect business.
The reputational damage suffered by the group as a result of the on its financial condition and results of operations.
In particular, these Incident and any consequent adverse impact on our business could affect uninsured costs could arise at a time when BP is facing material costs employee recruitment and retention.
arising out of some other event which could put pressure on BPs liquidity and cash ows.
For example, BP has borne and will continue to bear the In addition, significant board and management focus continues to be entire burden of its share of any property damage, well control, pollution required in responding to matters related to the Incident.
Although BP clean-up and third-party liability expenses arising out of the Gulf of Mexico set up the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization to manage the groups oil spill.
long-term response, other key management personnel will need to continue to devote substantial attention to addressing the associated Compliance and control risks consequences for the group, which may negatively impact our staffs Our settlement with the US Department of Justice and the SEC in capability to address and respond to other operational matters affecting respect of federal criminal charges and US securities law violations the group but unrelated to the Incident.
related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill may expose us to further Liquidity, financial capacity and financial, including credit, exposure penalties, liabilities and private litigation, and may impact our failure to operate within our financial framework could impact operations and adversely affect our ability to quickly and efficiently our ability to operate and result in financial loss.
Exchange rate access US capital markets.
uctuations can impact our underlying costs and revenues.
On 15 November 2012, BP reached an agreement with the US government The group seeks to maintain a financial framework to ensure that it is able to resolve all federal criminal and securities claims arising out of the Incident to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity.
This and comprising settlements with the US Department of Justice DoJ and framework constrains the level of assessed capital at risk for the purposes the SEC.
On 29 January 2013, the US District Court for the Eastern District of positions taken in financial instruments.
Failure to accurately forecast or of Louisiana accepted BPs pleas regarding the federal criminal charges, and maintain sufficient liquidity and credit to meet these needs including a sentenced BP in accordance with the criminal plea agreement.
BP pleaded failure to understand and respond to potential liabilities could impact our guilty to 11 felony counts of Misconduct or Neglect of Ships Ofcers relating ability to operate and result in a financial loss.
Commercial credit risk is to the loss of 11 lives: one misdemeanour count under the Clean Water Act: measured and controlled to determine the groups total credit risk.
Inability one misdemeanour count under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act: and one to determine adequately our credit exposure could lead to financial loss.
felony count of obstruction of Congress.
Pursuant to that sentence, BP will Trade and other receivables, including overdue receivables, may not be pay $4 billion, including $1.256 billion in criminal fines, in instalments over a recovered whether an impairment provision has been recognized or not.
The court also ordered, as previously agreed with the A credit crisis affecting banks and other sectors of the economy could US government, that BP serve a term of five years probation.
Pursuant to impact the ability of counterparties to meet their financial obligations to the terms of the plea agreement, the court also ordered certain equitable the group.
It could also affect our ability to raise capital to fund growth, to relief, including additional actions, enforceable by the court, to further maintain our long-term investment programme and to meet our enhance the safety of drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
In addition, obligations, and may impact shareholder returns, including dividends and BP will undertake several initiatives with academia and regulators to develop share buybacks, or share price.
Decreases in the funded levels of our new technologies related to deepwater drilling safety.
The resolution also pension plans may also increase our pension funding requirements.
The provides for the appointment of two monitors, both with terms of four years.
groups financial framework may not be sufficient to respond to a A process safety monitor will review, evaluate, and provide substantial and unexpected cash call or funding request, and external recommendations for the improvement of BPs process safety and risk events may materially impact the effectiveness of the groups financial management procedures concerning deepwater drilling in the Gulf of framework.
In addition, operational challenges could impact the availability Mexico.
An ethics monitor will review and provide recommendations for the of the groups assets, which could adversely affect the groups operating improvement of BPs code of conduct and its implementation and cash ows.
BP has also agreed to hire an independent third-party auditor who will review and report to the probation officer, the DoJ, and BP BPs potential liabilities resulting from pending and future claims, lawsuits, regarding BPs implementation of key terms of the proposed settlement, settlements and enforcement actions relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil including procedures and systems related to safety and environmental spill, together with the potential cost of implementing remedies sought in management, operational oversight, and oil spill response training and drills.
the various proceedings, cannot be fully estimated at this time but they Under the plea agreement, BP has also agreed to co-operate in ongoing have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse impact on the criminal actions and investigations, including prosecutions of four former groups financial performance and liquidity.
Further potential liabilities may employees who have been separately charged.
continue to have a material adverse effect on the groups results of operations and financial condition.
See Financial statements Note 43 on Also on 15 November 2012, BP reached a settlement with the SEC to page 253 and Legal proceedings on pages 162-171.
More stringent resolve the SECs Deepwater Horizon-related claims against the company regulation of the oil and gas industry arising from the Incident, and of BPs under Sections 10 b and 13 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 activities specically, could increase this risk.
Under the SEC settlement, BP has agreed to a civil penalty of $525 million, payable in three instalments over a period of three Crude oil prices are generally set in US dollars, while sales of rened years, and has consented to the entry of an injunction prohibiting it from products may be in a variety of currencies.
In addition, a high proportion of violating certain US securities laws and regulations.
The SEC settlement was our major project development costs are denominated in local currencies, approved by the US District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana on 10 which may be subject to volatile uctuations against the US dollar.
See Legal proceedings on pages 162-171.
Fluctuations in exchange rates can therefore give rise to foreign exchange exposures, with a consequent impact on underlying costs and revenues.
On 28 November 2012, the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA See Prices and markets on page 38. notied BP that it had temporarily suspended BP p. l. c. BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP and a number of other BP subsidiaries from See Financial statements Note 26 on page 220 for more information on participating in new federal contracts.
As a result of the temporary financial instruments and financial risk factors.
suspension, the BP entities listed in the EPA notice are ineligible to receive any US government contracts either through the award of a new contract, or the extension of the term or renewal of an expiring contract.
The suspension 40 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth does not affect existing contracts the company has with the US impact the industry as a whole and could be directed specically towards government, including those relating to current and ongoing drilling and BP.
New regulations and legislation, the terms of BPs settlements with US production operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
government authorities and future settlements or litigation outcomes related to the Incident, and or evolving practices could increase the cost of The charges to which BPXP pleaded guilty included one misdemeanour compliance and may require changes to our drilling operations, exploration, count under the Clean Water Act which, by operation of law following the development and decommissioning plans, and could impact our ability to courts acceptance of BPs plea, triggers a statutory debarment, also capitalize on our assets and limit our access to new exploration properties or referred to as mandatory debarment, of the BPXP facility where the Clean operatorships, particularly in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
In addition, Water Act violation occurred.
increases in taxes, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or On 1 February 2013, the EPA issued a notice that BPXP was mandatorily governmental agencies, or restrictions on availability of tax relief, could also debarred at its Houston headquarters.
Mandatory debarment prevents a be imposed as a response to the Incident.
company from entering into new contracts or new leases with the US In addition, the oil industry in general is subject to regulation and intervention government that would be performed at the facility where the Clean Water by governments throughout the world in such matters as the award of Act violation occurred.
A mandatory debarment does not affect any existing exploration and production interests, the imposition of specic drilling contracts or leases a company has with the US government and will remain obligations, environmental, health and safety controls, controls over the in place until such time as the debarment is lifted through an agreement with development and decommissioning of a eld including restrictions on the EPA.
production and, possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or With respect to the entities named in the temporary suspension, the non-renewal of contract rights.
temporary suspension may be maintained or the EPA may elect to issue a We buy, sell and trade oil and gas products in certain regulated commodity notice of proposed discretionary debarment to some or all of the named markets.
Failure to respond to changes in trading regulations could result in entities.
Like suspension, a discretionary debarment would preclude BP regulatory action and damage to our reputation.
The oil industry is also entities listed in the notice from receiving new federal fuel contracts, as well subject to the payment of royalties and taxation, which tend to be high as new oil and gas leases, although existing contracts and leases will compared with those payable in respect of other commercial activities, and continue.
Discretionary debarment typically lasts three to five years and may operates in certain tax jurisdictions that have a degree of uncertainty relating be imposed for a longer period, unless it is resolved through an to the interpretation of, and changes to, tax law.
As a result of new laws and administrative agreement.
regulations or other factors, we could be required to curtail or cease certain While BPs discussions with the EPA have been taking place in parallel to the operations, or we could incur additional costs.
See pages 51-54 for more court proceedings on the criminal plea, the companys work toward reaching information on environmental regulation.
an administrative agreement with the EPA is a separate process, and it may Ethical misconduct and non-compliance ethical misconduct or take some time to resolve issues relating to such an agreement.
BPs breaches of applicable laws by our employees could be damaging to mandatory debarment applies following sentencing and is not an indication our reputation and shareholder value.
of any change in the status of discussions with the EPA.
The process for Our code of conduct, which applies to all employees, defines our resolving both mandatory and discretionary debarment is essentially the commitment to integrity, compliance with all applicable legal requirements, same as for resolving the temporary suspension.
BP continues to work with diversity, high ethical standards and the behaviours and actions we expect of the EPA in preparing an administrative agreement that will resolve our businesses and people wherever we operate.
Our values are intended to suspension and debarment issues.
guide the way we and our employees behave and do business.
Under the The DoJ criminal and SEC settlements impose significant compliance and terms of the DoJ settlement see pages 40-41, an ethics monitor will review remedial obligations on BP and its directors, ofcers and employees.
Failure and provide recommendations for the improvement of our code of conduct to comply with the terms of these settlements could result in further and its implementation and enforcement.
Incidents of ethical misconduct, enforcement action by the DoJ and the SEC, expose BP to severe penalties, non-compliance with the recommendations of the ethics monitor or financial or otherwise, and subject BP to further private litigation, each of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including nonwhich could impact our operations and have a material adverse effect on the compliance with anti-bribery, anti-corruption and other applicable laws could groups business.
Prolonged suspension or debarment from entering new be damaging to our reputation and shareholder value and could subject us to federal contracts, or further suspension or debarment proceedings against further regulatory action or penalties under the terms of the DoJ settlement.
BP and or its subsidiaries as a result of violations of the terms of the DoJ or Multiple events of non-compliance could call into question the integrity of SEC settlements or otherwise, could have a material adverse impact on the our operations.
For example, in our trading businesses, there is the risk that a groups operations in the US.
determined individual could operate as a rogue trader, acting outside BPs delegations, controls or code of conduct and in contravention of our values in As a result of the SEC settlement, as of the ling with the SEC of certain pursuit of personal objectives that could be to the detriment of BP and its registration statements on Form S-8 on 5 February 2013, and for a period of shareholders.
three years thereafter, we will no longer be qualied as a well known seasoned issuer WKSI as dened in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of For certain legal proceedings involving the group, see Legal proceedings on 1933, as amended Securities Act, and therefore will not be able to take pages 162-171.
For further information on the risks involved in BPs trading advantage of the benets available to a WKSI, including engaging in delayed activities, see Treasury and trading activities on page 43. or continuous offerings of securities using an automatic shelf registration Liabilities and provisions BPs potential liabilities resulting from statement.
In addition, as of the settlement date and for a period of five pending and future claims, lawsuits, settlements and enforcement years thereafter, we are no longer able to utilize certain registration actions relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, together with the exemptions provided by the Securities Act in connection with certain potential cost and burdens of implementing remedies sought in the securities offerings.
In addition, we may be denied certain trading various proceedings, cannot be fully estimated at this time but they authorizations under the rules of the US Commodities Futures Trading have had, and are expected to continue to have, a material adverse Commission, which may prevent us in the future from entering certain impact on the groups business.
routine swap transactions for an indefinite period of time.
Under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90, BP Exploration & Production Regulatory BP, and the oil industry in general, face increased Inc. and BP Corporation North America are among the parties nancially regulation in the US and elsewhere that could increase the cost of responsible for the clean-up of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and for certain regulatory compliance and limit our access to new exploration economic damages as provided for in OPA 90, as well as certain natural properties.
resource damages associated with the spill and certain costs determined by Due to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and any remedial provisions contained in or federal and state trustees engaged in a joint assessment of such natural resulting from the DoJ and SEC settlements see Legal proceedings on resource damages.
pages 162-169, it is likely that there will be more stringent regulation of BPs BP and certain of its subsidiaries have also been named as defendants in oil and gas activities in the US and elsewhere, particularly relating to numerous lawsuits in the US arising out of the Incident, including actions for environmental, health and safety controls and oversight of drilling operations, personal injury and wrongful death, purported class actions for commercial as well as access to new drilling areas.
Regulatory or legislative action may Business review: BP in more depth 41 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 or economic injury, actions for breach of contract, violations of statutes, Other business economic loss claims have continued to be paid at a higher property and other environmental damage, securities law claims and various average amount than previously assumed by BP in determining its initial other claims.
See Legal proceedings on pages 162-169. estimate of the total cost.
Management has continued to analyse the claims in the period since 5 February 2013 to gain a better understanding of BP is subject to a number of investigations related to the Incident by whether or not the number and average value of claims received and numerous federal and State agencies.
See Legal proceedings on pages 162- processed to date are predictive of future claims and so would allow 169.
The types of enforcement action pursued and the nature of the management to estimate the total cost of the Settlements reliably.
remedies sought will depend on the discretion of the prosecutors and Management has concluded based upon this analysis that it is not possible regulatory authorities and, in some circumstances, their assessment of BPs to determine whether the claims experience to date is, or is not, an culpability, if any, following their investigations.
Under the Clean Water Act, appropriate basis for determining the total cost.
Therefore, given the inherent any nding of gross negligence for purposes of penalties sought against BP uncertainty that exists as BP pursues all available legal options to challenge would result in signicantly higher fines and penalties than the amounts for the recent ruling and the higher number of claims received and higher which we have provided and would also have a material adverse impact on average claims payments than previously assumed by BP, which may or may the groups reputation, would affect our ability to recover costs relating to the not continue, management has concluded that no reliable estimate can be Incident from other parties responsible under OPA 90 and could affect the made of any business economic loss claims not yet received or processed fines and penalties payable by BP with respect to the Incident under by the DHCSSP.
enforcement actions outside the Clean Water Act context.
Therefore, BPs estimate of the cost of business economic loss claims at On 3 March 2012, BP reached an agreement comprising two separate 31 December 2012 now includes only the estimated cost of claims already settlement agreements with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC in the received and processed by the DHCSSP.
An amount of $0.8 billion Multi-District Litigation pending in New Orleans MDL 2179 to resolve the previously provided for future claims not yet received and processed by the substantial majority of legitimate private economic and property damages DHCSSP has been derecognized, with a corresponding reduction in the claims and medical benets claims stemming from the Incident.
The reimbursement asset and therefore no net impact on the income statement, settlement agreement in respect of economic and property damages claims as no reliable estimate can be made for this liability.
It is therefore disclosed was approved by the Court on 21 December 2012, and the settlement as a contingent liability in Note 43.
A provision will be re-established when a agreement in respect of medical benets claims was approved on 11 reliable estimate can be made of the liability as explained more fully below.
The PSC settlement is uncapped except for economic loss claims related to the Gulf seafood industry.
The cost of the PSC settlement BPs current estimate of the total cost of those elements of the PSC is expected to be paid from the $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust settlement that can be estimated reliably, which excludes any future fund Trust.
As at 31 December 2011, the estimate of items covered by the business economic loss claims not yet received or processed by the settlement with the PSC for Individual and Business claims was $7.8 billion.
During 2012, BP increased its estimate of the cost of claims administration If BP is successful in its challenge to the courts ruling, the total estimated by $280 million and also increased the estimate by a further $400 million as cost of the settlement agreement will, nevertheless, be signicantly described below.
higher than the current estimate of $7.7 billion, because business Business economic loss claims received by the Deepwater Horizon Court economic loss claims not yet received or processed are not reected in Supervised Settlement Program DHCSSP to date are being paid at a the current estimate and the average payments per claim determined so signicantly higher average amount than previously assumed by BP in far are higher than anticipated.
If BP is not successful in its challenge to formulating the original estimate of the cost.
Further, BPs initial estimate of the courts ruling, a further significant increase to the total estimated cost aggregate liability under the settlement agreements was premised on BPs of the settlement will be required.
However, there can be no certainty as interpretation of certain protocols established in the economic and property to how the dispute will ultimately be resolved or determined.
To the damages settlement agreement.
As part of its monitoring of payments extent that there are insufficient funds available in the Trust fund, made by the court-supervised claims processes operated by the DHCSSP payments under the PSC settlement will be made by BP directly and for the economic and property damages settlement, BP identied multiple charged to the income statement.
claim determinations that appeared to result from an interpretation of the As previously disclosed, significant uncertainties exist in relation to the settlement agreement by that settlements claims administrator that BP amount of claims that are to be paid and will become payable through the believes was incorrect.
This interpretation produced a higher number and claims process.
There is significant uncertainty in relation to the amounts value of awards than the interpretation BP assumed in making the initial that ultimately will be paid in relation to current claims, and the number, type estimate.
Pursuant to the mechanisms in that settlement agreement, the and amounts payable for claims not yet reported.
In addition, there is further claims administrator sought clarification from the court on this matter and on uncertainty in relation to interpretations of the claims administrator regarding 30 January 2013, the court initially upheld the claims administrators the protocols under the economic and property damages settlement interpretation of the agreement.
agreement and judicial interpretation of these protocols, and the outcomes In its unaudited fourth quarter and full year 2012 results announcement dated of any further litigation including in relation to potential opt-outs from the 5 February 2013, BP stated that if the initial trend of higher average payments settlement or otherwise.
than assumed by BP in its original estimate of the cost continued, then it was While BP has determined its current best estimate of the cost of those likely that BPs estimate of these claims would be increased signicantly.
aspects of the settlement with the PSC that can be measured reliably, it is Managements initial assessment of the ruling regarding the interpretation of possible that the actual cost could be signicantly higher than this estimate the settlement agreement led to an increase in the estimated cost of the due to the uncertainties noted above.
In addition, the provision will be settlement with the PSC of $400 million, bringing the total estimated cost to re-established for remaining business economic loss claims and the $8.5 billion.
This estimate was based upon managements initial assessment estimate will increase as more information becomes available, the of the rulings impact on claims already submitted to and processed by the interpretation of the protocols is claried and the claims process matures, DHCSSP.
At that time, BP was seeking reversal of the courts decision in enabling BP to estimate reliably the cost of these claims.
See Financial relation to this matter, management concluded that it was not possible to statements Note 36 on page 235 and Note 43 on page 253 for further estimate reliably the impact of the interpretation on any future claims not yet information.
received or processed by the DHCSSP.
The Gulf of Mexico oil spill has damaged BPs reputation.
This, combined On 6 February 2013, the court reconsidered and vacated its ruling of with other past events in the US including the 2005 explosion at the Texas 30 January 2013 and stayed the processing of certain types of business City renery and the 2006 pipeline leaks in Alaska, may lead to an increase economic loss claims.
The court lifted the stay on 28 February 2013.
On 5 in the number of citations and or the level of fines imposed in relation to any March 2013, the court afrmed the claims administrators interpretation of alleged breaches of safety or environmental regulations.
the economic and property damages settlement agreement and rejected See Legal proceedings on pages 162-169 and Financial statements Note 2 BPs position as it relates to business economic loss claims.
BP strongly on page 194. disagrees with the decision of 5 March 2013 and the current implementation of the agreement by the claims administrator.
BP intends to pursue all available legal options, including rights of appeal, to challenge this ruling.
42 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Reporting failure to accurately report our data could lead to Safety and operational risks regulatory action, legal liability and reputational damage.
The risks inherent in our operations include a number of hazards that, External reporting of financial and non-financial data is reliant on the integrity although many may have a low probability of occurrence, can have of systems and people.
Failure to report data accurately and in compliance extremely serious consequences if they do occur, such as the Gulf of with external standards could result in regulatory action, legal liability and Mexico oil spill.
The occurrence of any such risks could have a consequent damage to our reputation.
material adverse impact on the groups business, competitive position, cash As of the date of the SEC settlement, 10 December 2012, and for a period of ows, results of operations, financial position, prospects, liquidity, three years thereafter, we are unable to rely on the safe harbor provisions shareholder returns and or implementation of the groups strategic goals.
regarding forward-looking statements provided by the regulations issued Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks the nature under the Securities Act, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of our operations exposes us to a wide range of significant health, amended.
Our inability to rely on these safe harbor provisions may expose safety, security and environmental risks, the occurrence of which us to future litigation and liabilities in connection with forward-looking could result in regulatory action, legal liability and increased costs statements in our public disclosures.
and damage to our reputation.
Changes in external factors could affect our results of operations and The nature of the groups operations exposes us to a wide range of the adequacy of our provisions.
significant health, safety, security and environmental risks.
The scope of We remain exposed to changes in the external environment, such as new these risks is inuenced by the geographic range, operational diversity and laws and regulations whether imposed by international treaty or by national technical complexity of our activities.
In addition, in many of our major or local governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in tax projects and operations, risk allocation and management is shared with third or royalty regimes, price controls, government actions to cancel or parties such as contractors, sub-contractors, joint venture partners and renegotiate contracts, market volatility or other factors.
See Strategic and commercial risks Joint ventures and other reduce our profitability from operations in certain jurisdictions, limit our contractual arrangements on page 39. opportunities for new access, require us to divest or write-down certain There are risks of technical integrity failure as well as risk of natural disasters assets or affect the adequacy of our provisions for pensions, tax, and other adverse conditions in many of the areas in which we operate, environmental and legal liabilities.
Potential changes to pension or financial which could lead to loss of containment of hydrocarbons and other market regulation could also impact funding requirements of the group.
hazardous material, as well as the risk of res, explosions or other incidents.
Treasury and trading activities control of these activities depends In addition, inability to provide safe environments for our workforce and the on our ability to process, manage and monitor a large number of public while at our facilities or premises could lead to injuries or loss of life transactions.
Failure to do this effectively could lead to business and could result in regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our disruption, financial loss, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation.
Our operations are often conducted in difficult or environmentally sensitive In the normal course of business, we are subject to operational risk around our treasury and trading activities.
Control of these activities is highly locations, in which the consequences of a spill, explosion, re or other incident could be greater than in other locations.
These operations are dependent on our ability to process, manage and monitor a large number of complex transactions across many markets and currencies.
Shortcomings or subject to various environmental and safety laws, regulations and permits and the consequences of failure to comply with these requirements can failures in our systems, risk management methodology, internal control processes or people could lead to disruption of our business, financial loss, include remediation obligations, penalties, loss of operating permits and other sanctions.
Accordingly, inherent in our operations is the risk that if we regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation.
fail to abide by environmental and safety and protection standards, such Following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, Moodys Investors Service, Standard failure could lead to damage to the environment and could result in and Poors and Fitch Ratings downgraded the groups long-term credit regulatory action, legal liability, material costs, damage to our reputation or ratings.
Since that time, the groups credit ratings have improved somewhat denial of our licence to operate.
but are still lower than they were immediately before the Gulf of Mexico oil BPs group-wide operating management system OMS intends to address spill.
The impact that a significant operational incident can have on the health, safety, security, environmental and operations risks, and to provide a groups credit ratings, taken together with the reputational consequences of consistent framework within which the group can analyse the performance any such incident, the ratings and assessments published by analysts and of its activities and identify and remediate shortfalls.
There can be no investors concerns about the groups costs arising from any such incident, assurance that OMS will adequately identify all process safety, personal ongoing contingencies, liquidity, financial performance and volatile credit safety and environmental risk or provide the correct mitigations, or that all spreads, could increase the groups nancing costs and limit the groups operations will be in conformance with OMS at all times.
The groups ability to engage in its trading activities could also be impacted due to counterparty concerns about the groups Security hostile activities against our staff and activities could financial and business risk prole in such circumstances.
Such cause harm to people and disrupt our operations.
counterparties could require that the group provide collateral or other forms Security threats require continuous oversight and control.
Acts of terrorism, of financial security for its obligations, particularly if the groups credit ratings piracy, sabotage, cyber-attacks and similar activities directed against our are downgraded.
Certain counterparties for the groups non-trading operations and ofces, pipelines, transportation or computer systems could businesses could also require that the group provide collateral for certain of cause harm to people and could severely disrupt business and operations.
its contractual obligations, particularly if the groups credit ratings were Our business activities could also be severely disrupted by, among other downgraded below investment grade or where a counterparty had concerns things, conict, civil strife or political unrest in areas where we operate.
about the groups financial and business risk prole following a significant Product quality failure to meet product quality standards could lead operational incident.
In addition, BP may be unable to make a drawdown to harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
under certain of its committed borrowing facilities in the event that we are Supplying customers with on-specication products is critical to maintaining aware that there are pending or threatened legal, arbitration or administrative our licence to operate and our reputation in the marketplace.
Failure to meet proceedings which, if determined adversely, might reasonably be expected product quality standards throughout the value chain could lead to harm to to have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet the payment people and the environment and loss of customers.
obligations under any of these facilities.
Credit rating downgrades could trigger a requirement for the company to review its funding arrangements with the BP pension trustees.
Extended constraints on the groups ability to obtain nancing and to engage in its trading activities on acceptable terms or at all would put pressure on the groups liquidity.
In addition, this could occur at a time when cash ows from our business operations would be constrained following a significant operational incident, and the group could be required to reduce planned capital expenditures and or increase asset disposals in order to provide additional liquidity, as the group did following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
Business review: BP in more depth 43 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Drilling and production these activities require high levels of investment and are subject to natural hazards and other uncertainties.
Activities in challenging environments heighten many of the drilling and production risks including those of integrity failures, which could lead to curtailment, delay or cancellation of drilling operations, or inadequate returns from exploration expenditure.
Exploration and production require high levels of investment and are subject to natural hazards and other uncertainties, including those relating to the physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas eld.
Our exploration and production activities are often conducted in extremely challenging environments, which heighten the risks of technical integrity failure and natural disasters discussed above.
The cost of drilling, completing or operating wells is often uncertain.
We may be required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations because of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and compliance with governmental requirements.
In addition, exploration expenditure may not yield adequate returns, for example in the case of unproductive wells or discoveries that prove uneconomic to develop.
The Gulf of Mexico oil spill illustrates the risks we face in our drilling and production activities.
Transportation all modes of transportation of hydrocarbons involve inherent and significant risks.
All modes of transportation of hydrocarbons involve inherent risks.
An explosion or re or loss of containment of hydrocarbons or other hazardous material could occur during transportation by road, rail, sea or pipeline.
This is a significant risk due to the potential impact of a release on people and the environment and given the high volumes potentially involved.
44 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth law in effect at the time of such scrip dividend distributions.
In accordance Further note on certain activities with relevant EU sanctions under EU Regulation 945 2012, BP has withheld During the period covered by this report, non-US subsidiaries or other scrip dividend distributions to Naftiran Intertrade Co. Limited from October non-US entities of BP conducted limited activities in, or with persons from, 2012. certain countries identied by the US Department of State as State BP has become aware that a Canadian university had been using graduate Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US sanctions Sanctioned Countries.
These activities continue to be insignicant to the groups students, some of whom were nationals of Iran, on a research programme funded in part by BP.
BP has suspended such programme and made an initial financial condition and results of operations.
voluntary disclosure to the US Treasury Departments Ofce of Foreign Assets In July 2012, US President Obama signed Executive Order 13622 EO Control OFAC, and is currently reviewing these activities to determine to what authorizing the imposition of additional sanctions against persons who extent, if any, the activities may have violated OFAC Regulations.
engage in certain dealings with Iran, and in August 2012, the US Congress enacted the US Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 In addition, BP has become aware that in 2010, as consideration for certain ITRA.
Further, on 3 January 2013, US President Obama signed into law auditing services, BP effected a transfer of funds to a local Iranian consulting the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, containing a rm which may have been in violation of relevant EU notication subtitle known as the Iran Freedom and  Act of 2012 requirements.
BP is reviewing this funds transfer to determine to what IFCPA that will impose additional sanctions against Iran when its extent, if any, BP may have violated relevant EU regulations.
provisions become effective in July 2013.
Together, these measures impose Following the imposition in 2011 of further US and EU sanctions against additional sanctions against Iran which include new sanctions against Syria, BP terminated all sales of crude oil and petroleum products into Syria, persons involved with Irans energy, shipping and petrochemicals industries, though BP continues to supply aviation fuel to non-governmental Syrian and sanctions against financial institutions that engage in significant resellers outside of Syria.
transactions with the Iran Central Bank.
BP sells lubricants in Cuba through a 50:50 joint venture and trades in small Similarly the EU has strengthened its sanctions on Iran.
On 23 March 2012 quantities of lubricants.
BP sold small quantities of lubricants to third parties the Council of the European Union extended its existing measures against that were resold in Sudan: BP has terminated these sales.
In the first quarter Iran by promulgating Regulation 267 2012 which included a prohibition on of 2013, BP sold a small quantity of lubricants to a third-party drilling the import, purchase and transport of Iranian-origin crude oil and petroleum company for use in Myanmar.
Further, on 15 October 2012, the EU announced new restrictive BP has equity interests in non-operated joint ventures with air fuel sellers, measures against Iran and certain Iranian entities, including Naftiran resellers, and fuel delivery services around the world.
From time to time, the Intertrade Co. Limited, some of which were effective immediately, and joint venture operator may sell or deliver fuel to airlines from Sanctioned some of which were implemented by an amending Regulation 1263 2012 Countries or ights to Sanctioned Countries without BPs knowledge or on 22 December 2012, including a prohibition on the import, purchase and consent.
BP has registered and paid required fees for patents and transport of Iranian-origin natural gas.
trade marks in Sanctioned Countries.
Both the US and the EU have enacted strong sanctions against Syria, Disclosure pursuant to Section 219 of ITRA including a prohibition on the purchase of Syrian-origin crude and a US prohibition on the provision of services to Syria by US persons.
The EU To our knowledge, none of BPs activities, transactions or dealings are required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRA Section 219, with the following sanctions against Syria include a prohibition on supplying certain equipment used in the production, rening, or liquefaction of petroleum resources as possible exceptions: well as restrictions on dealing with the Central Bank of Syria and numerous The Rhum eld Rhum, located in the UK sector of the North Sea, is other Syrian financial institutions.
operated by BP Exploration Operating Company Limited BPEOC, a non-US subsidiary of BP.
Rhum is owned under a 50:50 unincorporated joint BP seeks to comply with all applicable laws and regulations of the US, the venture between BPEOC and Iranian Oil Company U. K. Limited IOC.
The EU and other countries where BP operates, and monitors its activities with Rhum joint venture was originally formed in 1974.
During the period of Sanctioned Countries and persons from Sanctioned Countries.
production from Rhum, the Rhum joint venture supplied natural gas and BP has interests in and operates two elds the North Sea Rhum eld and certain associated liquids to the UK.
On 16 November 2010, production from the Azerbaijan Shah Deniz eld and has interests in a gas marketing entity Rhum was suspended in response to relevant EU sanctions.
Rhum remains and a gas pipeline entity which, respectively, market and transport Shah shut-in.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, BP recorded gross Deniz gas both entities and related assets are located outside Iran, in which revenues of 7,329.49 related to Rhum due to changes in prices related to Naftiran Intertrade Co. Limited and NICO SPV Limited collectively, NICO hydrocarbon stock.
These changes in prices were non-cash transactions that or Iranian Oil Company UK Limited IOC UK have interests.
Production were recorded as revenue in accordance with BP accounting policy.
BP had was suspended at the North Sea Rhum eld in which IOC UK has a 50% no net profits related to Rhum during the year ended 31 December 2012, interest in November 2010 and Rhum remains shut-in.
The Shah Deniz eld, recording an overall loss.
BP currently intends to continue to hold its its gas marketing entity and the gas pipeline entity in which NICO has a ownership stake in the Rhum joint venture, and to meet any applicable 10% or less non-operating interest continue in operation.
The Shah Deniz obligations in respect of safety and maintenance of the facilities related to joint venture and its gas marketing and pipeline entities were excluded from the Rhum eld.
the main operative provisions of the EU Regulations as well as from the BP distributed dividends in the form of new ordinary shares in accordance application of the new US sanctions, and fall within the exception for certain natural gas projects under Section 603 of ITRA.
with BPs Scrip Dividend Programme to Naftiran Intertrade Co. Limited in March, June and September 2012 as part of BPs dividend distributions to BP has no operations in Iran and it is BPs policy that it shall not purchase or shareholders during those periods.
Such scrip dividends were distributed in ship crude oil or other products of Iranian origin.
Participants in non-BP accordance with applicable UK law in effect during such periods.
BP controlled or operated joint ventures may purchase Iranian-origin crude oil or subsequently declared and distributed a dividend to shareholders in other components as feedstock for facilities located outside the EU and US.
December 2012, but a scrip alternative was not distributed to Naftiran It is also BPs policy that BP shall not sell crude oil or other products into Iran, Intertrade Co. Limited in accordance with relevant EU sanctions under EU except that small quantities of lubricants are sold to non-Iranian third parties Regulation 945 2012 which took effect in October 2012.
As at 1 March for resale or use in Iran.
Further, until January 2010, BP held an equity 2013, Naftiran Intertrade Co. Limited is the registered owner of ordinary interest in an Iranian joint venture that blended and marketed automotive shares in BP amounting to less than 0.15% of BPs total outstanding ordinary lubricants for sale to domestic consumers in Iran.
BP sold its equity interest shares.
BP intends to withhold or to procure the withholding of distribution but continues to sell small quantities of automotive lubricants and of any form of dividends to Naftiran Intertrade Co. Limited until such time components and licence relevant trade marks to the current owner.
as applicable laws or regulations permit such distribution.
Transactions with Iranian shipping companies have been terminated.
BP currently holds a non-controlling interest in a non-BP operated joint venture which sells crude oil to an Indian entity in which NICO holds a minority, non-controlling stake.
In 2012, BP distributed certain scrip dividends to BP shareholder Naftiran Intertrade Co. Limited in accordance with applicable UK Business review: BP in more depth 45 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 incident investigations and from industry practice of sharing experience.
Safety Three objectives guide our efforts: t To promote deep capability and a safe operating culture across all levels We operate in a high-hazard industry so safety is our of BP.
We continue working to embed safety t To embed OMS as the way BP operates.
and operational risk management into the heart of t To support self-verication and independent assurance that confirms our conduct of operating.
A dedicated function We established a new safety and operational risk S&OR function in early t Our operating management system OMS serves as our group-wide 2011.
Our S&OR function supports the business line in delivering safe, framework designed to drive a rigorous and systematic approach to reliable and compliant operations across the groups operated business.
safety, risk management and operational integrity across the group.
S&OR: t We continue to make progress on all of the remaining recommendations from the Bly Report.
As of December 2012, the t Sets clear requirements.
total number of completed recommendations was 14 out of 26. t Maintains an independent view of operating risk.
t We are focusing on developing deeper, longer-term relationships t Provides deep technical support to the operating businesses.
with selected contractors, identifying potentially higher-risk contracts t Intervenes and escalates as appropriate to cause corrective action.
across the group and bringing a higher level of oversight to these contracts as a priority.
In 2012 S&OR was led by Mark Bly, the executive vice president who led BPs investigation into the Deepwater Horizon incident.
Mark Bly stepped Loss of primary containment down from his position as executive vice president of safety and number of incidents operational risk in February 2013 and has been replaced by Bob Fryar who will continue to report directly to the group chief executive.
800 S&OR consists of a central team and teams deployed in BPs businesses.
All teams report to the group chief executive via the head of S&OR, 600 independently of the business line.
S&OR includes some of BPs top engineers and safety specialists, several of whom have experience in 400 other industries where major hazards have to be managed, including the military, nuclear energy and space exploration.
200 The central team serves as the custodian of group-wide safety and operational risk requirements, and runs S&OR audit and capability programmes, with the support of a substantial dedicated audit team.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Our deployed S&OR staff work with our operating businesses ranging Recordable injury frequency from upstream oil and gas development and production to reneries, per 200,000 hours worked petrochemicals plants and retail networks.
They help the businesses apply Workforce our standards to their operations and help provide assurance to the group a American Petroleum Institute US benchmark as to the management of operational risks, business by business.
a International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmark Operating businesses remain accountable for delivering safe, reliable and 1.0 compliant operations with S&OR setting requirements and acting to provide independent advice, scrutiny, challenge and, if needed, intervention.
0.8 Governance BP reviews risks at all levels of the organization, with our S&OR function 0.6 providing an expert view on safety and operational risks that is independent of the business that remains responsible for management of 0.4 the risks.
While operating line managers are responsible for identifying and managing risks, we place strong emphasis on checks and balances, 0.2 including both enhanced self-verication by individual BP operations such as drilling rigs or reneries and independent assurance by the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 S&OR function.
Employees 0.35 0.23 0.25 0.31 0.26 Each business segment or function has a safety and operational risk Contractors 0.50 0.43 0.84 0.41 0.43 committee, chaired by the segment or function head, to manage safety and risk in their respective areas of the business.
The group operations a API and OGP 2012 data reports not available until May.
risk committee GORC reviews company safety and risk management across the company.
In 2012 BP reported four workforce fatalities: a road-related fatality in Scotland: a fall from a roof in India: an incident at a compressor station in The boards safety, ethics and environment assurance committee the US: and a tractor accident in our biofuels business in Brazil.
SEEAC receives updates from the group chief executive and the head of Additionally, the armed attack on our joint venture gas facility in Algeria in S&OR on management plans associated with the highest priority risks as January 2013 resulted in four BP fatalities.
We deeply regret the loss of part of its update on the GORCs work.
GORC also provides the SEEAC these lives.
with updates on BPs process and personal safety performance, and the monitoring of major incidents and near misses across the group.
Where Managing safety appropriate other senior managers attend to provide briengs on safety, We are delivering a programme of action to continuously improve safety environmental and operational integrity in their areas of responsibility.
The and risk management across BP.
Our approach to safety and risk SEEAC also receives information from external sources, including Carl management is informed by our experience, including what we have Sandlin, who was appointed in 2012 to provide oversight and assurance learned from the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010 and the Texas City including regarding the implementation of the recommendations of BPs renery explosion in 2005, operations audits, annual risk reviews, other investigation into the Deepwater Horizon accident.
See Corporate governance report on pages 101-126 for further information on the activities of the boards committees, including the SEEAC and the Gulf of Mexico committee.
46 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth In May 2012 Duane Wilsons five-year board appointment as independent both crisis management and oil-spill preparedness and response, which expert to provide an independent objective assessment of BPs progress are replacing the interim practices put in place following the Deepwater in implementing the recommendations of the BP US Reneries Horizon accident.
All BP businesses and functions are required to achieve Independent Safety Review Panel came to an end.
Following the end of conformance within a dened time period.
his term, the SEEAC appointed him as process safety expert and assigned See Environmental and social responsibility on pages 51-54 for him to work, in a global capacity, with the Downstream business.
information on BPs approach to oil spill preparedness and response.
Operating management system Safer drilling BPs OMS is a group-wide framework designed to provide a basis for BP has worked to centralize and standardize our approach to drilling managing our operations in a systematic way.
OMS integrates BP practices and oversight of projects with the establishment of the global requirements on health, safety, security, environment, social responsibility wells organization GWO and the global projects organization in 2011.
The and operational reliability, as well as related issues such as maintenance, GWO now employs more than 2,000 people, bringing functional wells contractor management and organizational learning, into a common expertise into a single organization with common global standards.
Our OMS evolves over time, for example by GWO works with our safety and operational risk function with a view to amending mandatory practices to reect implementation experience as continuously reducing risk in drilling and so reduce the likelihood of an oil well as lessons learned from incident investigations, audits and risk spill or incident occurring.
BP has already established requirements and assessments.
standards for Gulf of Mexico drilling that exceed regulatory requirements.
Integrated into the OMS are guiding principles and requirements for safe, Following the settlement with the US government of all federal criminal reliable and compliant operations.
Each operating unit has an OMS which claims related to the Gulf of Mexico, BP has agreed to appoint a process describes how it addresses specic operating risks and delivers its safety monitor in the US for a term of four years.
The monitor will review, operating activities.
Business needs, applicable legal and regulatory evaluate and provide recommendations for the improvement of BPs requirements and group-wide BP requirements are translated into process safety and risk management procedures concerning deepwater practical plans to reduce risk and deliver strong, sustainable performance.
drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
Additionally, an independent third-party Conformance and continuous improvement auditor will review and report on BPs implementation of key terms of the Our OMS was introduced in 2008.
The application of a comprehensive agreement, including procedures and systems related to safety and management system such as OMS across a global company is an environmental management, operational oversight, and oil spill response ongoing process.
OMS defines the process for BP operations to apply and training and drills.
For more information on this agreement with the US conform to required standards and practices on an ongoing basis government, see Legal proceedings on pages 162-169. including dened time periods for doing so as well as to continuously Building capability improve their operational performance.
All of our operations, with the BP is committed to establishing a global wells institute and has invested in exception of those recently acquired, are now applying our OMS to govern state-of-the art simulator facilities to support practical learning and testing.
their BP operations and are working to achieve full conformance to The institute aims to build and sustain enhanced capability within the standards and practices required by OMS through the performance GWO by developing the skills to deliver safe and compliant wells that will improvement cycle.
Recently acquired businesses are working to align with our broader people processes, such as performance transition to OMS.
See page 99 for information about joint ventures.
development plans and performance appraisals, contractor strategy and OMS is a dynamic system.
Periodically, after an initial assessment as part ways of working.
of the annual performance improvement cycle, our operations are required Competence testing is an important part of assuring safe operations.
In a to conduct a fresh assessment to develop an updated prioritized plan in competence testing programme in the GWO, 532 well site leaders have respect of any existing gaps or new gaps that may have been identied.
been assessed on a risk-prioritized basis.
Remediation activities have These actions form an integral part of each operations multi-year and been carried out where areas for improvement have been identied.
Where appropriate, actions are aggregated to provide common solutions.
S&OR reviews how these assessments are We are also engaged in targeted recruitment to support critical work undertaken.
One of these has been the cementing of wells a key issue as identied in the investigation reports into the Deepwater Horizon accident.
Capability development For this reason, we are enhancing oversight of cementing services.
We BP strives to equip its staff with the skills needed to apply OMS and its have recruited additional expertise into the company and now have associated processes and practices.
For example, in addition to a 21 cementing specialists.
dedicated programme to assess the technical well control competencies of BPs well site leaders, we have been working to identify safety-critical The Bly Report implementing the recommendations roles and the associated technical and leadership competencies to do The Bly Report concluded that no single cause was responsible for the them.
We are also strengthening capability and competence by accident.
The investigation instead found that a complex, inter-linked consolidating and standardizing our competence management series of mechanical failures, human judgements, engineering design, programme.
Our approach is being tested in a number of job categories, operational implementation and team interfaces, involving several such as offshore installation managers and well site leaders.
companies including BP, contributed to the accident.
We continue to provide training programmes for our operations personnel The Bly Report made 26 recommendations that were specic to drilling.
This training includes our operations academy programmes We accepted all of the recommendations and are working to implement for senior management, delivered in partnership with the Massachusetts them across our drilling operations worldwide.
The recommendations Institute of Technology, US: specialized operational and technical include measures to improve contractor management, as well as to management programmes, for example, courses in engineering and strengthen design and assurance on blowout preventers BOPs, well project management at the University of Manchester, UK: and process control, pressure-testing for well integrity, emergency systems, cement safety and management training for our front-line leaders, delivered under testing, rig audit, verication and personnel competence.
Since 2008 we have been running Implementing the 26 recommendations across the group requires detailed operating essentials modules and in 2012 over 6,000 modules were work and many activities from creating new practices and guidance, delivered to managers, supervisors and technicians across the BP group.
training and testing identied staff, changing requirements and Both non-executive and senior management team members addressed expectations of our contractors, and establishing verication processes.
operations academy participants during sessions in 2012.
We also offer a substantial programme of eLearning modules.
A project of this scale takes time.
Implementing these recommendations across all BP-operated drilling activity across the world is an enormous Crisis management undertaking involving a programme team of around 85 people, consisting Crisis management planning is essential to respond effectively to of a central team based in Houston and others embedded in BPs emergencies and to avoid a potentially severe disruption in our business businesses.
We are working to assure that all actions are delivered to a and operations.
In 2012 we issued new group-wide OMS practices for Business review: BP in more depth 47 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 high standard across all of our well operations, and are independently the rig conforms to BP practices and industry standards, that it has the veried by our S&OR audit or internal audit function.
necessary technical specication, and that the actions required for start-up are completed.
All rigs are also subject to subsequent periodic We have estimated and communicated delivery timelines for each of the rig audits.
recommendations and will continue to provide periodic updates of our progress.
These timelines are based on existing facts and circumstances BP is in the process of issuing the above guides and implementing the and can shift due to complexity, resource availability and evolving above practices across all our operating regions.
Practices are implemented regulatory requirements.
through training workshops and accompanying training materials, gap assessments, and requirements for reaching conformance.
We continue to At the end of 2012, 14 of the Bly Report recommendations had been progress the remaining recommendations of the Bly Report.
We continue to make progress on all of the remaining recommendations largely in line with our planned schedule.
Progress is External investigations tracked quarterly by executive management.
We also regularly update There have also been a number of external investigations into the Gulf of investors.
com  for the full report and periodic Mexico oil spill, including those of the National Commission on the BP updates on progress.
Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling oilspillcommission.
gov and the joint investigation team of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Independent advice Management, Regulation and Enforcement and the US Coast Guard In June 2012 the BP board appointed Carl Sandlin to provide SEEAC with boemre.
Additionally, the US National an objective and independent assessment of BPs global progress in Academy of Engineering undertook an independent study.
All of these implementing the 26 Bly Report recommendations and on process safety.
reports were consistent with the general conclusion that the accident Carl Sandlin will also on occasion be asked to provide his views to the resulted from multiple causes and was due to the actions of multiple board on other matters related to, but not specically within the scope of parties.
We are committed to understanding the causes, impacts and the Bly Report recommendations, for example, his views on organizational implications of the Deepwater Horizon incident and to learn and act on effectiveness or culture of the GWO and process safety observations in lessons from it.
As part of this commitment, BP is reviewing the the upstream.
He has direct access to the chair of SEEAC and will report recommendations from government and industry reports.
to the committee in person at least twice a year.
See BP Sustainability Review 2012 for more information on Carl Sandlins activities.
Sharing lessons learned We are committed to sharing what we have learned globally to advance Delivering enhanced processes and practices the capabilities and practices that enhance safety in our company and the Eight interim actions were issued to our operating regions immediately deepwater industry and help to prevent an accident of this magnitude following the publication of the Bly Report.
Seven of those actions have from happening again.
We have conducted more than 200 briengs in now been incorporated into engineering technical practices or other nearly 30 countries over the past two years to share lessons learned.
documents being developed as part of the work towards completing the Other examples of our collaboration include: 26 recommendations.
The final interim action is scheduled to be incorporated into a new practice in early 2013. t Participating in the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers Well Expert Committee that is working to prevent well control incidents During 2012, as we continued to work towards delivering the by improving well engineering design and well operations management.
recommendations, we developed or refreshed key operating practices t Providing equipment and expertise developed during the Deepwater and engineering standards on: Horizon accident response to the Marine Well Containment Company t Cementing or zonal isolation: we have issued new mandatory to help industry meet regulatory requirements for drilling in the Gulf of requirements and nine associated guides covering cementing activities.
As of December 2012, 711 technical professionals in BP have now t Participating in the Subsea Well Response Project to enhance the undergone training on the revised practices.
We have also strengthened industrys global well capping capabilities resulting in a collaboration the technical approval process for some cementing operations.
with Oil Spill Response Limited to build four well cap systems and two Systematic input into the well design workow now requires both the dispersant application equipment packages due to be positioned in regional and global BP specialist to agree on the basis of design for Europe, Africa, Asia and South America in 2013. complex zonal isolation activities.
t Filing patent applications in the US and elsewhere to cover about 30 t Integrating process safety concepts into management of wells: we technical innovations related to well capping and containment work, have produced a technical practice specifying minimum requirements with the aim of ensuring the capping and containment technology we for well barrier management managing the movement of uids and have developed will be open for access and further development for gas within the well throughout the life cycle of the well.
the benefit of the industry.
Implementation of this practice has commenced with two-day t Implementing a technology licence agreement with Petrleos workshops training 624 people as of December 2012.
Mexicanos PEMEX that will share BP capping system technology and t Well casing design: we have updated our design manual for well casing know-how with the national oil company of Mexico.
and inner tubing to include new requirements for pressure tests and t Participating in the 19 sub-committees of the IPIECA International Oil revised technical practices.
A one-day training workshop on this revised and Gas Producers Association, Joint Industry Project on Oil Spill practice has been developed for BP professionals and 247 people have Response, focused on developing recommendations for effective and been trained as of December 2012. t-for-purpose oil spill response preparedness and capability.
t BOP stacks: we have issued a revised technical practice on well control, t Establishing the Center for Offshore Safety with the American dening and documenting our requirements for subsea BOP Petroleum Institute with a mission to promote the highest level of congurations.
We require two sets of blind shear rams and a casing safety in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
shear ram for all subsea BOPs used on dynamically positioned rigs in deep water.
We also require that Safety in the Downstream business third-party verication is carried out on the testing and maintenance of In our hydrocarbon facilities across the Downstream business we focus subsea BOPs in accordance with industry recommended practice, and on the safe storage, handling and processing of hydrocarbons via that remotely operated vehicles capable of operating these BOPs are systematic management of associated operating risks.
In seeking to available in an emergency.
manage these risks, BP takes measures to: t Rig intake and start-up operating procedure: we have continued the rig t Prevent loss of hydrocarbon containment through well-designed, audit process enhanced in 2011.
We have also conducted detailed hazard and operability reviews for key uid handling systems on all maintained and operated equipment.
offshore rigs in the BP eet.
All drilling rigs joining the BP eet are t Reduce the likelihood of any hydrocarbon releases and the possibility of subject to an independent S&OR audit and readiness to operate is ignition that may occur by controlling ignition sources.
veried with a detailed go no-go process assured by S&OR.
This t Provide safe locations, emergency procedures and other mitigation includes a checklist that, among other things, assists in assessing that measures in the event of a release, re or explosion.
48 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Senior downstream leaders, led by the segment chief executive, Lessons learned from incidents and near-misses are important for participate in the segment operations risk committee, which provides identifying ways to improve safety practices.
In 2012 we issued a number leadership and expectations on the management of operations.
Quarterly, of briengs and alerts on lessons learned from incidents and near-misses this committee also reviews safety and operations performance and we require our sites to provide assurance that similar risks have been indicators.
All of our businesses use a set of common leading and lagging assessed and appropriate corrective actions undertaken.
safety metrics that are intended to monitor performance and help identify New process safety expert for our Downstream business opportunities for improvement.
Duane Wilsons five-year board appointment as independent expert to BP continues to implement the BP US Reneries Independent Safety provide an independent objective assessment of BPs progress in Review Panel recommendations as part of ongoing process safety implementing the recommendations of the BP US Reneries Independent management.
Safety Review Panel came to an end in May 2012.
Recognizing the extensive experience he has acquired during his years as independent Risk management expert and following the end of his term, SEEAC appointed him as Hazard identication and risk management are key components of our process safety expert and assigned him to work, in a global capacity, with OMS and are fundamental to the success of safely managing the Downstream business.
Over the past two years, our Downstream business has implemented a risk management programme under OMS that focuses on In this new role, he is providing an independent perspective on the identication, assessment, response and action to manage safety and progress that BPs fuels and petrochemicals businesses are making operational risk combined with monitoring and review of identied and globally toward becoming industry leaders in process safety performance.
Specically, Duane Wilson is focusing and reporting to the SEEAC on three topics: Management plans for the Downstream businesses high-consequence, low-probability risks are reviewed annually by the segment chief executive t Downstreams prioritization of the agenda to become an industry leader and the chief operating ofcers.
t Downstreams progress in embedding BPs OMS including process Some examples of specic risk reduction work across our rening and safety risk assessment processes, process safety culture and petrochemicals portfolio in 2012 include: interpretation of trends in process safety performance.
t Installation of additional safety instrumentation and equipment to t The effectiveness of the Downstream safety and operational risk reduce the likelihood of identied risks occurring.
t Continuing work to improve the safety of site occupied buildings.
We Duane Wilson continues to have frequent and direct access not only to have a major programme under way to install safety shelters for the board, but also to BP employees from the most senior executives personnel: to move people further away from  down to the shop oor.
He visits facilities, conducts interviews and equipment: and to reduce the number of vehicles onsite.
For example, reviews relevant documents, such as audit and incident reports, to full during 2012 a building-hardening programme was completed at our his duties.
Additionally, he is an ex ofcio member of the Downstream Toledo renery, and at our Bulwer renery we constructed new ofces segment operations risk committee and regularly attends its meetings to move employees away from higher risk processing areas.
The with the senior executives of the business.
His contract is for a two-year business also continues to train and drill personnel to respond to term ending in May 2014, and may be renewed for up to an additional two emergencies.
t Work to reduce explosion and toxic risks through inventory reduction by, for example, reducing ethylene and propylene refrigerants in our Safety performance petrochemical plants and by eliminating or reducing the use of ammonia Workforce fatalities across the rening portfolio.
In 2012 BP reported four workforce fatalities: a road related fatality in Where similar risks have been identied across multiple facilities, new Scotland: a fall from a roof in India: an incident at a compressor station in guidance for gasoline storage, tanker loading and buildings were the US: and a tractor accident in our biofuels business in Brazil.
developed and issued to drive consistent risk mitigation efforts across the Additionally, the armed attack on our joint venture gas facility in Algeria in segment.
January 2013 resulted in four BP fatalities.
We deeply regret the loss of these lives.
Capability development Each facility has experienced and trained operational staff and a system Oil spills and other loss of primary containment for assessing their competency.
We are developing a consistent We monitor the integrity of our assets used to produce, process and competency framework that standardizes this assessment process for transport oil and other hydrocarbons with the aim of preventing the loss of safety-critical roles supported by and in conjunction with S&OR direction material from its primary containment.
Accordingly, we track loss of primary containment as a metric, which To support the competency development plan for operations personnel, includes unplanned or uncontrolled releases from a tank, vessel, pipe, rail our reneries and chemical manufacturing plants are in the process of car or equipment used for containment or transfer of materials within our installing high delity process simulators for selected process units.
operational boundary, excluding non-hazardous releases such as water.
These will be used to train operators via simulations to respond to The US government and third parties have announced various estimates low-probability, high-consequence scenarios, similar to methods used of the ow rate or total volume of oil spilled from the Deepwater Horizon with airline pilots.
The multi-district litigation pending in New Orleans will address Measurement, evaluation and corrective action the amount of oil spilled.
See Financial statements Note 36 on page 235 The oversight of the management of hydrocarbons across our operations for information about the volume used to determine the estimated is supported by our S&OR function.
S&OR personnel work with our liabilities.
operating businesses to provide independent perspectives on the quality of our operations and the management of risks.
A quarterly assurance process enables S&OR to provide an ongoing independent view of OMS conformance by the sites.
Each site is assessed on its OMS self-verication processes, the strength of existing risk mitigations and progress on risk reduction plans.
Periodic S&OR audits against OMS requirements also provide valuable insights and result in actions to close any identied findings.
Business review: BP in more depth 49 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Loss of primary containment and oil spills excluding Deepwater Initially our work has focused on contracts in our upstream supply chain Horizon oil spill in respect of 2010 volume involving potentially high-consequence activities.
In 2012 we built on this work to identify contracts involving potentially higher-consequence 2012 2011 2010 activities across the group and bringing a consistent level of oversight to Loss of primary containment number of all a the management of these contracts as a priority.
In our global projects incidents 292 361 418 organization, we have put in place global agreements with seven suppliers Loss of primary containment number of oil for plant inspection and surveillance services, covering the work b spills 204 228 261 previously undertaken by more than 60 suppliers.
Number of oil spills to land and water 102 102 142 The review also highlighted the importance of clearly dened Volume of oil spilled thousand litres 801 556 1,719 responsibilities and decision rights at every stage of each process Volume of oil unrecovered thousand litres 320 281 758 including training, monitoring and auditing as well as rigorous a Does not include either small or non-hazardous releases.
qualication of suppliers, including their demonstration of the competency b Number of spills greater than or equal to one barrel 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
In 2012 we focused, including through our OMS, on Process safety practical assistance to operational line management to build competence in this area.
We monitor the number of process safety events occurring across our operations using the American Petroleum Institute API RP-754 standard.
In 2013, we plan to continue our work on the management of contractors Introduced in 2010 it sets out process safety indicators, organized into through our OMS framework and actions related to additional supplier different tiers and is used as the basis for our internal and external process audits, competence testing and other programmes.
API tier 1 process safety events are the loss of primary Our partners in joint ventures containment from a process of greatest consequence causing harm to a We seek to work with companies that share our commitment to ethical, member of the workforce or costly damage to equipment, or exceeding safe and sustainable working practices.
However, we do not control how dened quantities.
API tier 2 process safety events are loss of primary our co-venturers and their employees approach these issues.
containment, from a process, of lesser consequence.
Forty-three tier 1 process safety events were reported in BP in 2012, compared with 74 in Typically, our level of inuence or control over a joint venture is linked to 2011.
This is our first year reporting API tier 2 safety events externally.
the size of our financial stake compared with other participants.
In some joint ventures we act as the operator.
Our OMS provides that where we Personal safety are the operator, and where legal and contractual arrangements allow, BP reports publicly on its personal safety performance according to OMS applies to the operations of that joint venture.
In other cases, one of our joint venture partners may be the designated Personal safety performance operator, or the operator may be an incorporated joint venture company 2012 2011 2010 owned by BP and other companies.
In those cases our OMS does not Recordable injury frequency group apply as the management system to be used by the operator, but is incidents per 200,000 hours worked 0.35 0.36 0.61 available to our businesses as a reference point for their engagement with a Days away from work case frequency group operators and co-venturers.
Where BP does not have overall control of a incidents per 200,000 hours worked 0.076 0.090 0.193 joint venture, we will do everything we reasonably can to make sure joint a Incidents that resulted in an injury where a person is unable to work for a day shift or more.
Working with partners and contractors BP, like our industry peers, rarely works in isolation we need to work with suppliers, contractors and partners to carry out our operations.
In 2012, 55% of the 402 million hours worked by BP were carried out by contractors.
Our ability to be a safe and responsible operator depends in part on the conduct of our suppliers, contractors and partners.
We address this in a variety of ways, from training and dialogue to requiring adherence to operational standards through legally binding agreements.
Our OMS is a group-wide framework designed to provide businessspecic requirements and practices, including for working with contractors and our operations are obliged to plan and execute actions to reach conformance with OMS on contractor management.
OMS is also designed to drive continuous improvement, including how BP businesses continue to work towards full conformance with the elements relevant to working with contractors.
In 2012 we prepared guidance for conformance with OMS, where it relates to working with contractors, in order to support the accountable line organizations.
We intend to eld test this in 2013.
We expect our contractors to comply with legal requirements and to operate consistently with the principles of our code of conduct when they work on our behalf.
The objective is to provide assurance that goods, equipment and services provided by third parties meet contractual and BP requirements and that there is a consistent, shared understanding of responsibilities.
Following the Deepwater Horizon incident, we undertook an in-depth review of contractor management practices, with the aim of documenting and learning from the latest proven practices throughout BP and across a number of sectors and industries that use contractors in potentially high-consequence activities.
The review confirmed to us the value of building long-term relationships with a limited number of contractors, supported by shared structures and common processes.
50 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Ramsar and World Heritage sites, as well as areas proposed for Environmental and social international protected status.
responsibility Where screening indicates that a proposed BP project could affect an international protected area a high-level risk assessment is carried out, including identication of potential avoidance and mitigation measures.
We strive to minimize our impact on the Our safety and operational risk function provides an independent review environment and communities, to respect human of the risk assessment, and before any physical activity begins, permission is sought from senior management.
In 2012 no new projects rights and to conserve cultural heritage.
sought permission for entry into an international protected area.
t Our operating management system OMS lays out the standards Our operations are expected to work to continually reduce their impacts and processes required for environmentally and socially responsible and risks.
All our major operating sites, with the exception of recently operations.
acquired operations, are required to be certied to the environmental t Our operations are expected to work to continually reduce their management system standard ISO 14001, and publish an externally impacts and risks.
All our major operating sites, with the exception of veried environmental statement.
In 2012 our Gelsenkirchen renery in recently acquired operations, are required to be certied to the Germany was not recertied due to conicts in scheduling a verication environmental management system standard ISO 14001. audit.
They completed a verication audit in late 2012 and were recertied in January 2013. t We seek to manage operational greenhouse gas GHG emissions through our OMS, which requires businesses to incorporate energy More information about our approach to environmental and social use considerations in their business plans and to assess, prioritize issues can be found in BP Sustainability Review 2012 and at and implement technologies and systems to improve energy usage.
Oil spill preparedness and response Greenhouse gas emissions Mte CO equivalent 2 We have used lessons from our Deepwater Horizon oil spill response to further enhance our internal approaches to preparedness and response 63.5 0.8 1.5 planning.
In July 2012 new group requirements for oil spill preparedness 62.5 61.8 and response planning, and for crisis management were issued, with 0.4 timeframes established for required conformance by the businesses.
To 61.5 0.7 facilitate understanding of these new requirements, workshops have been 0.2 60.5 conducted with more than 600 staff from 45 countries, ranging from 59.8 senior leaders to on-site oil spill response teams.
59.5 Understanding and mitigating the risks 58.5 Identifying and assessing the potential oil spill risks and potential impacts helps us to develop appropriate oil spill response and crisis management 57.5 plans.
These plans are backed up by the tools and people required to mount an effective response to an incident and mitigate potential impacts.
We further developed our oil spill modelling systems and capabilities in 2012.
Improving existing modelling tools, conducting staff training in our regions and enhancing the environmental and socio-economic data required in the models have all helped to better define different oil spill scenarios and to plan for responding to them.
Modelling for two deepwater drilling operations, Salamat and North Uist, indicated that Managing our environmental and social risks and international protected areas could potentially be affected from the worst impacts case oil spill scenario.
As a result, additional mitigations were put in place At a group level, we review our management of material issues such as to try to reduce this risk.
GHG emissions, water, sensitive and protected areas and human rights Understanding the environmental and socio-economic sensitivities can annually.
We seek to identify emerging risks and assess methods to help inform response planning.
Across our operating regions, we are reduce them across the company.
developing enhanced, high resolution sensitivity maps aided by the use of Our OMS helps our operations around the world to assess and manage technologies such as remote sensing satellites.
In 2012 we used high their environmental and social impacts.
This includes conducting an resolution satellite imagery to enhance sensitivity maps of coastlines in annual OMS assessment to identify risks and impacts, and then putting in Brazil and Africa.
place action plans to manage them.
The use of oil spill dispersants as a response tool for major oil spills in the The principles and standards of OMS are supported by our environmental deep-sea environment continued to be a focus area in 2012.
We continue and social practices.
These set out how our major projects identify and to gain a greater understanding of dispersants and their use through manage environmental and social impacts.
They also apply to projects that scientific research programmes, conducted individually: for example, involve new access, projects that could affect an international protected characterizing the oil-degrading bacterial communities in our operating area and some BP acquisition negotiations.
regions and collectively, through joint industry programmes such as IPIECA-OGP and the API.
In the early planning stages, these projects complete a screening process.
Results are used to identify the most significant environmental and social Collaboration on lessons learned impacts associated with the project, with a requirement to identify We seek to work collaboratively with government regulators in planning mitigation measures and implement these in project design, construction for oil spill response, sharing lessons learned and our technical and operations.
From April 2010 to the end of 2012, 88 projects had approaches, with the aim of improving any potential future response.
In completed the screening process, and used outputs of the process to the past two years we conducted workshops on issues such as implement measures to reduce impact.
dispersant use and in-situ burn response to regulators in Australia, Brazil, China, Egypt, Indonesia, Norway and the UK.
During screening, we identify any international protected areas that could be affected by the project, using the UNEP World Conservation We are advancing our capability to respond to potential incidents and are Monitoring Centres World Database on Protected Areas.
Our international working with our industry to further enhance access to equipment and protected areas classication includes areas designated as protected by technologies around the world.
BPs global deepwater well capping and the International Union for the Conservation of Nature categories I-IV, tooling package is stored in Houston and can be deployed in a matter of days to anywhere in the world in the event of a deepwater well blowout.
Business review: BP in more depth 51 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 2011 direct GHG Acquisitions Divestments Methodology changes Operational changes Real sustainable reductions 2012 direct GHG The equipment is designed to operate in water depths of up to Climate change adaptation 10,000 feet.
It includes a remotely operated vehicles intervention system, We are taking steps to prepare for the potential physical impacts of a subsea dispersant injection system and subsea debris removal climate change on our existing and future operations.
We are working equipment and a deepwater well cap.
closely with Imperial College in the UK to develop specialized climate models that help us better understand and predict possible impacts See Safety on pages 46-50 for further information on BPs approach to oil resulting from the changing climate.
spill prevention and for performance data on loss of primary containment.
Projects implementing our environmental and social practices are required Gulf of Mexico our long-term commitments to assess the potential impacts to the project from the changing climate See Gulf of Mexico oil spill on pages 59-62 for further information on BPs and manage any identied significant potential impacts.
Where climate response to the incident and environmental and economic restoration change impacts are identied as a risk for a project, our engineers seek to efforts.
address them in the project design like any other physical and ecological hazard.
We periodically review and adjust existing design criteria and Climate change engineering technology practices.
For example, a regional climate model Climate change represents a significant challenge for society and the was used in 2012 to inform decisions on the depth of cover required for energy industry, including BP.
In response to the challenges and river crossings for the South Caucasus Pipeline and to review any risks opportunities, BP is continuing to take a number of practical steps, associated with landslides.
including investing in lower-carbon energy products such as biofuels and We regularly update and improve our climate impact modelling tools and wind, and ventures focused on sustainable energy solutions.
We seek to make them available to both new projects and existing operations.
An manage our own GHG emissions through our OMS, by requiring our internal guide, available to both existing operations and projects, has been operations to incorporate energy use considerations in their business in place since 2010.
It sets out guidance on how to assess potential risks plans and to assess, prioritize and implement technologies and systems and impacts from a changing climate to enable mitigation steps to be to improve energy usage.
incorporated into project planning, design and operations.
As part of our OMS and project screening process, we consider and Water identify risks and potential impacts of a changing climate on our facilities and operations.
BP recognizes the importance of managing water effectively and efficiently in areas of water stress or scarcity, the need to minimize water Greenhouse gas emissions quality impacts from our discharges, and the need to protect water a Our direct GHG emissions were 59.8 million tonnes Mte in 2012, resources at our operations.
compared with 61.8Mte in 2011, a decrease of 2.0Mte versus 2011.
The net effect of acquisitions and divestments is a decrease of 0.7Mte, We are continuing to pilot and develop standardized tools to more deeply primarily the result of the sale of upstream assets as part of our understand the nature of the risks and opportunities associated with divestment programme.
Operational changes led to a decrease of 0.7Mte, water management at a strategic and local level.
This includes an principally due to temporary reductions in activity at some of our upstream assessment of water scarcity, the impact of changing efuent discharge sites and one of our major US reneries and lower mileage by our standards, and the long-term social and environmental pressures on water shipping vessels.
Improvements made by our businesses to calculate resources within the local area.
We also commissioned Harvard University their emissions more accurately resulted in a net decrease of 0.4Mte.
We in the US to conduct research in 2012 on the allocation and use of water in achieved 0.2Mte of sustainable emissions reductions in 2012.
Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq and Oman.
This will be followed a through in 2013 and 2014 with more detailed research in three or four of We report GHG emissions on a COequivalent basis, including CO and methane.
This 2 2 represents all consolidated entities and BPs share of equity-accounted entities except TNK-BP.
This will equip BP with peer-reviewed science as a basis for planning water needs for oil and gas developments in the Middle East.
Over the long term it is likely that the carbon intensity of our upstream operations will continue to trend upwards as we move further into Unconventional gas and hydraulic fracturing technically challenging and potentially more energy-intensive areas.
The Natural gas resources, including unconventional gas, have an increasingly carbon intensity will likely remain relatively at or even decrease in certain important role in meeting the worlds growing energy needs.
New rening operations because of improved energy efficiency even with the technologies are making it possible to extract unconventional gas trend towards processing heavier crudes.
resources safely, responsibly and economically.
BP has unconventional gas operations in the US, Algeria, Indonesia and Oman.
Greenhouse gas regulation In the future, we expect that additional regulation of GHG emissions Hydraulic fracturing is the process of pumping water, mixed with a small aimed at addressing climate change will have an increasing impact on our proportion of sand and chemicals, underground at a high enough pressure businesses, operating costs and strategic planning, but may also offer to split and keep open the rock and release natural gas that would opportunities for the development of lower-carbon technologies and otherwise not be accessible.
Some stakeholders have expressed businesses.
concerns about the potential environmental and community impacts of this process.
To help address potential future regulation, we factor a carbon cost into our investment appraisals and engineering designs for new projects BP recognizes these concerns and seeks to apply responsible well design, where appropriate.
We do this in order to assess, and protect the value of, construction and operation to mitigate the risk that natural gas and our new investments under future scenarios in which the cost of carbon hydraulic fracturing uids enter underground aquifers, including drinking emissions is higher than it is today.
We require larger projects, and those water sources.
We are trialling a number of water-saving innovations to for which emissions costs would be a material part of the project, to apply minimize the amount of fresh water used in our drilling and hydraulic a standard carbon cost to the projected GHG emissions over the life of the fracturing operations.
The standard cost is based on our estimate of the carbon price Water and sand constitute on average 99.5% of the injection uid.
This is that might realistically be expected in particular parts of the world.
In mixed with chemicals to create the fracturing uid that is pumped industrialized countries, this standard cost assumption is currently $40 per underground at high pressure to fracture the rock with the sand propping tonne of CO equivalent.
We use this cost as a basis for assessing the 2 the fractures open.
The chemicals used in this process help to reduce economic value of the investment and as one consideration in optimizing friction and control bacterial growth in the well.
Some of them are the way the project is engineered with respect to emissions.
classied as hazardous materials, as are the constituents of many See Regulation of the groups business Greenhouse gas regulation on everyday products when in concentrated form.
Each chemical used in the pages 96-97. fracturing process is listed in the material safety data sheets at each site, which detail safe dosage limits.
We submit data on chemicals used at our hydraulically fractured wells in the US at fracfocus.
At our operating sites, we aim to minimize air pollutant and GHG emissions by, for example, seeking to use natural gas or electricity instead 52 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth of more carbon-intensive conventional fuel sources to power operations at Other environmental expenditure sites where these energy sources are readily available and affordable.
We Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, abatement introduced green completion technology in our North American gas or elimination of air, water and solid waste pollution is often not incurred operations in 2001 to recover natural gas for sale and minimize the as a separately identiable transaction.
Instead, it forms part of a larger amount of natural gas either ared or vented from our wells.
transaction that includes, for example, normal maintenance expenditure.
The gures for environmental operating and capital expenditure in the To help manage potential impacts on the community, such as increased table are therefore estimates, based on the denitions and guidelines of trafc, noise, dust and light, we seek to design and locate our equipment the American Petroleum Institute.
and manage our work patterns in ways that reduce impact to relevant communities.
We also listen to suggestions or complaints from nearby Environmental operating expenditure of $742 million in 2012 was at a local communities and try to address their concerns.
More information about our approach to unconventional gas and hydraulic Capital expenditure in 2012 was higher than in 2011 principally due to the fracturing may be found at bp.
high level of construction activity at our Whiting renery in relation to new units as part of the Whiting renery modernization project which is due to Canadas oil sands be completed in the second half of 2013.
Similar levels of operating and Canadas oil sands are believed to hold one of the worlds largest supplies capital expenditures are expected in the foreseeable future.
of oil, third in size to the resources in Saudi Arabia and Venezuela.
In addition to operating and capital expenditures, we also establish BP is involved in three oil sands properties, all of which are located in the provisions for future environmental remediation.
Expenditure against such province of Alberta.
Development of the Sunrise project, our joint venture provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is not included in operated by Husky Energy, is under way, with production from Phase 1 environmental operating expenditure reported for such periods.
The other two proposed projects Pike, which Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is will be operated by Devon Energy, and Terre fide Grace, which will be probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
BP-operated are still in the early stages of development.
Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action Our decision to invest in Canadian oil sands projects takes into or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
consideration GHG emissions, impacts on land, water use and local The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation and communities, and commercial viability.
In the case of joint ventures in abatement programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
They often which we are not the operator, we monitor the progress of these projects depend on the extent of contamination, and the associated impact and and the mitigation of risk.
In the Terre fide Grace project where we are the timing of the corrective actions required, technological feasibility and BPs operator, we are responsible for managing these potential impacts and the share of liability.
Though the costs of future programmes could be mitigation of risk.
significant and may be material to the results of operations in the period in More information on BPs investments in Canadas oil sands can be found which they are recognized, it is not expected that such costs will be at bp.
material to the groups overall results of operations or financial position.
Additions to our environmental remediation provision increased in 2012 Environmental expenditure largely due to scope reassessments of the remediation plans of a number $ million of our sites in the US and Canada.
The charge for environmental 2012 2011 2010 remediation provisions in 2012 included $19 million in respect of Environmental expenditure relating provisions for new sites 2011 $12 million and 2010 $54 million.
to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oiland gasSpill response 118 671 13,628 producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual Additions to environmental decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production facility remediation provision 801 1,167 929 a provision is established that represents the discounted value of the Other environmental expenditure expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
Operating expenditure 742 704 716 The level of increase in the decommissioning provision varies with the Capital expenditure 1,207 819 911 number of new elds coming onstream in a particular year and the Clean-ups 46 53 55 outcome of the periodic reviews.
The significant increases in 2010 and Additions to environmental 2011 were driven by changes in estimation and detailed reviews of remediation provision 549 510 361 expected future costs.
The majority of these increases related to our sites Additions to decommissioning in Trinidad, the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea.
provision 3,756 4,596 1,800 The Gulf of Mexico was impacted by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcements BOEMRE Notice to Environmental expenditure relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill Lessees NTL 2010-G05, issued in October 2010, which requires that idle BP continues to incur significant costs related to the 2010 Gulf of Mexico infrastructure on active leases is decommissioned earlier than previously oil spill.
The spill response cost incurred during 2012 is $118 million 2011 was required and establishes guidelines to determine the future utility of $671 million, and $345 million 2011 $336 million remains as a provision idle infrastructure on active leases.
In 2012 additions to the decommissioning provision were less than in The environmental remediation provision includes amounts for BPs 2011, although still significant, and were again driven by detailed reviews commitment to fund the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative, estimated of expected future costs.
The majority of the additions related to our sites natural resource damage NRD assessment costs and early NRD in the North Sea, Alaska, the Gulf of Mexico and Angola.
restoration projects under the $1-billion framework agreement.
The provision for NRD assessment costs was increased during the year.
We undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews take Further amounts for spill response costs were provided during the year, account of revised cost assumptions, changes in decommissioning primarily to reect increased costs for patrolling and maintenance and requirements and any technological developments.
The majority of the active clean-up of the Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are shorelines was completed in 2011. usually established on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 See Financial statements Note 2 on page 194, Note 36 on page 235 and Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Note 43 on page 253 for further information relating to the Gulf of Mexico Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions appear oil spill.
in Financial statements Note 36 on page 235. Business review: BP in more depth 53 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Respecting human rights Enterprise and community development In 2012 we developed a human rights policy in consultation with businesses We run a range of programmes to build the skills of businesses in places and functions, and we expect to launch it in 2013.
The policy builds on where we work and to develop the local supply chain.
The programmes commitments in our code of conduct regarding communities, workforces can benefit local companies by empowering them to reach the standards and the supply chain and we expect to report annually on its implementation.
needed to supply BP and other organizations.
For example, we provide See page 56 for further information about our code of conduct.
training and share standards in areas such as health and safety.
At the same time BP benets from the local sourcing of goods and services.
We understand our responsibility to respect the human rights of the communities and workforces with whom we interact.
BP supports the BPs social investments, the contributions we make to social and Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which lays out the rights to which community programmes in locations where we operate, support all human beings are entitled.
Our policy sets out our commitment to development activities that aim for a meaningful and sustainable impact.
respect all internationally recognized human rights, including those set out We look for social investment opportunities that are relevant to local in the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour needs, aligned with BPs business, and offer partnerships with local Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
The programmes we support include building business skills and developing enterprise, supporting education and other We are a signatory to two voluntary agreements with implications for community needs and sharing technical expertise with local and national specic aspects of human rights: the UN Global Compact, which includes host governments.
In a few locations we also support small community principles on protecting internationally proclaimed human rights, and the infrastructure programmes that help people improve their access to basic Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, which define good resources such as drinking water and public health services.
We work practice for security operations in the extractive industry.
with local authorities, community groups and specialists to deliver these In 2011 we used external consultants to carry out a comparison between community programmes.
our current policies and practices and the expectations in the Guiding Our direct spending on community programmes in 2012 was $90.6 million, Principles.
In 2012 we used the findings to create an action plan designed which included contributions of $31.7 million in the US, $16.3 million in the to achieve closer alignment with the Guiding Principles over a number of UK including $6.9 million to UK charities, of which $4.8 million for arts and years.
Planned actions include: culture, and $2.1 million for education, $2.3 million in other European t Developing and implementing human rights training prioritizing specic countries and $40.3 million in the rest of the world, including disaster relief.
These reported amounts exclude social bonuses paid by BP to governments as part of licence acquisition costs and that have been t Developing guidance on integrating human rights into impact capitalized as intangible assets on the group balance sheet.
In such cases assessments and community grievance processes.
the group has no direct oversight of the expenditure.
Contributions relating t Embedding human rights requirements into our procurement and to economic recovery following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill are also supply chain management processes.
excluded, see page 60 for details of these contributions.
A steering committee has provided oversight for the development of the planned actions.
We are participating in the work of oil and gas industry organization IPIECAs human rights taskforce, and are contributing our experience to develop practical guidance for the industry on integrating human rights into impact assessments and community grievance processes.
More information about our approach to human rights may be found at bp.
Revenue transparency and business ethics As a member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, we work with governments, non-governmental organizations and international agencies to improve transparency on revenue disclosures.
In several countries that are in the process of becoming EITI compliant, BP is supporting the process.
For example, BP is an active member of the Trinidad & Tobago EITI steering committee.
In countries that have achieved EITI compliance, including Azerbaijan and Norway, BP submits an annual report on payments to their governments.
We have taken part in consultations in relation to new or proposed revenue transparency reporting requirements in the US and Europe for companies in the extractive industries.
BP will comply with the relevant laws and regulations in force.
We are working to respond effectively to the standards arising from the UK Bribery Act as well as other anti-corruption legislation such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain regulations promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the US.
Bribery and corruption are serious risks in the oil and gas industry.
Our code of conduct requires that our employees or others working on behalf of BP do not engage in bribery or corruption in any form in both the public and private sectors.
We operate a group-wide anti-bribery and corruption standard, which applies to all BP employees and contractors.
The standard requires annual bribery and corruption risk assessments: due diligence on all parties with whom BP does business: appropriate anti-bribery and corruption clauses in contracts: and the training of personnel in anti-bribery and corruption measures.
54 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth People policies Employees The group people committee, chaired by the group chief executive, has overall responsibility for key policy decisions relating to employees.
In To be sustainable as a business, BP needs 2012 subjects discussed included longer-term people priorities: quarterly employees who have the right skills for their roles reviews of progress in our diversity and inclusion programme: the rolling out and embedding of our revised performance review procedures: and and who understand the values and expected the continuing development of our learning programmes.
behaviour that guide everything we do as a group.
We have a good understanding of our future demand for people and where they will come from.
Building our employees capability is a priority, t Our values and code of conduct define the expected qualities and as is rewarding them in a way that aligns with our goals.
We focus on actions of all our people.
ensuring the safety of our employees, engaging with them, and increasing t Succession planning is a board-level priority, and we hire and retain the the diversity of our workforce so that it reects the societies in which best people and systematically manage and develop their potential.
t We aim for a workforce that is engaged and that is representative of Attracting and retaining our people the societies where we operate.
The increasing demand for energy products and the complexity of our projects means that attracting and retaining skilled and talented people is a BP group headcount by region including service station staff vital to the delivery of our strategy and plans.
7 6 1 In support of this, the group chief executive and each member of the 1.
US and Canada 23,800 executive team hold regular review meetings to ensure that appropriate 4 3.
Asia 16,400 plans to build capability are in place and that a rigorous and consistent 4.
South and Central America 5,800 succession process is followed for all group leadership roles.
Sub-Saharan Africa 2,300 To supplement our existing internal capability, we also target experienced 7.
Russia 300 3 and skilled professionals in the external market and are continuing to 2 increase our intake of graduates to create a strong internal talent pipeline for the future.
We have tailored training programmes for graduates and post-graduates to develop BPs future leaders.
Our graduate development programme currently has around 1,600 a Number of employees at 31 December US Non-US Total participants.
To address increasing demands for skilled people outside the 2012 US and UK, more than 40% of 2013s graduate recruitment is targeted at Upstream 9,500 14,500 24,000 universities in growing markets.
We invest in universities worldwide to b Downstream 11,900 39,400 51,300 further develop the quality of our potential recruits.
Other businesses and corporate 1,900 8,400 10,300 We conduct external assessments for all new hires into BP at senior levels Gulf Coast Restoration Organization 100 100 and for internal promotions to senior level and group leader level roles.
23,400 62,300 85,700 These assessments help ensure rigour and objectivity in our hiring and 2011 talent processes.
They give an in-depth analysis of leadership behaviour, intellectual capacity and the required experience and skills for the role Upstream 8,900 13,300 22,200 b in question.
Downstream 12,000 39,000 51,000 Other businesses and corporate 1,900 8,200 10,100 Building enduring capability We provide development opportunities for all our employees, including Gulf Coast Restoration Organization 100 100 external and on-the-job training, international assignments, mentoring, 22,900 60,500 83,400 team development days, workshops, seminars and online learning.
We 2010 encourage all employees to take at least five training days a year.
Upstream 7,900 13,200 21,100 b We continue to work to embed appropriate leadership behaviours Downstream 12,400 39,900 52,300 throughout our organization.
By 2012 our group-wide suite of Other businesses and corporate 1,700 4,500 6,200 management development programmes, managing essentials, had been Gulf Coast Restoration Organization 100 100 attended by employees from 74 countries, in four regions and in 10 different languages.
22,100 57,600 79,700 a We provide world-class education opportunities for our people, partnering Reported to the nearest 100. b Includes 14,700 2011 14,600 and 2010 15,200 service station staff, all of whom are non-US.
with 19 academies and institutes that deliver technical learning and development.
We had approximately 85,700 employees at 31 December 2012, compared with approximately 83,400 at the same time in 2011.
During Meeting the expectations of our people 2012 our headcount has increased by about 3%.
This is a result of a We have reviewed our reward strategy, including how the group focused effort to re-shape the business and strengthen capability.
incentivizes business performance, with the aim of encouraging excellence in safety, compliance and operational risk management.
In Our values annual performance reviews all staff are required to set priorities for Our values of safety, respect, excellence, courage and one team align themselves in these three areas.
explicitly with BPs code of conduct and translate into the responsible We encourage employee share ownership.
For example, through our actions necessary for the work we do every day.
Our values represent ShareMatch plan run in around 50 countries, we match BP shares the qualities and actions we wish to see in BP, they guide the way we do purchased by our employees.
We have also consolidated our equity plans business and the decisions we make.
into one single company-wide plan, and extended this to more junior We work with our employees to raise their awareness of our values and members of staff.
The plan is linked to the companys performance, with to help them embed the values in all activities.
In 2012 we worked on the same measure for everyone.
embedding BPs values into many of our group-wide systems and We aim to treat employees affected by divestments, mergers, processes, including our recruitment, promotion and development acquisitions and joint ventures fairly and with respect, through open and assessments.
com values for more information.
When divestments do occur, BP seeks the same or comparable pay and benets for employees transferring to other companies.
Business review: BP in more depth 55 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Diversity and inclusion The BP code of conduct We are a global company and aim for a workforce that is representative of The BP code of conduct sets the standard that all BP employees are the societies in which we operate.
For our employees to be properly required to work to.
It is based on our values and it claries the ethics and motivated and to perform to their full potential, and for the business to compliance expectations for everyone who works at BP.
thrive, our people need to be treated with respect and dignity, and without The code defines what BP expects of its people in key areas such as discrimination.
safety, workplace behaviour, bribery and corruption and financial integrity.
Through living our values we create an inclusive working environment The code is based on four foundations: what we do, what we stand for, where everyone can make a difference and give their best.
Our work on what we value and speaking up.
diversity and inclusion is overseen by the group people committee who Employees, contractors or other third parties who have questions or reviews performance on a quarterly basis.
The committee agrees strategic direction and group standards which are then implemented concerns that laws, regulations or the code of conduct may be breached, can get help through OpenTalk, a helpline that is operated by an through business-specic diversity and inclusion plans.
In 2012 we launched a framework to set out our ambition and drive further progress independent company.
The number of cases raised through OpenTalk in 2012 was 1,295, compared with 796 in 2011.
In the US, former district across the group.
It includes statements of wide-ranging improvements we hope to achieve by 2016. court Judge Stanley Sporkin acts as an ombudsperson.
Employees and contractors can contact him condentially to report any suspected breach By 2020, more than half our operations are expected to be in non-OECD of compliance, ethics or the code of conduct, including safety concerns.
countries and we see this as an opportunity to develop a new generation We take steps to identify and correct areas of non-compliance and take of experts and skilled employees.
At the end of 2012, 17% of our group disciplinary action where appropriate.
In 2012, 424 dismissals were leaders were female and 22% came from countries other than the UK and reported by BPs businesses for non-adherence to the code of conduct or the US.
When we started tracking the composition of our group unethical behaviour compared with 529 in 2011.
This excludes dismissals leadership in 2000, these percentages were 9% and 14% respectively.
of staff employed at our retail service station sites, for incidents such as We supported the UK  Lord Davies review in thefts of small amounts of money.
A new reporting process to capture 2011, which made recommendations on increasing gender diversity on information on dismissals is presently being put in place for 2013. the boards of listed companies.
Following the settlement with the US government of all federal criminal We are also incorporating detailed diversity and inclusion analysis into talent reviews, with processes to identify actions where any issues claims related to the Gulf of Mexico, BP has agreed to appoint an ethics monitor in the US for a term of four years to review and provide are found.
We continue to increase the number of local leaders and employees in our operations so that they reect the communities in which recommendations for the improvement of BPs code of conduct and its implementation and enforcement.
we operate and this is monitored at a local, business or national level.
BP continues to apply a policy that the group will not participate directly in We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, party political activity or make any political contributions, whether in cash promotion, training and reward for all employees, including those with or in kind.
We review employees rights to political activity in each country disabilities.
Where existing employees become disabled, our policy is to where we operate.
For example, in the US, BP facilitates staff provide continuing employment and training wherever practicable.
participation in the political process by providing staff support to ensure Employee engagement BP employee political action committee contributions are publicly Executive team members hold regular town-hall style meetings and disclosed and comply with the law.
webcasts to communicate with our employees around the world.
Team meetings and one-to-one meetings are complemented by formal processes through works councils in parts of Europe.
These communications, along with training programmes, are designed to contribute to employee development and motivation by raising awareness of financial, economic, ethical, social and environmental factors affecting our performance.
The group seeks to maintain constructive relationships with labour unions.
We conduct an annual survey of our employees with more than 55,000 employees in around 70 countries for 2012 to monitor employee engagement and identify areas where we can improve this.
The 2012 results show levels of engagement are up across all levels and business areas.
Business leadership teams review the results of the survey and agree actions to address the identied issues.
Safety scores remain strong although there is more work for us to do in continuing to embed our OMS as the way BP operates so people fully understand what it means for them.
We also measure how engaged our employees are with our strategic priorities of safety, trust and value.
The group priorities engagement measure is derived from 12 questions about employee perceptions of BP as a company and how it is managed in terms of leadership and standards.
Aggregate results for these questions showed a 4% improvement on 2011 to 71%.
Alongside engagement, a new indicator of employee and workplace satisfaction was introduced in 2012, replacing the previous employee satisfaction index ESI.
This new measure is more comprehensive than the previous index and looks at management behaviour, job satisfaction, development and reward.
The aggregate score for employee and workplace satisfaction in 2012 was 71%.
For comparison, the ESI, based on a narrower set of measures, rose by 4% to 66%.
56 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth How we manage technology Technology We define technology in BP as the practical application of science to manage risks, capture business value and inform strategy development.
BP develops and deploys technology to nd and This includes the research, development, demonstration and acquisition of produce more hydrocarbons, improve conversion new technical capabilities and support for the deployment of BPs know-how.
efficiency and build new lower-carbon businesses.
Our investments are focused on safe operations and areas of competitive Technology investment advantage: access to resources, process efficiency, product formulation and lower-carbon opportunities.
Activity Point of Technology In 2012 we invested $674 million in R&D 2011 $636 million.
See competition focus Financial statements Note 13 on page 210. t Subsurface understanding The group technology function provides input to BPs strategy, oversees t Standardized engineering Resource our major technology programmes, supports technology development Access solutions extraction and deployment across the company, builds science capability and t Unconventional conducts long-term research.
hydrocarbons The technology advisory council, comprised of eminent business and academic technology leaders, provides the board and executive management with an independent view of BPs capabilities judged t Chemical process against the highest industrial and scientific standards.
Conversion technology efficiency t Upgrading reneries BP has more than 2,000 scientists and technologists across the group, with seven major technology centres in the US, the UK and Germany.
We also access external expertise through various forms of partnership and collaboration, from joint research agreements to venturing.
We have a strategic approach to university relationships across our portfolio for the t Lubricants Consumption Formulation purposes of research, recruitment, policy insights and education.
t Advanced fuels Long-term research programmes International Centre for Advanced Materials ICAM In 2012 BP announced the establishment of ICAM, a $100-million Feedstocks 10-year research partnership to fund research aimed at advancing the Lower and fundamental understanding and use of advanced materials from t Biofuels carbon conversion self-healing coatings to membranes, across a variety of energy and technologies industrial applications.
The University of Manchester will be the hub for a network of world-class academic institutions, with the University of Cambridge, Imperial College London and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign already participating.
2012 highlights: Energy Sustainability Challenge ESC t We spent $674 million on research and development R&D in 2012, supporting business priorities across our portfolio.
BP is partnering with leading research universities to establish trusted peer-reviewed data on the relationships between natural resource usage t We successfully progressed a suite of technologies aimed at and energy.
The ESC is a multi-disciplinary research programme, aimed at improving safety and operational risk management.
Highlights include: building a better understanding of natural resource constraints on energy demonstration of our real-time blowout preventer BOP monitoring production and consumption including land, water and mineral tool offshore Brazil: digital radiography to assess the integrity of resources.
subsea systems in the North Sea: and deployment of Permasense corrosion probes to monitor the wall thickness of equipment in Initial findings of the ESC suggest that energy-related natural resource reneries in real time.
constraints can be managed, but doing so will not be easy, and will require t We announced plans to deploy LoSal enhanced oil recovery wise policy decisions and technology choices.
The next phase of the technology at our Clair Ridge development in the UK North Sea, which research will focus on a number of specic natural resource challenges for we believe will lead to signicantly increased amounts of recoverable our businesses and operations across the world.
oil see Salt reduction promises healthy returns on page 17.
More information on the ESC can be found at t We awarded first contracts for Project 20K, a multi-year initiative to bp.
develop next-generation systems and tools to unlock high pressure oil The Energy Biosciences Institute EBI and gas resources in deep water.
The EBI is BPs largest external R&D collaboration, with up to t We began construction of a new High-Performance Computing HPC $500-million funding over 10 years for a multi-disciplinary research effort centre in Houston, designed to ensure BP remains at the forefront of with the University of California Berkeley, the Lawrence Berkeley National subsurface imaging technology.
Laboratory, and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
Its goal is t We licensed our latest-generation puried terephthalic acid PTA and to perform groundbreaking research aimed at the development of paraxylene PX technologies to non-afliated third-parties for the first next-generation biofuels, as well as other bioscience applications to the time, and sold our third licence for Veba combi-cracking VCC energy sector.
Now in its fifth year, the EBI is generating multiple technology.
innovations, particularly in the eld of cellulosic conversion.
t In lubricants, we launched new Castrol products: EDGE with Titanium Massachusetts Institute of Technology Energy Initiative MITEI to deliver enhanced protection under extreme conditions: and In 2012 BP renewed its commitment to the MITEI through an Magnatec Hybrid to tackle the challenges of engines working with agreement to provide another $25 million for continued energy research hybrid and stop start powertrains.
over the next five years, bringing the companys total programme t We are investing $100 million over 10 years to set up the International funding to $50 million.
The MITEI conducts multi-disciplinary research Centre for Advanced Materials ICAM to fund research into aimed at tackling complex energy challenges such as increasing energy fundamental understanding and use of advanced materials, from supply, improving efficiency, and addressing environmental impacts of self-healing coatings to membranes, across the energy industry.
Business review: BP in more depth 57 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 energy consumption.
To date, the initiative has sponsored hundreds t In collaboration with GE and Oceaneering, we completed BPs first of energy projects ranging from unconventional sources of full-eld trial of shallow water subsea digital radiography technology hydrocarbons to renewables and nuclear fusion.
DRT in the Madoes eld in the UK North Sea.
This technology employs imaging technology similar to that used in the medical eld, Energy Technologies Institute ETI adapted for use in marine environments for improved inspection of BP is a founding member of the UKs Energy Technologies Institute a subsea ow lines up to 2,000 feet below the surface.
BP also public private partnership established in 2008 to accelerate lower-carbon collaborated with JME, Oceaneering and GE in developing an technology development.
By the end of 2012 the ETI had commissioned alternative technology for use in the inspection of subsea ow lines more than $281 million of work covering 41 projects across a wide range located in deep water.
Downstream Upstream Our Downstream technology focus is both operational and customer Our upstream technologies support BPs business strategy by: facing: t Focusing on safety and operational risks.
t Developing and applying technology to monitor operational integrity.
t Helping to obtain new access.
t Improving process efficiency in our reneries and petrochemicals t Increasing recovery and reserves.
t Optimizing conversion of unconventional feedstocks, including renewables, to liquid transport fuels and chemicals.
Our strengths in exploration, deep water, giant elds and gas are t Creating high-performance, energy-efficient, cleaner fuels and underpinned by dedicated agship technology programmes.
undertake proprietary scientific research to develop industry-leading technologies such as imaging, enhanced recovery and real-time data Petrochemicals capabilities.
See Upstream technology agships on page 18. t Our proprietary processing technologies and operational experience In 2012: continue to reduce the manufacturing costs and environmental impact of our plants, helping to maintain competitive advantage in PTA, PX and t We began construction of a new HPC centre in Houston, our laboratory acetic acid.
For the first time, we have licensed our latest generation for processing and analysing seismic images.
BPs investment in the aromatics technology to non-afliated third parties: rstly PTA new 110,000 square foot 10,209 square metres facility will help drive technology to JBF Petrochemicals, and secondly PX technology to seismic imaging beyond the methods we know today, extending BPs Reliance through our exclusive licensor, CB&I Lummus, both in India.
The facility is due for completion in mid-2013.
Lubricants t We completed a number of product developments and launches.
t The BP Well Advisor suite of technologies aims to bring wells online Castrol EDGE with Titanium is proven to reduce metal to metal contact more efficiently and enhance safety through providing real-time and delivering enhanced protection under extreme conditions and information for decision making.
A major programme is under way to Castrol Magnatec Hybrid tackles the challenges of engines working develop and deploy BP Well Advisor tools, from casing running, already with hybrid and stop start powertrains.
We also launched an oil installed in Azerbaijan, to BOP monitoring in Brazil, cementing in the co-engineered with Ford during the development of its newly-released North Sea and pressure testing in the Gulf of Mexico.
This oil delivers a benefit of around 1% to fuel systems provide consoles for the rig crew and onshore engineers to economy.
In the commercial transport sector, we launched an updated monitor operations in real-time, during well construction and over the Castrol CRB product, which offers enhanced protection and durability life of the well.
BP has selected Kongsberg as vendor for the consoles, for truck engines.
The launch of our new Performance Biolubes product which will provide a standard interface for drilling teams across the range added bio-based lubricants for use in metalworking operations, world.
In 2012 we continued industry-first eld trials of our BOP improving productivity, safety and environmental impact.
diagnostic tool on the Ensco DS4 rig offshore Brazil.
This technology has been shared with the industry and with the US Bureau of Safety Fuels t We demonstrated our biofuels proprietary technology and collaboration and Environmental Enforcement.
by providing three specially formulated advanced biofuels containing t In February 2012 we announced the launch of Project 20K, a multi-year bio-derived components including cellulosic ethanol, diesel from sugar initiative to develop next-generation systems and tools to help recover and biobutanol.
These, blended with BP Ultimate, fuelled some of the high-pressure, high-temperature deepwater oil and gas resources.
We vehicles in the ofcial London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games intend to develop technologies over the next decade in four key areas: eet.
We also continue to work proactively with governments and well intervention and containment: well design and completions: drilling regulatory bodies in all countries where we operate to develop practical rigs, riser and BOP equipment: and subsea production systems.
In and effective solutions to meet local and regional biofuel mandates.
November 2012 we awarded the first contracts for Project 20K to KBR and FMC Technologies.
KBR will develop programme execution and Conversion technologies management plans, including capital cost and schedule estimates, risk t Veba Combi Cracking VCC upgrades heavy oil or coal into high-value assessments and technical designs.
FMC Technologies will participate transport fuel by adding hydrogen and a proprietary ingredient that in a technology development agreement in which it will work jointly prevents unwanted carbon deposits fouling equipment, making the with BP to design and develop 20,000 pounds per square inch rated process more reliable.
BP has a collaboration agreement on VCC with subsea production equipment, including a subsea production tree and a KBR, who are promoting, marketing and licensing the technology to subsea high integrity pressure protection system.
In 2012, the third VCC licence with the largest capacity was secured to implement the technology at the Nizhnekamsk renery t BP announced a plan to deploy its LoSal enhanced oil recovery EOR in Russia.
technology at the Clair Ridge development in the UK North Sea.
This will be the first large-scale offshore deployment of this BP enhanced oil t BP has developed a proprietary Fischer-Tropsch FT technology and a recovery application.
The $7.6-billion development at Clair Ridge route to upgrade products from the FT process to transport fuel and includes around $120 million for the desalination facilities to create low chemical feedstocks such as diesel, kerosene and naphtha.
BP estimates that this breakthrough technology part of proved this technology under commercial conditions, we and our BPs suite of Designer Water EOR technologies will increase collaborator Davy Process Technology are actively pursuing production by around 42 million barrels of additional oil, compared with commercialization including licensing the technology to third parties.
BP has also confirmed that Mad Technology licensing combined with recent successful demonstrations Dog phase 2 project in the Gulf of Mexico will be the next offshore of improvements to both process and catalyst are underpinning the deployment of LoSal.
longer-term competitiveness of our technology.
58 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Rening technologies Gulf of Mexico oil spill t We have made improvements in integrity management by deploying Permasense wireless corrosion sensors in selected areas of all We remain committed to meeting our BP-operated reneries worldwide to monitor and enable better decisions about corrosion management.
We developed this technology responsibilities to the US federal, state and local in collaboration with Imperial College, London.
governments and communities of the Gulf Coast Biofuels following the Deepwater Horizon accident.
t In addition to our biofuel production business in Brazil, we continue to invest in and operate a world-class biofuels research facility in San Key events included: Diego, California, and a demonstration plant in Jennings, Louisiana, to further develop our next-generation cellulosic biofuel technology and t Continuing the clean-up of the Gulf shoreline under the direction of the license it for commercial use.
Federal On-Scene Coordinator and working to progress the clean-up of t BPs joint venture with DuPont, Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC, is shorelines to the point where removal actions are deemed complete.
working to develop and market the advanced biofuel, biobutanol.
A t Supporting economic recovery by resolving legitimate claims and technology demonstration plant has been constructed in Hull, UK to providing support to two of the regions most important industries accelerate the commercialization of biobutanol technology.
t BP is also working in partnership with DSM to advance the t Reaching settlement agreements to resolve the substantial majority development of a step-change technology for conversion of sugars into of legitimate private economic loss and medical claims final renewable diesel.
approval was granted by the court on 21 December 2012 for the Technology venturing economic loss settlement agreement and on 11 January 2013 for the medical settlement agreement.
Our portfolio of technology venturing investments aims to put us at the t Completing the funding of the $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill forefront of innovation.
Our emerging business and ventures unit brings Trust, which was established to pay individual and business claims, together BPs venturing and carbon markets expertise with carbon final judgments in litigation and litigation settlements, state and local capture and storage capability.
Through this unit, we have invested about response costs and claims, and natural resource damages and related $175 million in 33 investments, spanning the following areas: costs.
t Working in co-operation with state and federal trustees to collect data t Energy efficiency and storage.
needed to assess potential injuries to natural resources resulting from t Carbon management.
the accident and to progress early restoration activities.
t Supporting independent research through the Gulf of Mexico t Emerging oil and gas technologies.
Research Initiative to better understand and mitigate the potential impacts of future oil spills.
Our recent investments include: t Reaching an agreement with the US government in November 2012 t Oxane Materials, a company that is commercializing advanced which was subsequently approved by the court in January 2013 to materials, such as ceramic proppants to improve production and reduce pay $4 billion to resolve all federal criminal claims arising out of the the environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing.
BP also reached a settlement with the SEC t Skyonic, whose SkyMine technology is a novel application of carbon to resolve the SECs Deepwater Horizon-related civil claims against capture principles that can be retrotted onto power plants and other BP.
Following these agreements, BP Exploration & Production Inc. industrial sites that emit high volumes of CO. 2 BPXP received notice from the US Environmental Protection Agency t Heliex Power, whose rotary screw expander technology can recover EPA of a mandatory debarment from contracting with the US federal waste heat from a variety of sources commonly found in industry and government, as well as notice of a temporary suspension, in respect use it to generate electricity.
of certain BP group companies.
See Agreement with the US government on page 61 for further information.
t Liquid Light, a company developing new ways of converting CO into 2 high-performance chemicals and fuels.
t On 25 February 2013, the first phase of a Trial of Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and Fault Allocation commenced in the federal multiMore information on BP and technology can be found at bp.
com district litigation proceeding in New Orleans MDL 2179.
will address issues arising out of the conduct of various parties allegedly relevant to the loss of well control at the Macondo well, the ensuing re and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon on 20 April 2010, the sinking of the vessel on 22 April 2010 and the initiation of the release of oil from the Deepwater Horizon or the Macondo well during those time periods, including whether BP or any other party was grossly negligent.
See page 164 for further information.
We have made significant progress in completing the response to the accident and supporting economic and environmental recovery efforts in affected areas.
Completing the response BP, working under the direction of the US Coast Guards Federal On-Scene Coordinator FOSC, continued to complete the Deepwater Horizon operational response activities in 2012.
Residual clean-up of the Gulf of Mexico shoreline Throughout the year, BP continued to work to progress the clean-up of shorelines to the point where removal actions are deemed complete as established by the Shoreline Clean-up Completion Plan, which was approved by the FOSC in November 2011.
The plan established the clean-up requirements for the range of shoreline types in the area of Business review: BP in more depth 59 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 response and describes the rigorous process for determining that processing and paying claims from settlement class members under the operational removal activity is complete.
economic and property damages agreement.
By the end of 2012, the FOSC had deemed removal actions complete on In November 2012, the court held a fairness hearing with respect to the 4,029 miles 6,484kms of shoreline out of the 4,376 miles 7,043kms settlements and subsequently granted final approval of the economic and that were in the area of response.
Approximately 108 miles were pending property damages agreement on 21 December 2012 and of the medical final monitoring or inspection and a determination that removal actions are benets class action settlement agreement on 11 January 2013. complete.
The remaining 239 miles are in the monitoring and maintenance Under the economic and property damages agreement, there are agreed phase, which will continue until the FOSC determines that operational compensation protocols for the payment of class members economic removal activity is complete.
In addition, many economic and property According to a study by the Operational Science Advisory Team OSAT, damages settlement class members will also receive payments based on composed of scientists representing federal agencies and BP, the residual negotiated risk transfer premiums, which are multipliers designed to oil that remains is heavily weathered, contains only a small fraction of the compensate claimants for potential future losses relating to the accident, compounds of concern and is below the EPAs benchmarks for the along with other potential damages.
Under the medical benets class action settlement agreement, payments The US Coast Guard has indicated that if oil is later discovered in a will be made based on a matrix for certain specified physical conditions.
shoreline segment where removal actions have been deemed complete, The agreement also provides for a 21-year Periodic Medical Consultation they will follow long-standing response protocols established under the Program for qualifying class members.
Class members claiming laterlaw and contact whoever it believes is the responsible party or parties.
manifested physical conditions may pursue their claims in the future through a mediation or litigation process, but waive the right to seek Hurricane Isaac punitive damages.
In late August 2012, Hurricane Isaac made landfall on the Gulf Coast, In addition, under the medical benets class action settlement agreement, uncovering residual oil in some areas in Louisiana.
The remaining residual oil had been buried when tropical storms in 2010 and 2011 deposited BP has agreed to provide $105 million to the Gulf Region Health Outreach Program to improve the availability, scope and quality of healthcare in Gulf several feet of sand along some of the Gulf Coast shoreline.
After the material was buried, in many instances, net environmental benefit analysis communities.
The focus will be on strengthening local capacity to deliver primary care, behavioural and mental health services, and environmental had indicated that deep cleaning at these sites could do more harm than good.
But once Isaac removed this sand overburden in some places, medicine.
This healthcare outreach programme is intended to benefit both class members and others in those communities.
BP provided approximately clean-up crews have been able to clean the residual material without the same degree of potential environmental impact.
$20 million in 2012 to launch the assessment and evaluation phase of the health outreach programme across the four Gulf States.
Other shorelines in the area of response were less affected by Hurricane Business economic loss claims received by the DHCSSP to date are being Isaac.
A few areas saw a short-term increase in the number of tar balls in the initial aftermath, but conditions returned to pre-Isaac levels after a few paid at a higher average amount than previously assumed by BP in formulating the original estimate of the cost of the PSC settlement, days once clean-up operations were resumed in these locations.
resulting from an interpretation of the settlement agreement by the claims Response efforts guided by science administrator that BP believes was incorrect.
As more fully described in scientific studies conducted at the direction of the FOSC continued to Legal proceedings on pages 162-169, this matter has been considered by guide response actions and help define what is known scientically about the court and on 5 March 2013, the court afrmed the claims the fate of the oil and the potential impacts to human health, aquatic life, administrators interpretation of the settlement agreement and rejected wildlife and the environment.
This included OSAT studies and net BPs position as it relates to business economic loss claims.
BP strongly environmental benefit analyses conducted in 2010 and 2011. disagrees with the ruling of 5 March 2013 and the current implementation At the request of BP, the FOSC formed another OSAT in 2012 to of the agreement by the claims administrator.
BP intends to pursue all investigate discrete areas of buried oil accumulations tar mats near the available legal options, including rights of appeal, to challenge this ruling.
The team was directed to integrate a number of data sets to Given the inherent uncertainty that exists as BP pursues all available legal evaluate the potential for buried oil in discrete locations across the area of options to challenge the recent ruling, and the higher number of claims response and determine if additional mitigating actions may be taken to received and higher average claims payments than previously assumed by excavate the residual material with minimal environmental impact.
BP, which may or may not continue, management has concluded that no reliable estimate can be made of the cost of any business economic loss Economic recovery claims not yet received or processed by the DHCSSP.
As a consequence, BP continued to support economic recovery efforts in local communities an amount of $0.8 billion previously provided for such claims has been through a variety of actions and programmes in 2012.
A provision will be re-established when a reliable estimate 2012, BP had spent nearly $10 billion on economic recovery, including can be made of the liability.
For further information see Financial claims, advances, settlements and other payments, such as state tourism statements Note 36 on page 235, Note 43 on page 253 and Risk factors grants and funding for state-led seafood testing and marketing.
In on pages 38-44. addition, $1.8 billion has been paid to the seafood compensation fund, BPs current estimate of the total cost of those elements of the PSC which has not yet been paid to final claimants.
settlement that can be estimated reliably, which excludes any future Plaintiffs Steering Committee settlements business economic loss claims not yet received or processed by the In April 2012, BP reached settlements with the Plaintiffs Steering DHCSSP, is $7.7 billion.
If BP is successful in its challenge to the courts Committee PSC to resolve the substantial majority of legitimate economic ruling, the total estimated cost of the settlement agreement will, loss and medical claims stemming from the accident.
In May 2012, the court nevertheless, be signicantly higher than the current estimate of preliminarily approved the settlements.
The PSC acts on behalf of individual $7.7 billion, because business economic loss claims not yet received or and business plaintiffs in the multi-district litigation proceedings pending in processed are not reected in the current estimate and the average New Orleans.
payments per claim determined so far are higher than anticipated.
If BP is not successful in its challenge to the courts ruling, a further significant Typically in class action settlements, claims are not paid until after the increase to the total estimated cost of the settlement will be required.
court has granted final approval to the settlement and all appeals have However, there can be no certainty as to how the dispute will ultimately been exhausted.
Here, BP took the unusual step of agreeing to process be resolved or determined.
To the extent that there are insufficient funds and pay claims under the economic and property damages agreement available in the Trust fund, payments under the PSC settlement will be prior to any such court approval.
Accordingly, a court-supervised made by BP directly, and charged to the income statement.
transitional claims programme took over the processing and payment of economic loss claims from the Gulf Coast Claims Facility on 8 March 2012. significant uncertainties exist in relation to the amount of claims that are to be paid and will become payable through the claims process.
There is On 4 June 2012, the transitional process was closed, and the Deepwater significant uncertainty in relation to the amounts that ultimately will be Horizon Court Supervised Settlement Program DHCSSP began 60 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth paid in relation to current claims, and the number, type and amounts count under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act: and one felony count of payable for claims not yet reported.
In addition, there is further uncertainty obstruction of Congress.
As part of the resolution of federal criminal in relation to interpretations of the claims administrator regarding the claims, BPXP will pay $4 billion, including $1.256 billion in criminal fines, in protocols under the settlement agreement and judicial interpretation of instalments over a period of five years.
Under the terms of the criminal these protocols, and the outcomes of any further litigation including in plea agreement, a total of $2.394 billion will be paid to the National Fish & relation to potential opt-outs from the settlement or otherwise.
The PSC Wildlife Foundation NFWF over a period of five years.
In addition, $350 settlement is uncapped except for economic loss claims related to the million will be paid to the National Academy of Sciences NAS over a Gulf seafood industry.
See Risk factors on pages 41-42, Financial period of five years.
The court also ordered, as previously agreed with the statements Note 2 on page 194, Note 36 on page 235 and Note 43 on US government, that BPXP serve a term of five years probation.
Also on 15 November 2012, BP reached a settlement with the US Claims under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, resolving the SECs Deepwater Horizon-related civil claims against the company under On 4 June 2012, the BP claims programme also began accepting claims under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90.
The programme is open to Sections 10 b and 13 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the associated rules.
BP has agreed to a civil penalty of $525 million, payable claimants that wish to le economic and property damages claims and fall into one of three categories: individuals and businesses that are not class in three instalments over a period of three years, and has consented to the entry of an injunction prohibiting it from violating certain US securities members: individuals and businesses that are class members, but exercise their legal right to opt out of the class settlement: and individuals laws and regulations.
The SECs claims are premised on oil ow rate estimates contained in three reports provided by BP to the SEC during a and businesses that are class members but wish to pursue claims that are expressly reserved to them pursuant to the PSC settlement, to the extent period from 29 April 2010 to 4 May 2010, within the first 14 days after the accident.
The settlement was approved by the US District Court for the such claims may fall within OPA 90.
Eastern District of Louisiana on 10 December 2012, and BP made its first Claims payments payment of $175 million on 11 December 2012.
By the end of 2012, BP had paid a total of $8.2 billion to individual and Under US law, companies convicted of certain criminal acts are subject to business claimants, including payments from the DHCSSP, the Gulf Coast debarment from contracting with the federal government.
The charges to Claims Facility, the BP claims programmes and the court-supervised which BPXP pleaded guilty included one misdemeanour count under the transitional claims programme.
In 2012, $1.9 billion was paid to individuals Clean Water Act which, by operation of law following the courts and businesses through the various programmes.
acceptance of BPXPs plea, triggers a statutory debarment, also referred BP is also responsible for directly managing claims and funding requests to as mandatory debarment, of the BPXP facility where the Clean Water for losses or expenses incurred by states, parishes, counties, federally Act violation occurred.
recognized Indian tribes and other government entities.
These On 1 February 2013, the EPA issued a notice that BPXP was mandatorily government claims primarily cover costs associated with response and debarred at its Houston headquarters.
Mandatory debarment prevents removal activities, increased public services and loss of revenues due BPXP from entering into new contracts or new leases with the US to the accident.
A mandatory debarment does not affect any existing Government entities have received approximately $1.4 billion in payments contracts or leases a company has with the US government and will for claims, advances, and settlements.
remain in place until such time as the debarment is lifted through an Supporting recovery of the tourism and seafood industries agreement with the EPA.
To support tourism in the affected states, BP has committed $179 million On 28 November 2012, the EPA notied BP that it had temporarily by the end of 2013 to Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi for suspended BP p. l. c. BPXP and a number of other BP subsidiaries from regional and national tourism promotion campaigns.
To date, tourism participating in new federal contracts.
As a result of the temporary organizations have received $173 million and are using the BP funds in suspension, the BP entities listed in the notice are ineligible to receive any part to expand their advertising and marketing efforts to reach potential US government contracts either through the award of a new contract, or visitors.
State and regional tourism organizations reported strong visitor the extension of the term of, or renewal of, an expiring contract.
The numbers across the affected states in 2012. suspension does not affect existing contracts the company has with the In addition to resolving legitimate claims made by those in the shing and US government, including those relating to current and ongoing drilling seafood processing industries, by the end of 2012 BP had paid or and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
committed to pay $82 million to Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and With respect to the entities named in the temporary suspension, the Mississippi for state-led seafood testing and marketing programmes.
temporary suspension may be maintained or the EPA may elect to issue a A further $57 million is being given to non-profit groups and government notice of proposed discretionary debarment to some or all of the named entities to promote the tourism and seafood industries as part of the PSC entities.
Like suspension, a discretionary debarment would preclude BP settlement.
entities listed in the notice from receiving new federal fuel contracts, as well as new oil and gas leases, although existing contracts and leases will Although research and monitoring continues, a number of experts continue.
Discretionary debarment typically lasts three to five years, and believe the Gulf of Mexico seafood industry is making a strong recovery.
may be imposed for a longer period, unless it is resolved through an Government testing results have led state and federal ofcials to declare administrative agreement.
that Gulf seafood is safe to consume.
Government landings and abundance data show that Gulf seafood generally is within pre-spill While BPs discussions with the EPA have been taking place in parallel to landings and population trends in most areas in the northern Gulf.
the court proceedings on the criminal plea, the companys work towards According to a September 2012 report from the National Oceanic and reaching an administrative agreement with the EPA is a separate process, Atmospheric Administration NOAA, 2011 commercial seafood landings and it may take some time to resolve issues relating to such an agreement.
in the Gulf reached their highest levels since 1999, although the results BPXPs mandatory debarment applies following sentencing and is not an varied by state and by species.
indication of any change in the status of discussions with the EPA.
The process for resolving both mandatory and discretionary debarment is Agreement with the US government essentially the same as for resolving the temporary suspension.
BP On 15 November 2012, BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP reached continues to work with the EPA in preparing an administrative agreement an agreement with the US government to resolve all federal criminal that will resolve suspension and debarment issues.
claims arising out of the Deepwater Horizon accident, spill, and response.
For further details, see Legal proceedings on pages 162-169.
On 29 January 2013, the US District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana accepted BPXPs pleas and sentenced BPXP in accordance with Environmental restoration the criminal plea agreement.
Under the terms of the criminal plea We continued to support and participate in the Natural Resource agreement, BPXP pleaded guilty to 11 felony counts of Misconduct or Damages Assessment NRDA process and made progress in 2012 in a Neglect of Ships Ofcers relating to the loss of 11 lives: one misdemeanour count under the Clean Water Act: one misdemeanour Business review: BP in more depth 61 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 number of key areas as part of the ongoing effort to assess and address Through a competitive review process, the initiative approved funding in injury to natural resources in the Gulf of Mexico.
August 2012 for 19 grants that will provide approximately $20 million to researchers over the next three years.
Including funding awarded in 2010 Natural resource damages assessment and 2011, the total funding awarded by the end of 2012 was $184 million.
Since May 2010, more than 200 initial and amended work plans have Grant recipients are investigating the fate of oil releases: the ecological been developed to study resources and habitat by state and federal and human health aspects of spills: and the development of new tools and trustees and BP, and by the end of 2012 BP had paid $973 million to technology for future spill response, mitigation and restoration.
support the assessment process, including co-operative and independent studies.
The study data will inform an assessment of injury to the Gulf Financial update Coast natural resources and the development of a restoration plan to The group income statement for 2012 includes a pre-tax charge of mitigate the identied injuries.
Detailed analysis and interpretation $5.0 billion in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
The charge for the continue on the data that have been collected.
year reects the agreement with the US government, adjustments to Scientists are studying a range of species, including marine mammals, provisions and the ongoing costs of the Gulf Coast Restoration birds, sh and plants to understand how wildlife populations may have Organization.
As at 31 December 2012, the total cumulative charge been affected by the accident.
Teams of experts are also studying habitats recognized to date for the accident amounts to $42.2 billion.
such as wetlands and beaches, with the goal of returning these resources The cumulative income statement charge does not include amounts for to their baseline condition the condition they would be in if the obligations that BP considers are not possible, at this time, to measure Deepwater Horizon accident had not occurred.
In addition, experts are reliably.
The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to looking at how recreational uses of natural resources may have been all the obligations relating to the accident are subject to significant affected so that lost opportunities to enjoy those activities can be uncertainty and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent addressed through restoration.
on many factors, as discussed under Contingent liabilities in Note 43 on Early restoration projects page 253, including in relation to any new information or future In 2012, work began on the initial set of early restoration projects identied developments.
These could have a material impact on our consolidated through an agreement BP signed with state and federal trustees in April financial position, results of operations and cash ows.
The trustees also approved two new early restoration projects in associated with the accident could also heighten the impact of the other December 2012, which are designed to improve nesting habitat for birds risks to which the group is exposed, as further described under Risk and loggerhead sea turtles on a number of Gulf Coast beaches.
Under the early restoration framework agreement, BP agreed to fund up For details regarding the impacts and uncertainties relating to the Gulf of to $1 billion in early restoration projects to accelerate efforts to restore Mexico oil spill refer to Financial statements Note 2 on page 194, Note natural resources injured as a result of the Deepwater Horizon accident.
See also Proceedings and The framework requires BP and the trustees to agree on the potential investigations relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill on pages 59-62. projects, funding and the natural resources benets the projects are Trust update expected to provide.
The trustees will then implement the projects.
BP, in agreement with the US government, set up the $20-billion The agreement between BP and the trustees makes it possible for Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust to provide confidence that restoration to begin at an earlier stage of the NRDA process than usual.
funds would be available to satisfy individual and business claims, final Natural Resource Damages NRD restoration projects are typically funded judgments in litigation and litigation settlements, state and local response only after the NRD assessment is complete and a final settlement has costs and claims, and natural resource damages and related costs.
been reached or a final court judgment has been entered.
This process BP contributed a total of $4.9 billion to the Trust in 2012.
The Trust has often takes many years, and restoration is often delayed during that time.
Payments made during 2012 were $2.8 billion for The early restoration framework agreement allows the parties to expedite individual and business claims, medical settlement programme payments, projects to restore, replace or acquire the equivalent of injured natural NRD assessment and early restoration, state and local government resources in the Gulf soon after an injury is identied, reducing the time claims, DHCSSP expenses and other resolved items.
These payments needed to achieve restoration of those resources.
were made from the Trust and qualied settlement funds QSFs BP committed to fund the estimated $60 million cost of the eight initial established for paying the costs of the settlement agreements with the early restoration projects that were approved by the trustees in April 2012 PSC and funded by the Trust.
An additional $1.8 billion was paid from the following public review and comment.
The eight projects will collectively Trust into the $2.3-billion seafood compensation fund, extinguishing BPs restore and enhance wildlife, habitats, the ecosystem services provided liability, which had not yet been paid to claimants.
As at 31 December by those habitats, and provide additional access for shing, boating and 2012, the cumulative amount paid from the Trust and QSFs since related recreational uses.
Funding will come from the $20-billion Trust.
inception was $9.5 billion, and the remaining cash balance was $10.5 billion, including $1.8 billion remaining in the seafood compensation fund.
Following a 30-day public comment period, the trustees approved on 21 December 2012 the two new projects to improve habitat for nesting As at 31 December 2012, the cumulative charges for provisions to be birds and sea turtles that will cost an additional estimated $9 million.
The paid from the Trust and the associated reimbursement asset recognized trustees and BP are working to identify additional projects for public amounted to $17.8 billion.
The increased charges in 2012 reect higher review and comment.
More information about the status of early provision estimates for claims paid prior to establishing the DHCSSP, restoration can be found on the NOAA website.
claims and administration costs of the DHCSSP and NRD assessment costs.
A further $2.2 billion could be provided in subsequent periods for Sharing the information items covered by the Trust, with no net impact on the income statement.
In 2012 BP produced a second progress report on the NRDA effort and The amount of cumulative charges for provisions described above will made presentations at scientific conferences to describe studies that are increase as more information becomes available, the interpretation of the under way.
The trustees have already made some of the data sets from protocols established in the economic and property damages settlement these studies available online while others are still being nalized.
BP agreement is claried and the claims process matures, enabling BP to seeks to share data and information collected from the co-operative estimate reliably the cost of claims which currently cannot be estimated NRDA studies with stakeholders and members of the public once these reliably and are therefore not provided for.
See Plaintiffs Steering have been approved for release by the trustees.
Committee settlements on page 60 and Financial statements Note 36 Supporting the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative on page 235 for further information.
BP has committed $500 million over 10 years to fund independent Legal proceedings and investigations scientific research through the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative.
The On 25 February 2013, the first phase of a Trial of Liability, Limitation, goal of the research initiative is to improve societys ability to understand, Exoneration and Fault Allocation commenced in the federal multi-district respond to and mitigate the potential impacts of oil spills to marine and litigation proceeding in New Orleans.
For further information on this and coastal ecosystems.
other legal proceedings, see pages 162-169.
62 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Upstream Our strategy In Upstream, our highest priority is to ensure safe, reliable and compliant operations worldwide.
Our strategy is to invest to grow long-term value In 2012 we continued to actively manage and by continuing to build a portfolio of material, enduring positions in the simplify our portfolio, strengthening our incumbent worlds key hydrocarbon basins.
Our strategy is enabled by: positions to provide a platform for growth in the future.
t A continued focus on safety and the systematic management of risk.
t Playing to our strengths exploration, giant elds, deepwater and gas What we do value chains.
We are focused on accessing and extracting oil and gas through all t A simplied portfolio with strengthened incumbent positions and stages of the life cycle and we deliver these activities through three reduced operating complexity.
separate divisions: t An execution model that drives improvement in efficiency and reliability Exploration responsible for renewing our resource base through through both operations and investment.
t A bias to oil while maintaining a balance of gas markets and resource Developments ensures the safe, reliable and compliant execution of types.
wells drilling and completions and major projects and comprises the t Strong relationships built on mutual advantage, deep knowledge of the global wells organization and the global projects organization.
basins in which we operate, and technology.
Production ensures safe, reliable and compliant operations, including We intend to gradually increase investment with a focus on exploration, upstream production assets, midstream transportation and processing a key source of value creation, and evolve the nature of our relationships, activities, and the development of our resource base.
particularly with national oil companies.
These activities are optimized and integrated with support from global functions with specialist areas of expertise and the groups strategy and Our performance 2012 summary integration organization, which comprises finance, procurement and t The safety metrics of day away from work case frequency and loss of supply chain, human resources, technology and information technology.
primary containment improved compared with 2011 see page 64.
Our Upstream segment includes upstream and midstream activities, and t In 2012 replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the segment gas marketing and trading activities in 28 countries with production from was $22.5 billion, compared with $26.4 billion in 2011.
After adjusting for 19 countries, see pages 6-7. non-operating items and fair value accounting effects, underlying a replacement cost profit before interest and tax in 2012 was $19.4 billion Our market 2012 summary compared with $25.2 billion for the previous year see page 65. t Growth in world oil consumption remains weak.
t Our exploration division gained access to potential new resources in six 2 t Brent continued to be the main driver of oil price realizations: other countries, covering more than 68,000km in 2012. principal local markers included West Texas Intermediate WTI and t In 2012 there were five major upstream project start-ups.
t Disposal transactions generated $10.7 billion in proceeds in 2012. t Brent averaged $111.67 per barrel, similar to 2011s average of $111.26 per barrel.
Upstream profitability $ billion t Continued divergence in natural gas prices with US Henry Hub First of a RC profit before interest and tax Underlying RC profit before interest and tax Month Index falling 31% to average $2.79 mmBtu in 2012, while 50 European spot prices increased.
40 Brent $ bbl 30 2012 2011 5-year range 2007-2011 20 150 10 120 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 90 Outlook 60 t In 2013 we expect reported production to be lower than 2012, mainly due to the impact of divestments which we estimate at around 30 150mboe d. After adjusting for the impacts of divestments and entitlement effects in our PSAs, we expect underlying production to 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec grow.
t We expect four major projects to come onstream towards the end of Henry Hub $ mmBtu 2013, with a further six in 2014.
2012 2011 5-year range 2007-2011 t We expect to make the final investment decision FID on five projects 15 in 2013.
12 t Capital investment in 2013 will increase, reecting the progression of our major projects and the increases in exploration and access activity.
9 t We remain on track to deliver Upstreams contribution to the groups plan to generate an increase of around 50% in operating cash ow by 6 b 2014 compared with 2011.
3 a Underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax is not a recognized GAAP measure.
See footnote b on page 34 for further information.
The equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 0 replacement cost profit before interest and tax.
b See footnote c on page 21. Business review: BP in more depth 63 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 With effect from 1 January 2012, the Exploration and Production segment gas production is based on long-term contracts with xed prices, meaning was split to form two new operating segments, Upstream and TNK-BP, that market uctuations have less of an impact on our revenues.
reecting the way in which we were managing our investment in TNK-BP.
The US gas market in 2012 was dominated by an unusually warm winter Comparative data has been restated to reect this change.
For information at the start of the year, causing a collapse of heating demand.
Spot prices on our subsequent agreement to sell our interest in TNK-BP to Rosneft, fell to 10-year lows, promoting an unprecedented coal-to-gas switch in see pages 80-81. power generation, and a slowdown in gas drilling activity.
Together with an unusually warm summer, boosting electricity demand for airMarket commentary conditioning, these short-run market responses led to a modest recovery The growth in world oil consumption remained weak in 2012, with in US prices, which was stalled by a return to an unusually warm continued growth in China and other non-OECD countries offsetting yet December towards the end of 2012. another decline in OECD countries.
With oil markets balancing supply losses against weak consumption and high OPEC production, average In Europe, spot gas prices at the UK National Balancing Point increased by crude oil prices in 2012 were similar to the previous year.
Natural gas 6% to an average of 59.74 pence per therm for 2012.
This increase came prices continued to show divergence amongst markets globally in 2012. despite weak demand in European gas markets, due to the economic turmoil in Europe and gas being uncompetitive in power generation 2012 2011 2010 relative to coal.
European spot prices were supported by the tight global a Average oil marker prices $ per barrel LNG market as strong demand and high spot prices in Asia, driven by West Texas Intermediate 94.13 95.04 79.45 Japans need for LNG to replace lost nuclear power and cover demand Brent 111.67 111.26 79.50 during an unusually cold December in 2012, continued to attract LNG Average natural gas marker prices $ per million British thermal units away from Europe.
LNG deliveries to Europe in 2012 were 23% lower b Average Henry Hub gas price 2.79 4.04 4.39 than in 2011. pence per therm In 2011, compared with 2010, the strength of shale gas production growth Average UK National Balancing Point had led the average Henry Hub First of Month Index to weaken, falling by a gas price 59.74 56.33 42.45 8% to $4.04 mmBtu.
In the UK, National Balancing Point prices averaged a 56.33 pence per therm, 33% above prices in 2010.
b Henry Hub First of Month Index.
In 2013, we expect gas markets to continue to be driven by the economy, weather, domestic production, limited increases in LNG supplies and Crude oil prices continuation of the uncertainty surrounding nuclear power generation in Crude oil prices, as demonstrated by the industry benchmark of dated Japan.
Futures markets indicate that the large gap between US and Brent for the year, averaged $111.67 per barrel in 2012, similar to the 2011 European gas prices is expected to persist through 2013. average of $111.26 per barrel.
This represented the highest annual average ever in nominal terms.
2012 performance Brent remains an integral marker to the production portfolio with a Safety performance significant proportion of production being priced directly or indirectly from In Upstream, delivering safe, reliable and compliant operations remains this.
Certain regions use other local markers, which are derived using our highest priority.
The group safety and operational risk S&OR function differentials, premiums or a lagged impact from the Brent crude oil price.
supports the business line in delivering safe, reliable and compliant operations across the groups operated businesses.
S&OR staff are Prices rose early in 2012 due to concerns about risks to supply stemming deployed at the operating level throughout the Upstream segment to from the stand-off over Irans nuclear programme, with prices reaching a support the systematic and disciplined application of those standards.
peak of $128 per barrel in March.
Thereafter, weaker economic growth, This creates an independent reporting line, working alongside line high OPEC production and rising OECD commercial inventories pushed oil management while having the power to intervene, supported by a prices to a low of $89 per barrel in June, before better economic news, a systematic framework provided by BPs operating management system substantial reduction in Iranian production, and renewed concerns about OMS.
All upstream operated businesses are applying OMS to govern BP risks to supply drove a recovery in prices.
operations and continue to work to achieve conformance to standards and Against this backdrop of a weak economy and high oil prices, global oil practices required by OMS through the performance improvement cycle consumption remained weak, rising by roughly 1 million barrels per day for process.
We continue to work to enhance local systems and processes at a the year 1.1%.
Growth in 2012 was once again led by non-OECD all our sites.
See Safety on pages 46-50 for more information on OMS.
OECD consumption fell for the sixth time in the Safety performance is monitored by a suite of input and output metrics past seven years.
Non-OPEC production rose slightly, with strong US growth offset by declines elsewhere.
OPEC crude oil production remained that focus on personal and process safety including operational integrity, occupational health and legal compliance.
robust despite a large decline in Iranian output due to US and EU sanctions.
As a result, OECD commercial oil inventories rose above Key safety metrics 2008-2012 average in late 2012. number of incidents By comparison, global oil consumption in 2011 grew by roughly 0.6 million Recordable injury frequency Day away from work case frequency b Loss of primary containment barrels per day 0.7%.
OPEC production met the growth in consumption 120 despite the disruption of Libyan production due to large increases in Saudi Arabia and other Middle-Eastern producers, but the loss of production 100 drove oil prices sharply higher.
80 We expect oil price movements in 2013 to continue to be driven by the pace of global economic growth and its resulting implications for oil 60 consumption, by the supply growth in North America, and OPEC production decisions.
The path of Iranian production in the face of ongoing 40 US and EU sanctions remains a key uncertainty.
20 Natural gas prices 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Natural gas prices continued to diverge globally in 2012.
The average Indexed 2008 100 US Henry Hub First of Month Index fell 31% to average $2.79 mmBtu in 2012, while European spot prices increased.
In Upstream, with the In 2012 there was one workforce fatality in Upstream.
In 2011, there were exception of our North American gas business, a significant amount of our no workforce fatalities.
a From Oil Market Report 18 January 2013, OECD IEA 2013, page 4. b BP Statistical Review of World Energy June 2012.
64 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth The recordable injury frequency RIF, which measures the number of $ million 2012 2011 2010 recordable injuries to the BP workforce per 200,000 hours worked, was 0.32.
This is higher than 2011 when it was 0.30 and equal to 2010 when it Estimated net proved reserves was also 0.32.
The 2012 DAFWCF, a subset of the RIF that measures the net of royalties h number of cases where an employee misses one or more days from work Liquids million barrels i per 200,000 hours worked, was 0.053.
This is lower than 2011 when it Subsidiaries 4,477 5,154 5,558 was 0.060 and 2010 when it was 0.063. j Equity-accounted entities 838 929 1,221 In 2012 the number of reported loss of primary containment LOPC Equity-accounted entities j incidents in Upstream was 151, down from 152 in 2011.
The number bitumen 195 178 179 of reported oil spills equal to or larger than 1 barrel during 2012 was Total of subsidiaries and equity- 87, up from 71 in 2011. accounted entities 5,510 6,261 6,958 Natural gas billion cubic feet Financial and operating performance k Subsidiaries 33,264 36,380 37,809 $ million j Equity-accounted entities 2,549 2,397 2,532 2012 2011 2010 a Sales and other operating revenues 71,940 75,475 66,266 Total of subsidiaries and equityaccounted entities 35,813 38,777 40,341 Replacement cost profit before Total hydrocarbons million barrels of oil equivalent interest and tax 22,474 26,366 28,269 Subsidiaries 10,213 11,426 12,077 Net favourable unfavourable impact of non-operating items and fair Equity-accounted entities 1,472 1,520 1,837 b value accounting effects 3,055 1,141 3,196 Total of subsidiaries and equityUnderlying replacement cost profit accounted entities 11,685 12,946 13,914 c before interest and tax 19,419 25,225 25,073 h Liquids comprise crude oil, condensate, NGLs and bitumen.
i Capital expenditure and acquisitions 17,859 25,535 17,753 Includes 14 million barrels 20 million barrels at 31 December 2011 and 22 million barrels at d 31 December 2010 in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
BP average realizations $ per barrel j During 2012, upstream operations in Abu Dhabi, Argentina and Bolivia, as well as some of our Crude oil 108.94 107.91 77.54 operations in Angola, Canada, Indonesia and Trinidad, were conducted through equity-accounted entities.
Natural gas liquids 42.75 51.18 42.78 k Includes 2,890 billion cubic feet of natural gas 2,759 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2011 and e Liquids 102.10 101.29 73.41 2,921 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2010 in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP $ per thousand cubic feet Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
Natural gas 4.75 4.69 3.97 Sales and other operating revenues for 2012 were $72 billion, compared US natural gas 2.32 3.34 3.88 with $75 billion in 2011 and $66 billion in 2010.
The decrease in 2012, $ per thousand barrels of oil equivalent f compared with 2011, primarily reected lower production and persistently Total hydrocarbons 61.86 62.31 47.90 low Henry Hub gas prices.
The increase in 2011, compared with 2010, g Production net of royalties primarily reected higher oil and gas realizations, partly offset by lower e Liquids thousand barrels per day production.
Subsidiaries 896 992 1,228 The replacement cost profit before interest and tax for 2012 was Equity-accounted entities 284 294 289 $22,474 million, compared with $26,366 million for the previous year.
Total of subsidiaries and equityThis included net non-operating gains of $3,189 million, primarily a result accounted entities 1,179 1,285 1,517 of gains on disposals being partly offset by impairment charges.
See Natural gas million cubic feet per day page 37 for further information on non-operating items.
In addition, fair Subsidiaries 6,193 6,393 7,332 value accounting effects had an unfavourable impact of $134 million Equity-accounted entities 416 415 429 relative to managements measure of performance.
See page 37 for Total of subsidiaries and equityfurther information on fair value accounting effects.
accounted entities 6,609 6,807 7,761 After adjusting for non-operating items and fair value accounting effects, f Total hydrocarbons thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day the underlying replacement cost profit in 2012 was $19,419 million, Subsidiaries 1,963 2,094 2,492 compared with $25,225 million in 2011.
The 23% decrease was due to Equity-accounted entities 355 366 363 higher costs primarily higher depreciation, depletion and amortization, as Total of subsidiaries and equitywell as ongoing sector ination, lower production and lower realizations.
accounted entities 2,319 2,460 2,855 Total capital expenditure including acquisitions and asset exchanges in a Includes sales between businesses.
See b Fair value accounting effects represent the favourable unfavourable impact relative to page 66 for further information on acquisitions.
managements measure of performance see page 37 for further details.
c Underlying replacement cost profit is not a recognized GAAP measure.
See footnote b on Provisions for decommissioning increased from $17.2 billion at the end page 34 for information on underlying replacement cost profit.
The increase reects updated Realizations are based on sales of consolidated subsidiaries only, which excludes equityaccounted entities.
estimates of the cost of future decommissioning and additions for new e Liquids comprise crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids NGLs.
assets, largely offset by transfers to assets held for sale and divestments.
f Expressed in thousands of barrels of oil equivalent per day mboe d. Natural gas is converted to Decommissioning costs are initially capitalized within xed assets and are oil equivalent at 5.8 billion cubic feet 1 million barrels.
g subsequently depreciated as part of the asset.
Includes BPs share of production of equity-accounted entities in the Upstream segment.
Because of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their component parts.
Business review: BP in more depth 65 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Prior years comparative financial information t On 17 December 2012 BP announced that it had agreed to sell its 50% The replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the year ended non-operated interest in the Sean eld in the UK North Sea to SSE PLC 31 December 2011 of $26,366 million included net non-operating gains of for $288 million in cash.
The transaction is subject to third-party and $1,130 million, primarily a result of gains on disposals being partly offset regulatory approvals.
by impairments, a charge associated with the termination of our t On 19 December 2012 BP announced that it had agreed the sale of its agreement to sell our 60% interest in Pan American Energy LLC PAE to 34.3% interest in the Yacheng gas eld in the South China Sea to Bridas Corporation and other non-operating items.
In addition, fair value Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company KUFPEC for $308 accounting effects had a favourable impact of $11 million relative to million in cash.
The transaction is subject to regulatory, CNOOC and managements measure of performance.
The replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the year ended t BPs 33.3% ownership in the Phu My 3 power business in Vietnam 31 December 2010 of $28,269 million included net non-operating gains of was originally part of the divestment programme of the integrated gas $3,199 million, comprised primarily of gains on disposals that completed business to TNK-BP.
However, the Phu My 3 part of the divestment during the year partly offset by impairment charges and fair value losses failed to conclude prior to the expiry of the sale and purchase on embedded derivatives.
In addition, fair value accounting effects had an agreement, and hence was reclassied from being held for sale into unfavourable impact of $3 million relative to managements measure of routine business.
BP is open to other future divestment options and is performance.
currently evaluating its position in the business over the medium term.
Exploration After adjusting for non-operating items and fair value accounting effects, We continually seek access to resources and in 2012 this included Brazil, the underlying replacement cost profit in 2011 compared with 2010 was 2 where we farmed in to four deepwater concessions covering 2,100km on marginally increased, reecting higher realizations partially offset by lower the Equatorial Margin: Canada, where we were the successful bidder on production volumes including in higher margin areas.
2 four leases, covering almost 14,000km offshore Nova Scotia, for which Acquisitions and disposals award is expected to be completed in early 2013: Egypt, where we During 2012 we undertook a number of disposals.
In total, disposal 2 farmed in to two blocks covering 1,400km : deepwater Gulf of Mexico, transactions generated $10.7 billion in proceeds during 2012.
With regards 2 where we were assigned 51 leases covering 1,200km : Namibia, where to proved reserves, 441mmboe net were disposed of, all within our 2 we farmed in to five deepwater blocks covering 22,900km : Uruguay, subsidiaries.
There were no significant acquisitions in 2012. where we signed three production sharing agreements PSAs for 2 deepwater exploration blocks covering almost 26,000km : and the Disposals 2 onshore US, where we signed an agreement to lease 300km in the t On 28 February 2012 BP announced it had agreed terms with LINN Utica Point Pleasant shale formation in Ohio.
Energy to sell BPs Hugoton basin assets including the Jayhawk NGL plant.
Under the agreement LINN Energy agreed to pay BP $1.2 billion Our exploration and appraisal programme is currently active in Algeria, in cash.
The sale completed on 30 March 2012.
Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Canada, Egypt, the deepwater Gulf of t On 27 March 2012 BP announced that it had agreed to sell its interests Mexico, Jordan, Namibia, Trinidad, the UK North Sea, Oman and in all of its operated gas elds in the southern North Sea, including onshore US.
associated pipeline infrastructure and the Dimlington terminal including The group explores for oil and natural gas under a wide range of licensing, the integrated Easington terminal to Perenco UK Ltd for $400 million.
joint venture and other contractual agreements.
We may do this alone or, The sale completed in October 2012. more frequently, with partners.
BP acts as operator for many of these t On 2 April 2012 the sale of the Canadian natural gas liquid business to ventures.
Plains Midstream Canada ULC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Plains All In 2012 our exploration and appraisal costs, excluding lease acquisitions, American Pipeline L. P. announced in 2011, was completed.
were $4,317 million, compared with $2,398 million in 2011 and $2,706 t On 25 June 2012 BP announced that it had agreed to sell its interests in million in 2010.
These costs included exploration and appraisal drilling the Jonah and Pinedale upstream operation in Wyoming to LINN expenditures, which were capitalized within intangible xed assets, and Energy for $1.025 billion.
The sale completed on 31 July 2012. geological and geophysical exploration costs, which were charged to t On 26 June 2012 BP announced that it had agreed to sell its nonincome as incurred.
Approximately 58% of 2012 exploration and appraisal operated interests in the Alba and Britannia elds in the UK North Sea to costs were directed towards appraisal activity.
In 2012, we participated in Mitsui & Co Ltd for $280 million.
The sale completed in December 2012.
177 gross 46.2 net exploration and appraisal wells in eight countries.
t On 10 August 2012 BP announced that it had agreed to sell its Sunray Total exploration expense in 2012 of $1,475 million 2011 $1,520 million and Hemphill gas processing plants in Texas, together with their and 2010 $843 million included the write-off of expenses related to associated gas gathering system, to Eagle Rock Energy Partners for unsuccessful drilling activities in the UK North Sea $97 million, Namibia $228 million.
The sale completed on 1 October 2012.
It also included $97 million related to t On 10 September 2012 BP announced that it had agreed to sell its decommissioning of idle infrastructure, as required by the Bureau of interests in a number of non-strategic assets in the Gulf of Mexico to Ocean Energy Management Regulation and Enforcements Notice of Plains Exploration and Production Company for $5.55 billion.
The sale Lessees 2010 G05 issued in October 2010. includes interests in three BP-operated assets: the Marlin hub, Reserves comprised of the Marlin, Dorado and King elds BP 100% : Horn Reserves booking from new discoveries will depend on the results of Mountain BP 100% and Holstein BP 50%.
The deal also includes ongoing technical and commercial evaluations, including appraisal drilling.
BPs stake in two non-operated assets: Ram Powell BP 31% and Diana Hoover BP 33.33%.
The sale completed on 30 November 2012.
The Upstream segments total hydrocarbon reserves, on an oil equivalent t On 13 September 2012 BP announced that it had agreed to sell its basis including equity-accounted entities comprised 11,685mmboe 18.36% non-operated interest in the Draugen eld in the Norwegian 10,213mmboe for subsidiaries and 1,472mmboe for equity-accounted Sea to AS Norske Shell for $240 million in cash.
The sale completed in entities at 31 December 2012, a decrease of 10% decrease of 11% for November 2012. subsidiaries and decrease of 3% for equity-accounted entities compared with the 31 December 2011 reserves of 12,946mmboe 11,426mmboe t On 28 November 2012 BP announced that it had agreed to sell a for subsidiaries and 1,520mmboe for equity-accounted entities.
package of its central North Sea assets to TAQA Bratani Ltd for up to $1.3 billion comprising $1.058 billion consideration plus future The proved reserves replacement ratio is the extent to which production payments which, dependent on oil price and production, are expected is replaced by proved reserves additions.
This ratio is expressed in oil to exceed $250 million after tax.
This package comprised the nonequivalent terms and includes changes resulting from revisions to operated Braes and Braemar assets, and the operated Harding, Maclure previous estimates, improved recovery and extensions and discoveries.
The transaction is subject to third-party and For 2012 the proved reserves replacement ratio for the Upstream regulatory approvals.
segment, excluding acquisitions and disposals, was 6% for subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, 5% for subsidiaries alone and 65% for 66 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Major projects portfolio Egypt India Canada North Sea Alaska West Nile Delta KGD6 Sunrise 1 Kinnoull Alaska Viscous Oil East Nile Delta low Pike 1 Quad 204 Point Thomson pressure hub Sunrise 2 Clair Ridge Satis Terre fide Grace Norway Azerbaijan Hod redevelopment Chirag oil Azeri subsea Shah Deniz 2 Indonesia North Africa Gulf of Mexico Sanga Sanga CBM In Salah gas southern elds Na Kika phase 3 Tangguh expansion In Amenas compression Mars B Bourarhet Mad Dog phase 2 Middle East Freedom Trinidad & Tobago Oman K hazzan Moccasin Juniper Thunder Horse expansion Manakin Thunder Horse WI 2 Angola Australia Brazil Angola LNG North Rankin 2 Itaip CLOV Western Flank A B31 SE Western Flank B On track for 2013 14 start-up.
B18 PCC Persephone Being progressed for 2015 and beyond.
Greater Plutonio 3 Kizomba Satellites 2 Zinia 2 equity-accounted entities alone.
For more information on proved reserves In aggregate, after adjusting for the impact of price movements on our replacement for the group, see pages 85-86. entitlement to production in our PSAs and the effect of acquisitions and disposals, underlying production was broadly at compared with 2011.
Developments This primarily reects major project start-ups and improved operating In 2012 five major projects came onstream: Devenick in the North Sea: performance in Angola, partly offset by natural eld decline and the Skarv in the Norwegian Sea: Clochas Mavacola and the Pluto eld, part impact of turnaround and maintenance activities.
of the Pluto, Saturno, Venus and Marte PSVM project in Angola: and The group and its equity-accounted entities have numerous long-term Galapagos in the Gulf of Mexico.
In November 2012 we announced the Savonette gas discovery offshore Trinidad.
sales commitments in their various business activities, all of which are expected to be sourced from supplies available to the group that are not We took final investment decisions on three projects: Juniper, Kizomba subject to priorities, curtailments or other restrictions.
No single contract Satellites phase 2 and Point Thomson.
or group of related contracts is material to the group.
The map above shows our major development areas, which include Regional summary Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan, Canada, Egypt, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, North Africa and the UK North Sea.
Development expenditure The following discussion reviews operations in our upstream business by of subsidiaries incurred in 2012, excluding midstream activities, was geographical area, and lists associated significant events.
BPs percentage $12.0 billion, compared with $10.2 billion in 2011 and $9.7 billion in 2010. working interest in oil and gas assets is shown in brackets.
Working interest is the cost-bearing ownership share of an oil or gas lease.
Production Consequently, the percentages disclosed for certain agreements do not Our oil and natural gas production assets are located onshore and offshore necessarily reect the percentage interests in reserves and production.
and include wells, gathering centres, in-eld ow lines, processing facilities, storage facilities, offshore platforms, export systems e. g. transit Europe In Europe, BP is active in the UK North Sea and the Norwegian Sea.
Key lines, pipelines and LNG plant facilities.
The principal areas of production are Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Trinidad, the UAE, the UK and aspects of our activities in the North Sea include a focus on in-eld drilling and selected new eld developments.
We are the largest producer of the US.
Our total hydrocarbon production during 2012 averaged 2,319 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day mboe d. This comprised 1,963mboe d t On 16 November 2010, production from the Rhum gas eld in the for subsidiaries and 355mboe d for equity-accounted entities, a decrease central North Sea was suspended following the imposition of EU of 6% decreases of 10% for liquids and 3% for gas and a decrease of sanctions on Iran.
Rhum is owned by BP 50% and the Iranian Oil 3% decrease of 3% for liquids and no change for gas respectively Company 50% under a joint operating agreement dating back to the compared with 2011.
For subsidiaries, 34% of our production was in the early 1970s.
See Further note on certain US, 19% in Trinidad and 8% in the UK.
activities on page 45 for further information.
t In October 2012 BP announced the start-up of the Devenick gas project in the central North Sea.
It was subsequently announced in November Business review: BP in more depth 67 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 2012 that BPs interests in Devenick would form part of the package of t Also on 30 March BP, ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips jointly announced central North Sea assets to be sold to TAQA Bratani Ltd along with the that they are working together on a plan aimed at commercializing the Braes and Braemar assets and the Harding and Maclure assets.
extensive natural gas resources on the North Slope of Alaska.
The three companies, along with TransCanada, are assessing a potential LNG t In December 2012 BP announced that it had acquired Totals equity in development project.
the Mungo and Monan Fields for a cost of $155 million.
The acquisition takes BPs ownership of Mungo and Monan from 69% to 82%.
t In June 2012 BP took the decision to suspend the Liberty project in Alaska.
The Liberty oil eld is located approximately six miles offshore t In December 2012 gas production from the Skarv eld in the Norwegian in the Beaufort Sea.
In November 2010 BP made the decision to Sea commenced.
The new Skarv oating production storage and suspend on-site physical construction of the Liberty rig to conduct an ofoading vessel FPSO is expected to produce for 25 years and to be a extensive engineering review and evaluation of the rig design, key hub for BP in Norway, with production capabilities of 85,000 barrels materials, and key systems.
In the course of this review it was per day of oil and 670 million standard cubic feet per day mmcf d of determined that the rig would require significant changes and gas.
The vessel is built for adverse weather and is the most northerly investment in order to meet BP standards, and that these were not operated FPSO in BPs portfolio.
The decision to suspend the Liberty project resulted in an t In January 2013 production from the new facilities at the Valhall eld in impairment of the  value totalling $1 billion in the southern part of the Norwegian North Sea commenced.
Production the second quarter of 2012.
On 20 November BP led a request for a from Valhall is expected to build up to around 65,000 barrels of oil five-year lease extension to pursue alternative development plans.
On equivalent per day in the second half of 2013.
31 December 2012 the US Bureau of Safety and Environmental North America Enforcement BSEE approved a two-year extension for the Liberty Our upstream activities in North America take place in four main areas: leases until 31 December 2014 to allow BP time to prepare and submit deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Lower 48 states, Alaska and Canada.
For a new Liberty development plan.
BSEE also advised that they will grant further information on the activities of BPs Gulf Coast Restoration a further extension as necessary to accommodate the regulatory Organization established following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, see review, preparation, and issuance of the final Record of Decision by the pages 59-62.
BP is one of the largest producers of hydrocarbons and the agencies on the proposed development project.
largest acreage holder in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, operating four t In November 2012 the last remaining claims related to the March and production hubs.
April 2006 leaks from the Prudhoe Bay Oil Transit Lines were resolved.
t In 2012 BP started up an additional two rigs in the Gulf of Mexico and On 31 March 2009 the State of Alaska led a complaint seeking civil by the end of the year had seven rigs operational.
An eighth rig is in penalties and damages relating to these leaks.
In December 2011, BP place on the Mad Dog platform and is expected to start up in 2013. and the State of Alaska entered into a Dispute Resolution Agreement that provided for a $10-million payment attributable to the states t BP was assigned 51 blocks in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, 40 blocks environmental and attorneys fee claims, and binding arbitration of the from the 2012 central lease sale that took place in June 2012 and 11 states claims for royalty income damages, if any, arising out of the 2006 blocks from the western lease sale which occurred in December 2011. oil spills and related production shut-ins and pipeline replacements.
The t In June 2012 BP announced the start-up of the Galapagos development arbitration panel issued its final award on 31 October 2012, which in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
The development includes the subsea required BP to pay the state $245.7 million.
After reimbursement from tie-back to the BP operated Na Kika facility of three deepwater elds the other Prudhoe Bay owners, BPs net working interest share of the Isabela, Santiago and Santa Cruz.
arbitration award and the other claims was $64.8 million and $2.6 million For information on the temporary suspension and mandatory debarment respectively.
Payments to the state were made on 13 and 14 November notices issued by the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA see 2012.
In Canada, BP is currently focused on oil sands development, and intends The US onshore business operates in the Lower 48 states producing to use in situ steam-assisted gravity drainage SAGD technology.
This natural gas, NGLs and condensate across nine states, including uses the injection of steam into the reservoir to warm the bitumen so that production from tight gas, coalbed methane CBM and shale gas assets.
it can ow to the surface through producing wells.
We hold interests in For further information on the use of hydraulic fracturing in our shale gas three oil sands leases through the Sunrise Oil Sands and Terre fide Grace assets see pages 52-53. partnerships and the Pike Oil Sands joint venture.
In addition, we have significant exploration interests in the Canadian Beaufort Sea.
In 2012 we t During 2012 the US lower 48 onshore gas business recognized 2 were the successful bidder on four leases covering almost 14,000km impairment losses of $1,458 million primarily in the Woodford and offshore Nova Scotia, for which award is expected to be completed in Fayetteville shales reecting reduced fair market values in the prevailing early 2013. low price environment.
t In March 2012 BP announced it had signed an agreement to lease South America 2 approximately 300 km in northeast Ohio for future oil and gas In South America, BP has upstream activities in Brazil, Argentina, Bolivia, production in the Utica Point Pleasant shale formation.
The agreement Chile, Uruguay and Trinidad & Tobago.
was signed with the Associated Landowners of the Ohio Valley ALOV, In Brazil, BP has interests in 14 exploration and production blocks: seven a group representing area mineral owners.
in the Campos basin, two in the Cear basin, two in the Barreirinhas basin, In Alaska, we operate 13 North Slope oilelds including Prudhoe Bay, one in the Camamu-Almada basin, and two onshore in the Parnaiba basin.
Endicott, Northstar and Milne Point and four North Slope pipelines, and t In March 2012 BP announced that the Brazilian National Petroleum own significant interests in six other producing elds.
Agency ANP approved its farm in to four deepwater exploration and t On 30 March 2012 BP, other Alaska North Slope producers, and the production concessions operated by Petrleo Brasileiro S. A. Petrobras State of Alaska announced the settlement of a long-running legal in Brazil.
BP has a 40% interest in each of the blocks, located in the dispute about the future development of the Point Thomson eld.
BP Barreirinhas and Cear basins, and together the blocks cover a total 2 holds a 32% interest in the Point Thomson eld and ExxonMobil is the area of 2,113km.
Under the terms of the settlement agreement, the working In Argentina, Bolivia and Chile, BP conducts activity through PAE, an interest owners committed to an initial gas and condensate cycling equity-accounted joint venture with Bridas Corporation in which BP has a project, with production start-up scheduled for May 2016.
portion of the cost of this initial project will be pre-investment for a full t On 24 January 2012 the Republic of Bolivia issued a press statement scale Point Thomson gas development project with production either to declaring its intent to nationalize PAEs interests in the Caipipendi be sold in world markets via a major North Slope gas export project: or Operations Contract.
Nevertheless, no formal decision was issued or to be transported and injected into the main Prudhoe Bay reservoirs to announced by the government, and no nationalization process has increase oil recovery in the near term, and later reproduced and sold.
68 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth t In 2012 production was impacted by the construction union Los t During 2012 Egypt elected President Morsi and executive power was Dragones strike in the Cerro Dragon eld which commenced on passed from the interim military ruling council to the new government.
At the end of October an agreement was reached with the There has been a significant reduction in Central Bank foreign currency construction union and in November with the oil labour workers union reserves and the political and economic outlook remains uncertain.
Our at a national and provincial level.
production and operations continue and we are monitoring and working with the government to manage the situation.
In Uruguay, BP confirmed in October 2012 that it had signed PSAs for three offshore deepwater exploration blocks.
The contracts cover t In June 2012 first gas from the Seth development in Egypt was blocks 11 and 12 in the Pelotas basin and block 6 in the Punta del Este announced.
The Seth eld is located 60km offshore in the Ras El Bar 2 basin and together cover an area of almost 26,000km.
The PSAs provide concession in the east Nile Delta, close to the existing producing that BP will hold a 100% interest in the blocks and the Uruguayan state oil Hapy and Denise elds.
company, ANCAP, will have a right to participate in up to 30% of any t In August 2012 BP announced the Taurt North and Seth South gas discoveries.
BP intends to carry out 2D and 3D seismic acquisition on the discoveries in the North El Burg offshore concession BP 50% and blocks during the initial three-year exploration phase of the contracts.
This operator, in the Nile Delta.
These are the fourth and fifth discoveries work is expected to begin in 2013. made by BP in the concession following Satis-1 and Satis-3 Oligocene deep discoveries and Salmon-1 shallow Pleistocene discovery.
In Trinidad & Tobago, BP almost doubled its exploration and production licences acreage during 2012, and now holds licences covering 1,806,000 In Namibia, BP is a non-operating partner in five deepwater blocks, which acres offshore of the east coast.
Facilities include 13 offshore platforms are currently in the exploration phase.
All five blocks were accessed in and one onshore processing facility.
Production is comprised of oil, gas 2012. and NGLs.
In May, BP announced that it had signed two PSAs with the Asia government of Trinidad & Tobago for the two deepwater exploration and In Asia, BP has activities in Western Indonesia, China, Azerbaijan, Oman, production blocks awarded in 2011.
BP has a 100% interest in both these Jordan, Abu Dhabi, India and Iraq.
In Indonesia, BP has a joint interest in Virginia Indonesia Company LLC Africa VICO, the operator of the Sanga-Sanga PSA BP 38% supplying gas to BPs upstream activities in Africa are located in Angola, Algeria, Libya, Indonesias largest LNG export facility, the Bontang LNG plant in Kalimantan.
BP also participates in the Sanga-Sanga CBM PSA BP 38%, as well as four BP is present in nine major deepwater licences offshore Angola and is other CBM PSAs Tanjung IV and Kapuas I, II and III in the Barito basin of operator in four of these.
In addition, BP holds a 13.6% interest in the Central Kalimantan.
BP holds a 44% interest in the Pertamina-operated Angola LNG project.
Tanjung IV PSA, and a 45% operating interest in each of the Kapuas I, II and III PSAs.
After conducting site visits and further evaluation BP has decided t The Clochas and Mavacola elds BP 26.7%, operated by Esso Angola, to exit the Kapuas I, II and III CBM PSAs and will transfer its working interest started production in May 2012 and are steadily ramping up.
Production to its partner in each PSA, subject to approval.
reached 65,000 barrels of oil per day by the end of 2012.
In China, BPs upstream activities in the country include production from t In December 2012 production from the PSVM development area in the China National Offshore Oil Corporation CNOOC operated Yacheng Block 31, offshore Angola, started.
Initial production, coming from the offshore gas eld BP 34.3% as well as deepwater exploration in the Pluto eld, averages 60,000 barrels of oil per day.
PSVM is expected South China Seas Block 42 05 BP 40.82% and Block 43 11 BP to build towards plateau rates of 150,000 barrels per day of oil over the 40.82%.
In December 2012 BP announced the sale of its interest in coming year.
Yacheng gas eld to Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company see In Algeria, BP is a partner with Sonatrach and Statoil in the In Salah Disposals on page 66.
BP 33.15% and In Amenas BP 45.89% projects, which supply gas to the domestic and European markets.
In addition, BP is in a joint venture In Azerbaijan, BP is the largest foreign investor and operates two PSAs, with Sonatrach in the Bourarhet Sud block, located to the south west of In  ACG and Shah Deniz, and also holds other Amenas.
The Bourarhet licence has been extended until September 2014 exploration leases.
BP is expecting to progress the sanctioned Chirag and appraisal is ongoing.
BPs total assets in Algeria at 31 December 2012 Oil project by starting up the West Chirag production and drilling platform were $2,372 million $335 million current and $2,037 million non-current.
in late 2013. t On 16 January 2013, a terrorist attack occurred at the In Amenas joint t In 2012 further EU and US regulations concerning restrictive measures venture site.
Following the incident, BP had a staged reduction of against Iran were issued.
These further measures claried that they do non-essential workers out of Algeria as a precautionary and temporary not apply to Naftiran Intertrade Co. Ltd NICO, a Shah Deniz project measure.
Limited production from Train 1 restarted on 22 February.
We participant, and as such NICO and Shah Deniz continue to operate in full are working with our joint-venture partners to assess the broader compliance with EU and US law.
For further information see Further impact of the incident.
BP remains committed to operating in Algeria note on certain activities on page 45. where it has high-quality assets.
t In June 2012 the Shah Deniz consortium announced it was considering In Libya, BP is in partnership with the Libyan Investment Authority LIA two export routes for gas sales to Europe.
The Nabucco West project to explore acreage in the onshore Ghadames and offshore Sirt basins, was selected as the single pipeline option for the potential export of covered under the exploration and production-sharing agreement EPSA Shah Deniz Stage 2 gas to Central Europe.
The Trans-Adriatic Pipeline ratied in December 2007 BP 85%.
BPs total assets in Libya at TAP was selected as the potential route for export of Stage 2 gas to 31 December 2012 were $452 million $101 million current and $351 million Italy.
The Shah Deniz consortium will continue to work with the owners non-current.
of both pipeline options and potential gas purchasers to agree transit and marketing terms before selecting the final option and concluding t On 29 May 2012 BP announced that it had lifted force majeure in the related gas sales agreements ahead of the Shah Deniz final respect of its Libyan EPSA with the National Oil Corporation NOC investment decision planned for mid-2013.
Development of the South with effect from 15 May 2012.
Force majeure had been in place East Europe Pipeline SEEP project will cease.
since 21 February 2011 following the outbreak of civil unrest in Libya.
t In September 2012 BP was offered 12% equity in the Trans-Anatolian Since lifting force majeure we have completed the rehabilitation and gas pipeline TANAP by SOCAR, which acts as a project operator and re-stafng of our Tripoli ofce, and resumed planning and preparation its majority shareholder.
In late December 2012 BP together with Total work towards our onshore and offshore exploration drilling and Statoil agreed with SOCAR the main principles for its participation programmes.
in the TANAP project, the key terms for the TANAP GTA for Shah Deniz In Egypt, BP and its partners currently produce 10% of Egypts oil Stage 2 gas, as well as a framework for technical co-operation on the production and more than 30% of its gas production.
BPs total assets in project.
By the end of 2012 significant progress was also achieved in Egypt at 31 December 2012 were $7,818 million, of which $2,982 million resolving other outstanding commercial issues with SOCAR including were current see Financial statements Note 26 on page 224 and the Shah Deniz Stage 2 gas marketing entity and the South Caucasus $4,836 million were non-current.
Business review: BP in more depth 69 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 BP is currently conducting exploration and appraisal programmes in Jordan Oil and natural gas transportation and Oman.
BP has direct or indirect interests in certain crude oil and natural gas transportation systems.
The following narrative details the significant In Abu Dhabi, we have equity interests of 9.5% and 14.67% in onshore events that occurred during 2012 by geographical area.
The Abu Dhabi onshore concession expires in January 2014 with a consequent production impact BPs onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and related transportation of approximately 140mb d. assets are included in the Downstream segment see page 77.
In India, BP has a 30% interest in nine oil and gas PSAs operated by Europe Reliance Industries Limited RIL, a 50% interest in one operated PSA, In the UK sector of the North Sea, BP operates the Forties Pipeline and is a partner with RIL in a 50:50 joint venture for the sourcing and System FPS BP 100%, an integrated oil and NGLs transportation and marketing of gas in India.
processing system that handles production from more than 80 elds in the central North Sea.
The system has a capacity of more than 1 million t In 2011, BP acquired from RIL a 30% interest in 21 oil and gas PSAs barrels per day, with average throughput in 2012 of 390mboe d. During in India operated by RIL.
As part of continued evaluation to high grade 2012 FPS processed its 8 billionth barrel, having transported and the portfolio and focus our efforts, 12 of the blocks acquired were processed more than one third of the total UK North Sea oil produced relinquished in 2012. to date.
BP also operates and has a 36% interest in the Central Area t During 2012 progress continued toward the anticipated ramp-up of Transmission System CATS, a 400-kilometre natural gas pipeline system drilling and project activity in 2013.
Activities to arrest the decline in in the central UK sector of the North Sea.
The pipeline has a transportation production on Block KG D6 elds were approved by the relevant capacity of 293mboe d to a natural gas terminal at Teesside in north-east authorities and execution planning has commenced.
Average throughput in 2012 was 54mboe d. CATS offers natural also approved the submitted Field Development Plan FDP of Satellite I gas transportation and processing services.
In addition, BP operates the discoveries, declaration of commerciality of R-Series discoveries and Sullom Voe oil and gas terminal in Shetland.
The Dimlington and Easington appraisal plan of the Cauvery basin block discovery.
Site survey and terminals in Humberside form part of the southern gas assets, the sale of engineering studies have been undertaken to progress already which was completed in November 2012 see Disposals on page 66. discovered resources in the KG D6 and NEC 25 blocks.
The final North America investment decisions on these projects are subject to completion of BP owns a 46.9% interest in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System TAPS.
appraisal and engineering work, obtaining regulatory approvals and The TAPS transports crude oil from Prudhoe Bay on the Alaska North determining gas pricing.
Exploration drilling is scheduled to commence Slope to the port of Valdez in south-east Alaska.
In Iraq, BP holds a 38% working interest and is the lead contractor in the t In April 2012 the two minority owners of TAPS, Koch 3.08% and Rumaila technical service contract.
Rumaila is one of the worlds largest Unocal 1.37% gave notice to BP, ExxonMobil 20.4% and oilelds and was discovered by BP, as part of a consortium, in 1953 and ConocoPhillips 28.2% of their intentions to withdraw as an owner of comprises five producing reservoirs.
The effect of these notications and the resultant ownership interest and abandonment obligations are still under discussion and Australasia regulatory review.
In Australasia, we are active in Australia and Eastern Indonesia.
t In September 2012 BP, ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips entered into In Australia, BP is one of seven partners in the North West Shelf NWS two settlement agreements among themselves on the pooling of costs venture, which has been producing LNG, pipeline gas, condensate, LPG on TAPS and the agreements are under review by the Federal Energy and oil since the 1980s.
Six partners including BP hold an equal 16.67% Regulatory Commission.
interest in the gas infrastructure and an equal 15.78% interest in the gas Asia and condensate reserves, with a seventh partner owning the remaining BP, as operator, holds a 30.1% interest in and manages the Baku-Tbilisi- 5.32%.
BP also has a 16.67% interest in some of the NWS oil reserves Ceyhan BTC oil pipeline.
The 1,768-kilometre pipeline transports oil from and related infrastructure.
The NWS venture is currently the principal the BP-operated ACG oileld in the Caspian Sea, along with other supplier to the domestic market in Western Australia and one of the a third-party oil, to the eastern Mediterranean port of Ceyhan and has a largest LNG export projects in Asia with five LNG trains in operation.
BP capacity of 1.2 million barrels per day.
Average throughput in 2012 was also holds a 5.375% interest in the Jansz-lo eld and 12.5% interests in 673mboe d. BP is technical operator of, and holds a 25.5% interest in, the the Geryon, Orthrus and Maenad elds which are part of the Greater 693-kilometre South Caucasus Pipeline, which takes gas from Azerbaijan Gorgon project.
In May 2012 the 3D seismic survey of the four deepwater through Georgia to the Turkish border and has a capacity of 134mboe d offshore exploration blocks in the Ceduna Sub Basin BP 100% awarded 2 with average throughput in 2012 of 67.8mboe d. In addition, BP operates in 2011 was completed.
the Western Export Route Pipeline between Azerbaijan and the Black Sea Following interpretation of the seismic survey, BP will drill four deepwater coast of Georgia as operator of Azerbaijan International Operating wells in this frontier exploration basin, located within the Great Australian Company.
Bight off the coast of southern Australia.
In Eastern Indonesia, BP has a 100% interest in the North Arafura PSA, Liqueed natural gas Our LNG activities are located in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Australia, China, located on the coast of the Arafura Sea, 480 kilometres south east of our Tangguh LNG plant BP 37.16% and operator.
In addition, BP owns a 32% Indonesia and Trinidad.
In both the Atlantic and Asian regions, BP is marketing LNG using BP LNG shipping and contractual rights to access interest in the Chevron-operated West Papua I and Ill PSAs, located 120 kilometres to the south of the Tangguh LNG plant see Liqueed import terminal capacity in the liquid markets of the US via Cove Point and Elba Island, the UK via the Isle of Grain and Italy Rovigo, and is supplying natural gas on pages 70-71.
BP also has 100% interests in two deepwater PSAs: West Aru I and II.
The PSAs are located 500 kilometres Asian customers in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan.
south west of the North Arafura PSA and 200 kilometres west of the Aru In Abu Dhabi, we have a 10% equity shareholding in the Abu Dhabi Gas island group.
Liquefaction Company, which in 2012 supplied 5.6 million tonnes of LNG a An LNG train is a processing facility used to liquefy and purify natural gas in the formation of 289 billion cubic feet equivalent regasied.
In Angola, BP has a 13.6% share in the Angola LNG project, which is Midstream activities expected to receive approximately 1 billion cubic feet of associated gas per day from offshore producing blocks and to produce 5.2 million tonnes Midstream activities involve the ownership and management of crude oil per annum of LNG gross, as well as related gas liquids products.
The and natural gas pipelines, processing facilities and export terminals, LNG Angola LNG plant is in the process of being commissioned and is processing facilities and transportation, and our natural gas liquids NGLs expected to start production in 2013. extraction business.
In Australia, BP is one of seven partners in the NWS venture.
The joint venture operation covers offshore production platforms, trunklines, 70 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth onshore gas and LNG processing plants and LNG carriers.
BPs net share and power can be bought and sold.
OTC forward contracts have evolved of the capacity of NWS LNG trains 1-5 is 2.7 million tonnes per annum of in both the US and UK markets, enabling gas and power to be sold LNG.
BP is also one of five partners in the Browse LNG venture operated forward in a variety of locations and future periods.
These contracts are by Woodside and holds a 17% interest.
A proposed greeneld LNG used both to sell production into the wholesale markets and as trading development for Browse hydrocarbons is being considered by the Browse instruments to buy and sell gas and power in future periods.
Storage and joint venture and is currently in the early design stage.
The proposed transportation contracts allow the group to store and transport gas, and development remains subject to regulatory, joint-venture and internal BP transmit power between these locations.
The group has developed a risk approvals.
governance framework that seeks to manage and oversee the financial risks associated with this trading activity, which is described in Note 26 to In China, BP has a 30% equity stake in the 7 million tonnes per annum the Financial statements on page 220.
The groups trading activities in capacity Guangdong LNG regasication and pipeline project in south-east natural gas are managed by the integrated supply and trading function.
China, making it the only foreign partner in Chinas LNG import business.
The terminal is also supplied under a long-term contract with Australias The range of contracts that the group enters into is described in Certain NWS project described above.
denitions commodity trading contracts, on page 98.
In Indonesia, BP is involved in two of the three LNG centres in the country.
BP participates in Indonesias LNG exports through its holdings in the Sanga-Sanga PSA BP 38%.
Sanga-Sanga currently delivers around 16% of the total gas feed to Bontang, one of the worlds largest LNG plants.
The Bontang plant has a capacity of 22 million tonnes per annum of LNG and produced more than 11 million tonnes of LNG in 2012.
Also in Indonesia, BP has its first operated LNG plant, Tangguh BP 37.16%, in Papua Barat.
The asset comprises 14 producing wells, two offshore platforms, two pipelines and an LNG plant with two production trains with a total capacity of 7.6 million tonnes per annum.
Tangguh supplies LNG to customers in China, South Korea, Mexico and Japan through a combination of long-, mediumand short-term contracts.
t In December 2012 BP and partners received government approval for the Tangguh expansion project plan of development for a third LNG train at Tangguh, which would increase capacity by 3.8 million tonnes per annum.
The new train is expected to be scheduled for commissioning in late 2018.
In Trinidad, BPs net share of the capacity of Atlantic LNG trains 1, 2, 3 and 4 is 6 million tonnes of LNG per year.
All of the LNG from Atlantic train 1 and most of the LNG from trains 2 and 3 is sold to third parties in the US and Spain under long-term contracts.
All of BPs LNG entitlement from Atlantic LNG train 4 and some of its entitlement from trains 2 and 3 is marketed via BPs LNG marketing and trading business to a variety of markets including the Dominican Republic, India, Japan, South Korea, Spain, the UK and the US.
Gas marketing and trading activities Marketing and trading of natural gas, power and NGLs provide routes into liquid markets for BPs produced gas, and generate margins and fees associated with the provision of physical products and derivatives to third parties and income from asset optimization and trading.
Gas and power marketing and trading activity is undertaken primarily in the US, Canada and Europe to market both BP production and third-party natural gas, to support group LNG activities and manage market price risk, as well as to create incremental trading opportunities through the use of commodity derivative contracts.
Additionally, this activity generates fee income and enhances margins from sources such as the management of price risk on behalf of third-party customers.
These markets are large, liquid and volatile.
Market conditions have become more challenging over the past few years due to the availability of shale gas in North America and an excess of supply on long-term contracts from producers coupled with recession-led demand reduction in Europe.
The business including support functions operates primarily from ofces in Houston and London and employs around 1,200 people.
In connection with its trading activities, the group uses a range of commodity derivative contracts, storage and transport contracts.
These include commodity derivatives such as futures, swaps and options to manage price risk and forward contracts used to buy and sell gas and power in the marketplace.
Using these contracts, in combination with rights to access storage and transportation capacity, allows the group to access advantageous pricing differences between locations, time periods and arbitrage between markets.
Natural gas futures and options are traded through exchanges, while over-the-counter OTC options and swaps are used for both gas and power transactions through bilateral and or centrally cleared arrangements.
Futures and options are primarily used to trade the key index prices, such as Henry Hub, while swaps can be tailored to price with reference to specic delivery locations where gas Business review: BP in more depth 71 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Downstream t Global lubricants demand continued to be weak in 2012 as a result of economic slowdown, despite growth in excess of 2% in the emerging markets of Brazil, Russia, India and China.
2012 was a year of sustained safety and operational t Petrochemicals margins for our products suffered steep declines driven improvements and significant strategic progress by capacity additions in Asia, coupled with lower growth in demand.
in repositioning Downstream, with further progress Our performance 2012 summary in our Whiting renery modernization project t The process safety metrics of loss of primary containment and process WRMP and agreement reached on major safety incident index improved compared with 2010 and 2011 divestments in the US.
see pages 73-74. t In 2012 replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the segment What we do was $2.8 billion, compared with $5.5 billion in 2011.
After adjusting for Our Downstream segment is the productand service-led arm of BP, non-operating items and fair value accounting effects, we delivered a a record underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax of focused on fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals.
We have significant operations in Europe, North America and Asia, and we also manufacture $6.4 billion, compared with $6.0 billion in 2011, despite a significant reduction in the supply and trading contribution see page 74. and market our products across Australasia, southern Africa and Central and South America.
The Downstream segment operates hydrocarbon t We announced that we have agreed to sell our Carson renery in value chains covering three main businesses: fuels, lubricants and California and associated marketing and logistics to Tesoro Corporation petrochemicals.
for an estimated $2.5 billion, and our Texas City renery and associated Fuels The fuels business is made up of regionally based integrated assets to Marathon Petroleum Corporation for up to $2.4 billion.
The fuels value chains FVCs, which include reneries, a number of fuels sale of Texas City was completed on 1 February 2013.
During the year marketing businesses, a global aviation fuels marketing business, and we recognized impairment losses totalling $2.6 billion related to these global oil supply and trading activities.
These businesses sell rened assets held for sale.
petroleum products including gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel and LPG.
t We have made significant progress on WRMP, which remains on track Lubricants Our lubricants business manufactures and markets to be commissioned in the second half of 2013 see page 76. lubricants and related products and services.
It is a global business t As part of our exit from the LPG bulk and bottled business we adding value through brand, technology and relationships.
announced sales of six of the nine country operations to be sold and Petrochemicals Our petrochemicals business produces completed three of these sales during 2012. petrochemicals products at manufacturing locations around the world t In 2012 the lubricants business once again delivered more than $1 billion leveraging proprietary BP technology.
These products are then used by of profit on both a replacement cost and underlying replacement cost others to make vital consumer products such as paints, plastic bottles basis.
This is the fifth consecutive year in which the lubricants business and bres for clothing.
has delivered more than $1 billion of underlying replacement cost profit.
Our strategy t In petrochemicals, we completed the first steps in implementing a new licensing strategy.
We signed licences with two third parties for use of In Downstream we are focused on a consistent set of priorities executed our proprietary technology in world-scale plants in India.
in a systematic and disciplined way.
t We also made further progress on major petrochemicals projects in t These priorities start with safety and include excellent execution, India and China see pages 78-79. portfolio quality and integration and growing margin share through exposure to growth.
Downstream profitability $ billion t Our segment strategy is about winning sustainably in the markets in RC profit before interest and tax Underlying RC profit before interest and tax which we choose to participate.
This means seeking to outperform the 7 best competitor in a region and doing it safely.
6 t Our aim is to invest to strengthen our established positions while 5 maintaining overall capital employed.
Over time we will seek to shift 4 participation and capital employed from established to growth markets.
3 2 t We strive to do this within a stable financial framework delivering 1 attractive returns and growth in earnings and cash ow.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Our market 2012 summary Outlook Global rening marker margin $ bbl t In 2013 we expect rening margins to decline slightly from the relatively 2012 2011 5-year range 2007-2011 high average levels seen in 2012 as further rening capacity comes 40 onstream and demand continues to be weak in many markets.
32 t We expect the financial impact of renery turnarounds in 2013 to be lower than in 2012.
24 t Demand for lubricants in 2013 is expected to be similar to 2012. t We expect the petrochemicals market to remain difficult in 2013 as 16 further new Chinese PTA capacity enters the market.
8 t We expect our segment capital expenditure to be slightly lower in 2013 than in 2012 as we enter the final phase of WRMP.
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 0 a Underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax is not a recognized GAAP measure.
t Globally, average rening margins improved as renery closures and See footnote b on page 34 for further information.
The equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is operational issues reduced product supply.
replacement cost profit before interest and tax.
72 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth With effect from 1 January 2012, we reported the Rening and Marketing production and consequently these grades of crude were less expensive segment as Downstream, with no changes in the composition of the than last year when compared with lighter crudes.
Globally, the impact of Libyan sweet crude returning to the market after the end of the civil war of 2011 was compounded by the advances in Market commentary shale oil production in the US, which reduced the demand-pull of these The weakness in the global economy continued in 2012 see page 12, crude types from abroad.
This made sweet crudes globally less expensive creating a challenging demand environment for our downstream compared with previous years.
OPEC production was also higher than businesses.
2011 and reached around 31.5 million barrels per day, on average.
This In 2012 we saw a significant improvement in rening margins, which helped to offset the loss of Iranian oil following an embargo by the US and were, on average, over $3 per barrel higher than in 2011, driven mainly Europe and markets generally remained well supplied throughout the year.
by supply-side issues experienced by the industry throughout 2012.
Upward pressure on prices, mainly attributable to geopolitical issues such as unrest in the Middle East particularly Iran and Syria and concerns over We track the margin environment by way of a global rening marker the stability of the eurozone were generally offset by a tepid global margin.
Rening margins are a measure of the difference between the economic outlook.
price a renery pays for its inputs crude oil and the market price of its products.
Although reneries produce a variety of petroleum products, In February 2013 BP updated the RMM methodology and regions to we track the margin environment by way of a simplied indicator that reect the changes to our US portfolio after the renery divestments and reects the margins achieved on gasoline and diesel only.
The rening trends in regional crude markets since the RMM was established.
For marker margin RMM is calculated at a regional level using region-specic example, a new Australia region, using Brent crude, replaced the marker crudes and product grades that are then weighted by our rening Singapore RMM, which was based previously on a Dubai Tapis crude capacity in the region to an aggregate BP average RMM.
This change has been made to better reect the types of crude not be representative of the margin achieved by BP in any period because that Australian reners process.
In addition, we changed the marker crude of BPs particular renery congurations and crude and product slates.
for the US Midwest region from Gulf Coast LLS to WTI to reect the Many of our competitors adopt a similar approach as it enables simplied increased availability of the lower-cost crudes in the US midcontinent benchmarking on a like-for-like basis.
The RMM does not include mentioned previously.
estimates of fuel costs or other variable costs.
The effect of this update is that the 2012 BP average RMM will be $ per barrel restated in the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 from $15.0 per Crude marker 2012 2011 2010 barrel as reported here to $18.2 per barrel.
Rening marker margin RMM The global lubricants market continued to be challenging in 2012 as a US West Coast Alaska North result of economic slowdown and low demand growth.
The automotive Slope ANS 17.4 13.6 13.1 sector has been squeezed by pressure on real incomes, which has US Gulf Coast Mars 16.1 11.9 10.2 resulted in demand for new passenger vehicles in the EU falling 8.2% in US Midwest Light Louisiana 2012.
Industrial demand has also been under pressure from weak Sweet LLS 10.3 7.5 6.0 manufacturing production.
Lubricants base oil prices were, however, Northwest Europe lower than in 2011, which helped alleviate some of the downward Brent 16.1 11.9 10.4 pressure on margins.
Mediterranean Azeri Light 12.7 9.0 8.8 Singapore Dubai Tapis blend 15.3 14.6 10.7 Compared with 2011, there was a sharply deteriorating business environment for the focused group of petrochemicals products that BP BP average RMM 15.0 11.6 10.0 produces.
Substantial capacity additions in Asia in combination with global demand slowdown meant a deterioration of both puried terephthalic acid The RMMs for 2012 were higher than 2011 in all the regions that we PTA and paraxylene PX margins with PTA margins at very low levels.
The global BP RMM averaged $15.0 bbl compared with the The petrochemicals margin environment has tended to be cyclical in the 2011 RMM of $11.6 bbl.
Higher margins were mainly attributable to the past, with times of high margins during periods of demand increases and rening capacity gap left by renery closures on the US east coast and in economic growth leading to investment in new capacity to meet this Europe, removing nearly 1.8 million barrels per day of rened products demand, followed by periods of lower margins as this new capacity from the market at the peak of the closures.
Rening margins tend to comes onstream.
2012 has represented a downward cycle and although follow a seasonal pattern in which they usually peak in the second quarter by the end of 2012 there were some signs of recovery, we expect the and then decline through the rest of the year.
In 2012, however, the peak market to remain difficult in 2013 as further Chinese capacity additions occurred in the third quarter as a result of unplanned renery unit outages enter the market.
and closures combined with hurricane activity in the US Gulf Coast and low product inventories.
Industry-wide utilization rates were around the By contrast, competitors who have significant production of ethylene, same level as 2011, but signicantly lower than the five-year average, olens, and derivatives in the US have seen advantage through the low mostly driven by the previously mentioned renery closures.
This has resulted in many ethylene crackers being converted from heavy feeds liquids priced with crude oil to light feeds These restrictions on supply were partially offset by lower demand for gas, priced against US natural gas resulting in strong margins for these petroleum products in the OECD.
This demand reduction was driven by players.
low economic growth, increased blending of biofuels and increased car eet efficiencies.
In addition there have been changes in consumer 2012 performance behaviour such as a long-term decline in demand for gasoline and growth Safety performance in diesel demand in Europe.
Nonetheless, higher rening margins were Safe, reliable and compliant operations remain the top priority within available in the year due to growth in non-OECD countries demand for oil Downstream.
This is underpinned by the systematic implementation of products, which attracted gasoline and diesel exports from the regions in BPs operating management system OMS by all entities.
See Safety on which BP operates.
pages 46-50 for further information on safety and OMS.
Our reneries, particularly Toledo and Whiting in the US, benefited from In 2012 the Downstream segment continued the journey to enhance local a location advantage as they were able to access discounted crudes.
systems and processes at our sites in response to OMS.
For example, in Throughout 2012, US midcontinent crudes priced off the West Texas 2012, a programme designed to improve the capability of the workforce Intermediate WTI marker, remained cheaper than waterborne crudes of to identify and mitigate risks within their local OMS was rolled out.
This a similar quality, such as European Brent and Gulf Coast LLS, due to brings specialist coaches and entity teams together to improve safety increased production from shale oil, combined with bottleneck logistical and performance by systematically closing gaps between local work capacity constraints in transporting these crudes to the coast.
Heavy processes and OMS standards and then embeds these improvements Canadian crudes continued to ow into the US as producers ramped up Business review: BP in more depth 73 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 through front-line engagement and training.
We have also focused on Financial and operating performance $ million improving the capability to reduce risk through OMS through the learning 2012 2011 2010 from incidents process.
Drawn from incident investigations and the risk Replacement cost profit before process, targeted high-value learning and learning alert communications a show front-line teams what went wrong or could go wrong, and the interest and tax actions to take to prevent similar incidents from happening at their site.
Fuels 1,385 3,003 2,628 Lubricants 1,276 1,350 1,357 Safety performance is monitored by a suite of input and output metrics, which focus on personal and process safety.
Regrettably, there were two Petrochemicals 185 1,121 1,570 workforce fatalities in 2012.
In India, a contractor fell through a roof sheet 2,846 5,474 5,555 while installing a fall prevention line and, in Scotland, a contractor vehicle Net favourable unfavourable collided with a third-party vehicle resulting in fatal injuries to the contract impact of non-operating items driver.
These tragic events have been fully investigated.
b and fair value accounting effects Two of the key measures used to track process safety are the process Fuels 3,611 640 381 safety incident index PSII, a weighted index that reects both the number Lubricants 9 100 47 and severity of events per 200,000 hours worked and loss of primary Petrochemicals 19 1 338 containment LOPC, a measure of unplanned or uncontrolled releases of 3,601 539 672 material from primary containment.
The PSII has improved by 40% since it Underlying replacement cost profit was established in 2008.
In 2012 it was 0.26 compared with 0.36 in 2011. ac before interest and tax There was also a 40% reduction in the number of LOPC, from 2011 to 2012, falling from 195 in 2011 to 117 in 2012.
In addition, the number of oil Fuels 4,996 3,643 2,247 spills greater than one barrel reduced from 145 in 2011 to 96, however the Lubricants 1,285 1,250 1,404 volume of these spills for 2012 was higher at 0.6 million litres compared Petrochemicals 166 1,120 1,232 with 0.4 million litres in 2011.
6,447 6,013 4,883 d Key process safety metrics 2008-2012 Sales and other operating revenues 346,491 344,116 266,751 number of incidents Capital expenditure and acquisitions 4,130 4,029 5,048 Loss of primary containment incidents Volume spilled thousand barrels per day Process safety incident index e Total renery throughputs 2,354 2,352 2,426 120 % 100 f Rening availability 94.8 94.8 95.0 thousand tonnes 80 g Total petrochemicals production 14,727 14,866 15,594 60 a Income from petrochemicals produced at our Gelsenkirchen and Mlheim sites is reported within the fuels business.
Segment-level overhead expenses are included within the fuels 40 business.
b Fair value accounting effects represent the favourable unfavourable impact relative to 20 managements measure of performance see page 37 for further details.
For Downstream, these arise solely in the fuels business.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 c Underlying replacement cost profit is not a recognized GAAP measure.
See footnote b on Indexed 2008 100 page 34 for information on underlying replacement cost profit.
e Renery throughputs reect crude oil and other feedstock volumes.
We measure our personal safety performance through recordable injury f Rening availability represents Solomon Associates operational availability, which is dened as frequency RIF and days away from work case frequency DAFWCF the percentage of the year that a unit is available for processing after subtracting the annualized as well as the severe vehicle accident rate SVAR.
In 2012 our RIF time lost due to turnaround activity and all planned mechanical, process and regulatory maintenance downtime.
measured by the number of recordable injuries to the BP workforce per g Petrochemicals production includes 1,625kte of petrochemicals produced at our Gelsenkirchen 200,000 hours worked was 0.33, better than the 2011 rate of 0.37.
The and Mlheim sites in Germany for which the income is reported in our fuels business.
2012 DAFWCF, a subset of the RIF that measures the number of cases where an employee misses one or more days from work per 200,000 Replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the year ended hours worked was 0.09, compared with 0.11 in 2011.
31 December 2012 was $2,846 million, compared with $5,474 million for the previous year.
The full-year results included a net loss for non-operating Driving safety has continued to be an area of focus in 2012 with the items of $3,174 million, compared with a net loss of $602 million in 2011. formation of a driving safety team to facilitate how we manage the risks The non-operating items in 2012 mainly related to impairments.
See associated with driving in an effective and consistent manner.
Despite this, a page 37 for further information on non-operating items.
In addition, fair the severe vehicle accident rate increased in 2012 to a rate of 0.16 value accounting effects had an unfavourable impact of $427 million, compared with 0.11 in 2011. compared with a favourable impact of $63 million in 2011.
See page 37 a The severe vehicle accident rate SVAR is the number of vehicle incidents that result in death, for further information on fair value accounting effects.
injury, a spill, a vehicle rollover, or serious or disabling vehicle damage per one million kilometres travelled.
After adjusting for non-operating items and fair value accounting effects, Downstream reported record underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax in 2012 of $6,447 million.
The fuels business delivered an underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax of $4,996 million for the year: compared with $3,643 million in 2011.
This reects strong operations that enabled us to capture the favourable rening environment, partly offset by a reduction in the supply and trading contribution for the year compared with 2011.
The following table summarizes the volume, by region, of crude oil and feedstock processed by BP for its own account and for third parties.
Utilization data is also summarized.
74 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth thousand barrels per day The following table sets out oil sales volumes by type for the past three a Renery throughputs 2012 2011 2010 years.
Marketing sales volumes were 3,213mb d, slightly lower than 2011, US 1,310 1,277 1,350 principally reecting reduced demand in some OECD markets and simplication of our portfolio.
Europe 751 771 775 Rest of World 293 304 301 thousand barrels per day Rened product volumes 2012 2011 2010 Total 2,354 2,352 2,426 a Marketing sales 3,213 3,311 3,445 Renery capacity utilization b Trading supply sales 2,444 2,465 2,482 Crude distillation capacity b Total rened product sales 5,657 5,776 5,927 at 31 December 2,681 2,679 2,667 c c Crude oil 1,518 1,532 1,658 Renery utilization 88% 88% 91% Total oil sales 7,175 7,308 7,585 US 89% 87% 93% a Europe 89% 91% 91% Marketing sales include sales to service stations, end-consumers, bulk buyers and jobbers i. e. third parties who own networks of a number of service stations and small resellers.
Rest of World 80% 84% 84% b Trading supply sales are sales to large unbranded resellers and other oil companies.
c a Crude oil sales relate to transactions executed by our integrated supply and trading function, Renery throughputs reect crude oil and other feedstock volumes.
b primarily for optimizing crude oil supplies to our reneries and in other trading.
Seventy-three Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is dened as the highest average thousand barrels per day relate to revenues reported by Upstream.
sustained unit rate for a consecutive 30-day period.
c Renery utilization is throughput thousands of barrels day divided by crude distillation capacity, Prior years comparative financial information expressed as a percentage.
Replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the year ended Overall renery throughputs were at a similar level to 2011, notwithstanding 31 December 2011 was $5,474 million, compared with $5,555 million for the planned outage of the largest of the crude units at our Whiting renery the previous year.
The 2011 results included a net loss for non-operating in the fourth quarter.
items of $602 million, compared with a net gain of $630 million in 2010.
The non-operating items in 2011 mainly related to impairment charges The lubricants business delivered an underlying replacement cost profit relating to our disposal programme, partially offset by gains on disposal before interest and tax of $1,285 million for the year, compared with see page 37 for further information on non-operating items.
In addition, $1,250 million in 2011, reecting continued robust performance despite challenging levels of demand.
This is the fifth consecutive year in which fair value accounting effects had a favourable impact of $63 million, the lubricants business has delivered more than $1 billion of underlying compared with a favourable impact of $42 million in 2010 see page 37 replacement cost profit.
for further information on fair value accounting effects.
The petrochemical business delivered an underlying replacement cost In the fuels business, we were able to capture the benets available in profit before interest and tax of $166 million for the year, compared with 2011 from BPs location advantage in accessing WTI-based crude grades.
$1,120 million in 2011, reecting weakness in margins for BPs mix of Compared with 2010, the result also benefited from a higher rening products compared with last year resulting from recent capacity additions margin environment and a stronger supply and trading contribution.
These in Asia and lower demand growth than in 2011.
Our petrochemicals benets were partly offset by a signicantly higher level of turnarounds in production was lower than 2011 at 14,727 thousand tonnes compared 2011 than 2010 and negative impacts from increased relative sweet crude with 14,866 in 2011 as a result of decisions to reduce production for prices in Europe and Australia and the weather-related power outages in commercial reasons.
2012 was the highest ever underlying replacement cost profit delivery in Performance in our lubricants business in 2011 was impacted by the Downstream segment reecting the fourth consecutive year of significant base oil price increases and weaker demand.
These impacts underlying replacement cost profit growth.
In March 2010 we outlined an were partly offset by supply-chain efficiencies and our ability to recover opportunity to deliver an additional $2 billion of performance improvement the increased cost of goods in the market.
However, despite better operational In our petrochemicals business, compared with 2010, the 2011 result reliability and high utilization rates that allowed us to capture more of the available margin, and improvements in our cost efficiency, we were was negatively impacted by weakening market conditions as the year unable to fully deliver this level of improvement principally due to a progressed as additional Asian capacity came onstream during the year significant reduction in the supply and trading contribution in 2012 at a time of weaker demand.
This was somewhat offset by the strength compared with a particularly strong performance in 2009. in aromatics margins and volumes in the first half of the year.
a This performance improvement measure was based on comparing Downstreams underlying The replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the year ended replacement cost profit before interest and tax for 2009 with that of 2012, after adjusting for the 31 December 2010 of $5,555 million included a net gain for non-operating impact of changes in the rening margin and petrochemicals environment including energy items of $630 million, mainly relating to gains on disposal, partly offset costs, foreign exchange impacts and price-lag effects for crude and product purchases.
This adjusted measure of underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax is non-GAAP.
In addition, fair value accounting effects We believe the measure is useful to investors because it is one that is viewed and tracked by had a favourable impact of $42 million relative to managements measure management as an important indicator of segment performance.
The primary additional factors contributing to the Sales and other operating revenues in 2012 were $346 billion, a similar increase in replacement cost profit before interest and tax compared level to the $344 billion in 2011, and higher than the $267 billion in 2010. with 2009 were improved operational performance in the fuels value This increase reects higher prices almost offset by lower volumes and chains FVCs, continued strong operational performance in lubricants foreign exchange losses.
and petrochemicals, and further cost efficiencies, as well as a more favourable rening environment.
Against very good operational delivery, $ million the results were impacted by a signicantly lower contribution from 2012 2011 2010 supply and trading compared with 2009.
Sale of crude oil through spot and term contracts 56,383 57,055 44,290 Our businesses Marketing, spot and term sales Fuels of rened products 275,920 273,940 209,221 The fuels businesses is made up of seven regionally based FVCs, a Other sales and operating number of regionally focused fuels marketing businesses, a global aviation revenues 14,188 13,121 13,240 fuels marketing business and our global oil supply and trading activities.
Sales and other operating These fuels businesses sell rened petroleum products including a revenues 346,491 344,116 266,751 gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel and LPG.
Fuels value chains The FVCs seek to optimize the activities of our assets across the supply chain: crude delivery to the reneries: manufacture of high-quality fuels: Business review: BP in more depth 75 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 distribution through pipeline and terminal infrastructure: and marketing addition, we have announced the sale of our South West FVC including and sales to our customers on a regional basis.
This integration, together the Carson renery in California, ARCO network and related logistics with a focus on excellent execution and cost management as well as a assets in the region to Tesoro Corporation for $2.5 billion and we expect strong brand, market presence and customer base, are key to our financial to close this sale by the middle of 2013 subject to regulatory and other performance.
The FVC strategy focuses on large-scale, feedstock-advantaged, highly Strategic investments in our reneries are focused on securing the safety upgraded, dual-fuel-capable, well-located reneries integrated into and reliability of our assets while improving the relative unit margins to advantaged logistics and marketing.
Consequently, in the US, we are in capture capability versus the competition.
The most important of these the process of completing renery sales that will roughly halve our US strategic investments under way is the Whiting renery modernization rening capacity through the sale of our Texas City renery which project WRMP, which we expect will allow the capture of additional completed on 1 February 2013 and our Carson renery and related margin through the processing of a greater proportion of heavy crudes.
marketing and logistics assets see renery table below.
The Texas City This project made significant progress in 2012 as we entered the a renery was not strongly integrated into BPs marketing assets and has heaviest eld construction phase.
The new crude oil unit, coker, limited access to logistics and tankage exibility.
The Carson renery is upgraded sulphur recovery complex and gasoil hydrotreater all gasoline biased and would need investment in logistics and or advanced towards their targeted start-up dates in 2013.
The largest of conguration to upgrade capability.
This portfolio re-shaping will shift the the renerys crude units, which processed sweet crude, was taken balance of our US rening portfolio to northern tier reneries able to out of service in early November.
This outage will allow construction of access advantaged, US mid-continent and Canadian crudes and utilize a a replacement crude distillation unit, and will facilitate demolition of the signicantly greater proportion of heavy crudes.
existing unit, thereby enabling the expected start-up of the WRMP In our remaining FVCs, we believe we have a portfolio of well-located project in the second half of 2013.
BP is temporarily redeploying reneries, integrated with strong marketing positions offering the potential rening and technical resources from around the world to assist with for improvement and growth.
the start-up of the new units.
a We will retain the petrochemicals manufacturing plants at Texas City.
We continue to invest in developing capability to produce cleaner fuels to meet the requirements of our customers and their communities.
For Rening example, we are currently investing in a new hydrotreater unit and At 31 December 2012, we owned or had a share in 16 reneries hydrogen plant at our Cherry Point renery.
This project is designed to producing rened petroleum products that we supply to retail and allow the renery to produce fuels that meet ultra-low sulphur diesel commercial customers.
On 1 February 2013 we completed the sale of the ULSD standards for rail and marine diesel customers.
In addition, the Texas City renery and a portion of our retail and logistics network in the new hydrogen plant is designed to improve operation of naphtha south-east US to Marathon Petroleum Corporation for up to $2.4 billion.
In reforming units at the renery.
The project has progressed steadily The following tables summarize the BP groups interests in reneries and average daily crude distillation capacities as at 31 December 2012. thousand barrels per day a Crude distillation capacities b Group interest BP Renery Fuels value chain % Total share US c California Carson US South West 100.0 266 266 Washington Cherry Point US North West 100.0 234 234 Indiana Whiting US East of Rockies 100.0 413 413 Ohio Toledo US East of Rockies 50.0 160 80 c Texas Texas City 100.0 475 475 Total US 1,548 1,468 Europe d Germany Bayernoil Rhine 22.5 217 49 Gelsenkirchen Rhine 50.0 265 132 d Karlsruhe Rhine 12.0 322 39 Lingen Rhine 100.0 95 95 d Schwedt Rhine 18.8 239 45 Netherlands Rotterdam Rhine 100.0 377 377 Spain Castelln Iberia 100.0 110 110 Total Europe 1,625 847 Rest of World Australia Bulwer Australia New Zealand 100.0 102 102 Kwinana Australia New Zealand 100.0 146 146 d New Zealand Whangarei Australia New Zealand 23.7 118 28 d South Africa Durban Southern Africa 50.0 180 90 Total Rest of World 546 366 Total 3,719 2,681 Capacity relating to assets held for sale 741 Total capacity post-divestment 1,940 a Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is dened as the highest average sustained unit rate for a consecutive 30-day period.
b BP share of equity, which is not necessarily the same as BP share of processing entitlements.
c Renery classied as assets held for sale at 31 December 2012. d Indicates reneries not operated by BP.
76 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth through 2012 and we expect to complete construction and commissioning Number of retail sites operated under a BP brand a b by the middle of 2013.
Retail sites 2012 2011 2010 US 10,100 11,300 11,300 In addition, we completed construction and started up a new, higher Europe 8,300 8,200 8,400 efficiency naphtha reformer at our joint venture Toledo renery in March 2013.
Rest of World 2,300 2,300 2,400 Total 20,700 21,800 22,100 In addition to rened petroleum products, we also blend and market biofuels in our FVCs.
In 2012 we blended over 7 billion litres of biofuels a The number of retail sites includes sites not operated by BP but instead operated by dealers, into nished product in our FVCs, mainly in Europe and the US.
jobbers, franchisees or brand licensees that operate under a BP brand.
These may move to or from the BP brand as their fuel supply or brand licence agreements expire and are renegotiated Biogasoline bioethanol and biodiesel hydrogenated vegetable oils and in the normal course of business.
Retail sites are primarily branded BP, ARCO and Aral.
fatty acid methyl esters continue to grow in volume, primarily in Europe b Excludes our interest in equity-accounted entities that are dual-branded.
and the US, as regulatory requirements demand heavier blending levels.
Our response is to continue to develop blend capabilities and to work with As at 31 December 2012, BPs worldwide retail network consisted of regulators, biofuels supply chains and other stakeholders to improve the some 20,700 sites across the US, Europe, Australia, New Zealand and sustainability of the biofuels we blend and supply.
This is a reduction of about 1,100 since 2011, primarily due to a reduction in the US where we are focusing on higher throughput Developing new rening technology is also an important part of our sites.
These retail sites are primarily branded BP, ARCO and Aral.
Our rening and logistics technology team is focused on expect the number of branded retail sites to fall by around 800 in 2013 in optimizing crude oil selection, utilization and renery processing capability.
the US south west, as we dispose of the ARCO brand as part of the sale They develop and deploy technology and apply knowledge and expertise of the US South West FVC to Tesoro Corporation.
BP intends to license to support BPs rening and logistics assets.
They drive excellence in back the ARCO brand post divestment for use in the North West FVC.
BP operational and commercial performance see Technology pages 57-59. will, however, retain ownership of the ampm convenience store brand The London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games showcased BPs after the disposal and franchise it to Tesoro Corporation for use in the expertise and technology leadership in biofuels through the development south-west US.
of three advanced biofuel formulations lignocellulosic ethanol, diesel from Supply and trading sugar and biobutanol from sugar.
These new formulations blended with BPs integrated supply and trading function is responsible for delivering BP Ultimate, fuelled the London 2012 Olympic eet.
We continue to work value across the overall crude and oil products supply chain.
This structure proactively with governments and regulatory bodies in all the countries in enables the optimization of BPs FVCs to maintain a single interface with which we operate to develop practical and effective solutions to meet the oil trading markets and to operate with a single set of trading local and regional biofuel mandates.
compliance processes, systems and controls.
The oil trading business Logistics and marketing including support functions has trading ofces in Europe, the US and Downstream of our reneries, we operate an advantaged infrastructure Asia and employs around 1,800 people.
This enables the function to and logistics network which includes pipelines, storage terminals and road maintain a presence in the more actively traded regions of the global oil or rail tankers, and seek to drive excellence in operational and transactional markets in order to gain an overall understanding of the supply and processes, and deliver compelling customer offers in the various markets demand forces across this market.
It has a two-fold strategic purpose in in which we operate.
We supply fuel and related convenience services to retail consumers First, it seeks to identify the best markets and prices for our crude oil, through company-owned and franchised retail sites, as well as other source optimal feedstocks for our reneries, and provide competitive channels, including wholesalers and jobbers.
We supply commercial supply for our marketing businesses.
In addition, where renery customers within the transport and industrial sectors.
We also focus on production is surplus to marketing requirements or can be sourced more creating sustainable, differentiated high performance, energy efficient, competitively, it is sold into the market.
Wherever possible, the group will cleaner and competitive fuels through our fuels technology group.
We look to optimize value across the supply chain.
For example, BP will often continue to support our partners and customers in delivering greater sell its own crude and purchase alternative crudes from third parties for its energy efficiency and reduced CO emissions in both established and 2 reneries where this will provide incremental margin.
emerging markets and we are working on new fuels that deliver improved Second, the function seeks to create and capture incremental trading fuel economy and compatibility with the latest engine technology and opportunities.
It enters into the full range of exchange-traded commodity with biofuel components.
derivatives, over-the-counter OTC contracts and spot and term contracts Our retail network is largely concentrated in Europe and the US, but also described in Certain denitions commodity trading contracts on page 98. has established operations in Australasia and southern Africa.
We have In order to facilitate the generation of trading margin from arbitrage, developed networks in China in two separate joint ventures, one with blending and storage opportunities, it also owns and contracts for storage PetroChina and the other with China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation and transport capacity.
The group has developed a risk governance Sinopec.
These two joint ventures operate over 700 dual-branded sites framework which seeks to manage and oversee the financial risks in China.
We have also licensed the BP brand for use on retail sites to associated with this trading activity, see Financial statements Note 26 Hellenic Petroleum, which operates around 1,000 BP-branded retail sites on page 220. in Greece, and to Delek, which operates around 400 BP-branded retail The groups trading activities in oil are managed by the integrated supply sites in France.
In order to carry out the unique delegations from the The following table shows the number of BP-branded retail sites by BP group, the integrated supply and trading function operates and region.
Some of these retail sites include a convenience store, which enforces a robust system of internal control.
The internal control systems offers consumers a range of food, drink and other consumables and operated by the regional business leads are augmented by internal services in a convenient and innovative manner.
The convenience offer support functions that provide independent oversight, including product includes brands such as Wild Bean Caf and Petit Bistro and includes control, risk, trade completion, and accounting and reporting.
They are partnerships with leading retailers such as Marks & Spencer in the UK.
further supported by regional and group ethics and compliance and group internal audit.
Aviation Our global aviation business, Air BP, is one of the worlds largest and best-known aviation fuels suppliers, serving many major commercial airlines as well as the general aviation and military sectors.
We have marketing sales in excess of 460,000 barrels per day.
Air BPs strategic aim is to grow its position in the core locations of Europe, the US, Australasia and the Middle East, while focusing its portfolio towards airports that offer Business review: BP in more depth 77 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 long-term competitive advantage.
In line with this strategy, in the second our relationships with customers so that our products and services are quarter of 2012, we completed the acquisition of Shell and Cosan Industria delivered in a manner that best meets their needs.
e Commercios interests in significant aviation fuels assets at seven In lubricants technology we apply our expertise to create quality lubricants Brazilian airports, which is an important growth market.
and high performance uids for on-road, off-road, air, sea and industrial applications globally.
We continue to support our partners and customers LPG We are in the process of exiting our global LPG marketing business, which in delivering high-performance lubricants that deliver greater energy efficiency and reduced CO emissions in both established and emerging sells bulk and bottled LPG products, in order to simplify our marketing 2 operations.
We will retain focus on LPG where it is deeply integrated into markets.
our wholesale and autogas sectors in order to optimize renery and retail During 2012 we launched a Performance Biolubes product line, adding a operations.
As at 31 December 2012, the sales of the LPG business in range of bio-based metalworking uids and lubricants for use in cutting, three countries out of nine had been completed and a further three grinding, forming and maintenance lubrication.
This new technology announced and the integration of the wholesale and autogas sectors into underpins the Castrol brands commitment to developing environmentally the FVCs is complete.
In addition, we introduced 80BN the BN refers to the base number, a new product for the marine market that uses Lubricants advanced technology to optimize the performance of lubricants in Our lubricants business manufactures and markets lubricants and related slow-steaming marine engines and further strengthens our credentials in products and services to the automotive, industrial, marine, aviation and technology leadership.
In 2012 we also introduced a co-branded product energy markets across the world.
Distinctive brands, cutting-edge with Ford to support their new range of environmentally friendly engines.
technology and sustaining customer relationships are the cornerstone of our approach.
Our key brands are Castrol, BP and Aral.
Castrol is a Our focus is on developing premium products, and we often work alongside original equipment manufacturers in doing this.
The new Castrol recognized brand worldwide and we believe it provides us with a significant competitive advantage.
In technology, we apply our expertise EDGE professional range was launched to the franchised workshop market in Europe and Africa in 2012. to create quality lubricants and high performance uids for customers in on-road, off-road, air, sea and industrial applications globally.
Our lubricants businesses continued to grow the proportion of total sales We divide our lubricants business up into five customer sectors: resulting from premium product sales: in 2012 the percentage of premium sales was 39% compared with 37% in 2011 and 34% in 2010. automotive, marine, industrial, aviation and energy: t The automotive sector, which accounts for more than two-thirds of our Petrochemicals lubricants sales, serves the needs of land-based vehicles including cars, Our global petrochemicals business has operations in the US, Europe trucks, motorcycles, buses, tractors, earth movers and other vehicles.
The business buys a range of feedstocks for input into our We supply lubricants and other related products and services to manufacturing units, the majority of which have been built and operate intermediate customers such as retailers and workshops.
These, in utilizing our proprietary technology.
We manufacture and market four turn, serve end consumers such as car, truck and motorcycle owners.
main product lines: t The marine sector serves users of river and sea-going vessels.
BPs t Puried terephthalic acid PTA.
marine lubricants business is one of the largest global suppliers of t Paraxylene PX.
lubricants to the marine industry, with a global presence in over 800 ports.
t Our industrial sector serves customers who run or maintain plant and t Olens and derivatives O&D.
equipment and it is a leading supplier to those sectors of the market We also produce a number of other speciality petrochemicals products.
involved in the manufacturing of automobiles, trucks, machinery Our strategy is to leverage our industry-leading technology in the markets components and steel.
in which we choose to participate, to grow the business and to deliver t Our aviation sector serves aircraft operators and maintenance industry-leading returns.
New investments are targeted principally in the industries.
In the aviation industry, we estimate that we are the higher-growth Asian markets.
We both own and operate assets, and have lubricants supplier for around 40% of the jet engines of the worlds also invested in a number of joint ventures in Asia, where our partners are commercial airlines.
leading companies within their domestic market.
t Our energy sector serves the oil and gas and power industries.
In the PTA is a raw material used in the manufacture of polyesters used in bres, oil and gas industry we supply some of worlds largest production and textiles and lm, and polyethylene terephthalate PET bottles.
production requires PX as a feedstock, which we produce in the US and We look to market and sell our products across the world.
We sell Europe and buy in Asia.
PTA is then reacted with glycol to produce products direct to our customers in around 45 countries and use approved polyester chips or bres, which are in turn used to produce PET bottles, local distributors for other geographies.
Approximately 40% of our polyester bres and various speciality products, including protective employees are located in non-OECD markets and around 20% are located screens for computers and TVs.
PX production is primarily from the mixed in China and India alone.
We are particularly strong in Europe and key Asia xylene stream produced in a reformer within a renery.
In 2012 approximately 50% of the Acetic acid is a versatile intermediate chemical used in a variety of lubricants business replacement cost profit before interest and tax was generated from non-OECD markets.
products such as paints, adhesives and solvents, as well as in the production of PTA.
In producing acetic acid, we purchase methanol and We have chosen not to participate at scale in base oil or additives either make or buy carbon monoxide CO. CO can be produced from a manufacturing.
We are, however, one of the largest purchasers of base variety of hydrocarbon feedstocks, including natural gas, naphtha, fuel oil oil in the market.
We participate in blending in locations where scale and competitive Our O&D business is based in China and is focused on serving the advantage can be sustained, or where customer service or security of Chinese market.
The SECCO joint venture is between BP, Sinopec and supply are of critical importance and otherwise difficult to secure.
We its subsidiary, Shanghai Petrochemical Company.
BP also co-owns one have a network of 25 wholly owned and operated blending plants other naphtha cracker site outside Asia, which is integrated with our worldwide and joint ownership in five others operated by third parties.
Gelsenkirchen renery in Germany and this has an associated solvents Our participation in the value chain is focused on areas of competitive plant at Mlheim, Germany.
These fall into three main areas: the At 31 December 2012, the petrochemicals business ran 15 manufacturing development of formulations and the application of cutting-edge sites including our joint ventures as shown in the following table, and we technology: developing product brands and communicating the benets have two petrochemicals plants Gelsenkirchen and Mlheim, which are that our products provide to our customers: and building and extending managed by the fuels business as they utilize feedstock from our 78 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Gelsenkirchen renery.
In October 2012 we sold our interest in BP Sichuan Vinylon Works SVW, to explore the development of an Chemicals Malaysia Sdn Bhd BPCM, which manufactures PTA with a integrated 1,4-butanediol BDO and acetic acid project in Chongqing.
The production capacity of 610,000 tonnes per annum, to Reliance Global proposed 200,000-tonnes per annum BDO plant will be built by SKGC and Holdings Pte.
SVW while the 600,000-tonnes per annum acetic acid plant will be built by our existing acetic acid joint venture in Chongqing.
The units in the Our portfolio is underpinned with proprietary technology and leading cost integrated project are planned to be inter-dependent: the BDO plant will positions allowing BP assets to remain competitive against the newest supply acetylene off-gas to the acetic acid plant, which, in return, will world-scale units being built in China.
These capacity additions and supply hydrogen to the BDO plant.
This integrated approach is expected technology advances have resulted in a sharp fall in margins resulting in to enhance the competitiveness of the complex.
losses for the older, less efficient producers.
We continue to make progress on our joint study with IndianOil Corp IOC Our technology team develops, deploys and optimizes advantaged to invest in a 1-million tonnes per annum acetic acid plant in Gujarat, India, chemicals technology to advance the competitiveness of the installed and have recently completed a renery integration study to optimize the asset base and deliver competitively advantaged projects to access integration benets of the proposed project with IOCs renery.
We plan to continue to deploy our advantaged technology in new asset platforms to access the demand centres of Asia and advantaged In 2012, we created a new revenue stream in petrochemicals through feedstock sources.
third-party licensing of our proprietary PX and PTA technology with two licences being sold in 2012 for use in large-scale plants in India.
We also In 2012 we progressed our 1.25-million tonnes per annum PTA project in secured a 15-year methanol off-take agreement with Lake Charless Zhuhai, China.
Below ground preparation work is now complete.
We also Petcoke Gasication project in Louisiana, US, which will place us well to furthered our growth strategy in Asia by signing a memorandum of access advantaged feedstock supply to our acetic acid business.
understanding with SK Global Chemical Co. Ltd SKGC and Sinopec a b Petrochemicals production capacity BP share of capacity Group interest thousand tonnes c Geographical area Site Product % per annum US Cooper River Puried terephthalic acid PTA 100.0 1,300 d Decatur PTA 100.0 1,000 Paraxylene PX 100.0 1,100 e e Texas City Acetic acid 100.0 600 PX 100.0 1,300 Metaxylene 100.0 100 5,400 Europe d UK Hull Acetic acid 100.0 500 Acetic anhydride 100.0 200 Belgium Geel PTA 100.0 1,300 PX 100.0 700 f bg Germany Gelsenkirchen Olens and derivatives 50.0 to 61.0 1,800 f b Mlheim Solvents 50.0 100 4,600 Rest of World b China Caojing Olens and derivatives 50.0 3,300 b Chongqing Acetic acid 51.0 200 b Esters 51.0 100 b Nanjing Acetic acid 50.0 300 h Zhuhai PTA 85.0 1,800 b Indonesia Merak PTA 50.0 300 b South Korea Ulsan Acetic acid 51.0 300 b Vinyl acetate monomer 34.0 100 b Malaysia Kertih Acetic acid 70.0 400 b Taiwan Kaohsiung PTA 61.4 900 b Taichung PTA 61.4 500 b Mai Liao Acetic acid 50.0 200 8,400 Total BP share of capacity at 31 December 2012 18,400 a Petrochemicals production capacity is the proven maximum sustainable daily rate MSDR multiplied by the number of days in the respective period, where MSDR is the highest average daily rate ever achieved over a sustained period.
b Includes BP share of equity-accounted entities, as indicated.
c Capacities are shown to the nearest hundred thousand tonnes per annum.
d These sites have capacity under 100,000 tonnes per annum for a speciality product e. g. naphthalene dicarboxylate and ethylidene diacetate.
e Group interest is quoted at 100%, reecting the capacity entitlement, which is marketed by BP.
This capacity is not part of the renery divestment.
f Due to the integrated nature of these plants with our Gelsenkirchen renery, the income and expenditure of these plants is managed and reported through the fuels business.
g Group interest varies by product.
h BP Zhuhai Chemical Company Ltd is a subsidiary of BP, the capacity of which is shown above at 100%.
Business review: BP in more depth 79 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Financial and operating performance TNK-BP $ million 2012 2011 2010 Since 2003, BP has owned 50% of TNK-BP, an integrated oil company.
a profit before interest and tax 3,370 4,185 2,617 The other 50% is owned by the consortium of Alfa Access Renova AAR.
Inventory holding gains losses 3 51 TNK-BPs major assets are held by OAO TNK-BP Holding.
Other assets of Replacement cost profit before TNK-BP include OAO Slavneft, an equity-accounted joint venture with interest and tax 3,373 Gazpromneft in Russia, and TNK Overseas Ltd, which holds its major 4,134 2,617 non-Russian interests.
Globally, Net charge credit for b TNK-BP is the tenth largest non-fully state-owned oil company as non-operating items 246 measured by both SEC proved reserves and hydrocarbon production.
It Underlying replacement cost profit has upstream interests in Russia, Brazil, Venezuela and Vietnam, which c before interest and tax 3,127 4,134 2,617 produced approximately 2 million barrels of oil equivalent per day gross a The TNK-BP segment includes equity-accounted earnings from associates, in which all amounts TNK-BP in both 2012 and 2011.
TNK-BP also has downstream interests in shown relate to BPs 50% share in TNK-BP, as follows: five reneries in Russia and one in Ukraine, with total throughput of profit before interest and tax 4,405 5,992 3,866 approximately 656mb d in 2012 compared with 711mb d in 2011.
It has Finance costs 84 132 128 over 1,500 branded retail stations in Russia and Ukraine.
Taxation 979 1,333 913 Minority interest 356 342 208 From 1 January 2012, BPs investment in TNK-BP has been reported as a Net income 2,986 4,185 2,617 separate operating segment, reecting the way in which the investment Inventory holding gains losses, net of tax 3 51 has been managed.
Net income on a replacement cost basis 2,989 4,134 2,617 Following the announcement of the agreement described below, BPs b Net charge credit for non-operating items, investment in TNK-BP met the criteria to be classied as an asset held for net of tax 138 Net income on an underlying replacement sale.
Consequently, BP ceased accounting for its interest in TNK-BP using c cost basis 3,127 4,134 2,617 the equity method from 22 October 2012.
BP will continue to report its b share of TNK-BPs production and reserves until the transaction Disclosure of non-operating items for TNK-BP began in 2012. c Underlying replacement cost profit is not a recognized GAAP measure.
page 34 for information on underlying replacement cost profit.
Denitive agreements with Rosneft 2012 2011 2010 Having agreed heads of terms on 22 October 2012, BP announced on d 22 November that it, Rosneft and Rosneftegaz the Russian state-owned Production net of royalties BP share parent company of Rosneft had signed denitive and binding sale and Crude oil thousand barrels purchase agreements SPAs for the sale of BPs 50% interest in TNK-BP per day 876 871 856 to Rosneft, and for BPs further investment in Rosneft.
The transaction Natural gas million cubic feet will consist of three tranches: per day 784 710 640 e t BP will sell its 50% shareholding in TNK-BP to Rosneft for cash Total hydrocarbons thousand consideration of $25.4 billion which includes a dividend of $0.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent per day 1,012 994 967 received from TNK-BP in December 2012 and Rosneft shares d Estimated net proved reserves representing a 3.04% stake in Rosneft TNK-BP SPA.
net of royalties BP share t BP will use $4.8 billion of the cash consideration to acquire a further f Crude oil million barrels 4,540 4,305 3,750 5.66% stake in Rosneft from the Russian government at a price of g Natural gas billion cubic feet 4,492 2,881 2,359 $8 per share representing a premium of 12% to the Rosneft share f g Total hydrocarbons million closing price on the bid date of 18 October 2012. barrels of oil equivalent 5,315 4,802 4,157 t BP will use $8.3 billion of the cash consideration to acquire a further $ per barrel Average oil marker prices 9.8% stake in Rosneft from a Rosneft subsidiary at a price of Urals Northwest Europe CIF 110.19 $8 per share.
109.08 78.26 Russian domestic oil 53.98 49.57 36.96 The SPAs were signed after the Russian government approved BPs purchase of the 5.66% stake in Rosneft.
On completion, the net result of d BP continues to report its share of TNK-BPs production and reserves until the transaction to sell the overall transaction is that BP will receive $12.3 billion in cash including its 50% share to Rosneft closes.
e $0.7 billion of TNK-BP dividends received by BP in December 2012 and Expressed in thousands of barrels of oil equivalent per day mboe d. Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at 5.8 billion cubic feet 1 million barrels.
will acquire an 18.5% shareholding in Rosneft.
Combined with BPs f Includes 328 million barrels 310 million barrels at 31 December 2011 and 254 million barrels existing 1.25% shareholding, this will result in BP owning 19.75% of at 31 December 2010 in respect of the 7.35% minority interest in TNK-BP 7.37% at Rosneft.
It is expected that the TNK-BP sale and the further investment in 31 December 2011 and 7.03% at 31 December 2010. g Includes 270 billion cubic feet 174 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2011 and 137 billion cubic Rosneft will complete on the same day.
At this level of ownership, BP feet at 31 December 2010 in respect of the 6.17% minority interest in TNK-BP 6.27% at expects to be able to account for its share of Rosnefts earnings, 31 December 2011 and 5.89% at 31 December 2010. production and reserves on an equity basis.
In due course BP expects to h have two seats on Rosnefts nine-person main board.
Replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the TNK-BP segment was $3,373 million, compared with $4,134 million in 2011.
These amounts Completion is subject to certain customary closing conditions, including include BPs equity-accounted share of TNK-BPs earnings.
In 2012, governmental, regulatory and anti-trust approvals, and is anticipated to equity-accounted earnings are included from 1 January to 21 October, occur during the first half of 2013.
Under the terms of the SPAs, BP has after which our investment was classied as an asset held for sale and agreed not to dispose of any of the Rosneft shares acquired in the therefore equity accounting ceased.
transaction for at least 360 days following completion.
In addition, the h TNK-BP SPA contains remedial provisions that take effect if certain Under equity accounting, BPs share of TNK-BPs earnings after interest and tax has been included in the BP group income statement within profit before interest and tax.
80 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth The 2012 result also included a net non-operating gain of $246 million, The Lan Do eld is expected to bring 2 billion cubic metres 70 billion primarily dividend income from TNK-BP of $709 million, partly offset by a cubic feet of gas to market annually.
charge of $325 million to settle disputes with AAR.
With the cessation of On 13 November, BP and AAR announced they had reached an equity accounting, under IFRS dividends from our investment in TNK-BP agreement to settle all outstanding disputes between them, including the are recognized as revenue in the period in which they become receivable.
arbitrations brought by each against the other.
The agreement included a In addition, within equity-accounted earnings, there was an impairment waiver of the new opportunities provision in the TNK-BP shareholder loss associated with the temporary shutdown of the Lisichansk renery in agreement, allowing each party to explore new opportunities and the Ukraine due to deteriorating economic conditions and environmental partnerships in Russia and Ukraine.
BP paid AAR $325 million as part of provisions, partly offset by gains on disposals.
See Legal proceedings on pages 169-171 for further operating items for the TNK-BP segment were not identied or disclosed.
After adjusting for non-operating items, the underlying replacement cost a b profit before interest and tax for the TNK-BP segment was $3,127 million, compared with $4,134 million in 2011.
The primary factors impacting the 2012 result, compared with 2011, were the absence of more than two months of equity-accounted earnings, lower realizations and the impact of the tax reference price lag on Russian export duties in falling price environments, partly offset by positive foreign exchange effects.
BP received $1,399 million in cash dividends from its investment in TNK-BP in 2012, as compared with $3,747 million during 2011.
This included $709 million received after reaching agreement with Rosneft for the sale of BPs shareholding in TNK-BP.
a Underlying replacement cost profit is not a recognized GAAP measure.
See footnote b on page 34 for information on underlying replacement cost profit.
Production and reserves BPs share of TNK-BP production for the full year of 2012 was 1,012mboe d, 2% higher than in 2011.
After adjusting for the effect of the acquisition of BPs upstream interests in Vietnam and Venezuela, production increased only slightly compared with 2011, with the ramp-up of new developments offsetting declines from mature elds and the impact of divestments.
The TNK-BP segments total hydrocarbon reserves, on an oil equivalent basis, was 5,315mmboe at 31 December 2012, an increase of 11% increase of 5% for crude oil and increase of 56% for natural gas, compared with the 31 December 2011 reserves of 4,802mmboe.
The proved reserves replacement ratio is the extent to which production is replaced by proved reserves additions.
For 2012, the proved reserves replacement ratio excluding acquisitions and disposals was 242% 2011 245%, 2010 165%.
For more information on proved reserves replacement for the group, see pages 85-86.
Key business events On 11 March, TNK-BP announced the acquisition of two companies that operate the jet fuel storage and re-fuelling services at the Koltsovo International Airport in Ekaterinburg.
The airport is the fifth largest in the Russian Federation in terms of number of passengers.
On 21 May, TNK-BP announced the appointment of Evert Henkes to the board of TNK-BP Ltd as a BP-nominated independent director.
He became the tenth member of the board of TNK-BP Ltd and the second of the boards three independent directors.
This appointment followed the resignations of Gerhard Schroeder and James Leng.
On 28 May, TNK-BP announced that Mikhail Fridman had resigned from the position of chief executive officer of the TNK-BP group.
He also resigned from the position of chairman of the management board of TNK-BP Management, a Russian subsidiary of TNK-BP, which manages the companys assets in Russia and Ukraine, including the publicly traded company, TNK-BP Holding.
Both resignations took effect at the end of June 2012.
On 20 August, TNK-BP announced that it had sold OJSC Novosibirskneftegaz and OJSC Severnoeneftegaz as part of the companys strategy to optimize the asset portfolio and improve per barrel efficiency.
On 9 October, TNK-BP announced that the groups subsidiary, TNK Vietnam, had produced the first gas from the Lan Do eld in Block 06.1, offshore of Ba Ria Vung Tau province.
Two sub-sea wells were tied back to the Lan Tay platform, through 28 kilometres of ow line and umbilical, enabling TNK Vietnam to produce gas from the existing infrastructure.
Business review: BP in more depth 81 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 cane ethanol mills.
In conjunction with joint venture partner DuPont, BP Other businesses and corporate is undertaking leading edge research into the production of biobutanol under the company name Butamax.
Other businesses and corporate comprises the Alternative Energy business, Shipping, Treasury which includes interest income on the Across our biofuels business, BPs net share of ethanol-equivalent groups cash and cash equivalents, and corporate activities worldwide.
production for 2012 was 404 million litres compared with 314 million litres b 410 million litres gross a year ago.
The majority of this production is from The replacement cost loss before interest and tax for the year ended BPs sugar cane mills in Brazil.
31 December 2012 was $2,795 million, compared with $2,478 million for the previous year.
2012 included a net charge for non-operating items of In the US, BP has made the strategic decision to focus its biofuels business $798 million.
See page 37 for further information on non-operating on the research, development, and commercialization of cellulosic ethanol items.
technology at its facilities in San Diego, California, and Jennings, Louisiana.
c After adjusting for non-operating items, the underlying replacement cost Alternative Energy has now invested approximately $7.6 billion, investing loss before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2012 was at a faster pace than its 2005 commitment of $8 billion over 10 years.
$1,997 million compared with $1,656 million in 2011.
The 2012 result was b BP acquired the remaining 50% of Tropical Bioenergia on 22 November 2011. c impacted by the loss of income from the sale of the aluminium business The majority of costs were initially capitalized, although some were expensed under IFRS.
in 2011, adverse foreign exchange effects and higher corporate and Biofuels functional costs.
BP believes that it has a key technological role to play in enabling the The replacement cost loss before interest and tax for the year ended transport sector to respond to the dual challenges of energy security and 31 December 2011 included a net charge for non-operating items of climate change.
We have embarked on a focused programme of biofuels $822 million.
development based on the most efficient transformation of sustainable and low-cost sugars into a range of fuel molecules.
Our strategy is to The replacement cost loss before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2010 included a net charge for non-operating items of focus on the conversion of cost-advantaged feedstocks that are materially scalable and that can be competitive in an $80 crude oil environment $200 million.
The primary additional factors reected in 2011s result compared with To this end, BP now operates three sugar cane mills in Brazil producing that of 2010 were weaker business performance and higher corporate bioethanol, sugar and exporting power to the grid.
We continue to costs, offset by more favourable foreign exchange effects and cost evaluate options to increase production at these facilities.
through the joint venture Vivergo, we are operating the largest bioethanol $ million facility in the UK, and one of the largest in Europe.
At 420 million litres per 2012 2011 2010 year, the Vivergo facility represents around a third of the UKs 2012-13 a Sales and other operating revenues 1,985 2,957 3,328 requirements under the Renewable Transport Fuels Obligation RTFO.
In Replacement cost loss before addition, once Vivergo is at full production, it is set to become the largest interest and tax 2,795 2,478 1,516 source of animal feed in the UK.
Net favourable unfavourable BP continues to invest throughout the entire biofuels value chain, from impact of non-operating items 798 822 200 sustainable feedstocks that minimize pressure on food supplies through to Underlying replacement cost profit the development of the advantaged fuel molecule biobutanol, which has a b loss before interest and tax 1,997 1,656 1,316 higher energy content than ethanol and delivers improved fuel economy.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions 1,435 1,853 1,234 See Technology on pages 57-59 for further information.
Wind b Underlying replacement cost profit loss is not a recognized GAAP measure.
See footnote b on In wind power, BP has focused its business onshore in the US.
BP has an page 34 for information on underlying replacement cost profit.
interest in 16 wind farms located in nine US states: California 1, Colorado 2, Hawaii 1, Idaho 1, Indiana 3, Kansas 2, Pennsylvania 1, South Alternative Energy Dakota 1 and Texas 4.
Alternative Energy comprises BPs lower-carbon businesses and future During 2012, together with our partners, we completed construction of growth options outside oil and gas.
These are biofuels, wind and a range wind farms in Kansas, Pennsylvania and Hawaii.
We have created nearly of other longer-term technology investments.
4,300 construction jobs and more than 200 jobs operating wind farms Market commentary since creation of our wind business.
A more diverse mix of energy will be required to meet long-term future d BP increased its net wind generation capacity in the US to 1,558MW demand.
BPs own estimates suggest that global primary energy demand during 2012, an increase of over 50% compared with the end of the will increase by around 1.6% per annum between 2010 and 2030. prior year.
Supported by government policies, renewables global share of power d BP also has 32MW of wind capacity in the Netherlands, operated by Downstream.
generation is expected to be 11% by 2030.
Through 2030, biofuels are a expected to account for 13% of transport energy demand growth.
The exit of our solar business as announced in December 2011 has been substantially completed.
2012 performance Alternative Energy continues to deliver on its mission to invest in and Emerging business and ventures develop new, material sources of lower-carbon energy that are in Our emerging business and ventures unit brings together BPs venturing alignment with BPs core capabilities.
and carbon markets expertise with our carbon capture and storage capability.
Through this unit, we have invested more than $175 million In 2012 our wind business brought three new wind farms into operation, across 33 separate investments spanning the following areas: bioenergy, bringing its total to 16 operating farms in nine US states.
Across our wind energy efficiency and storage, carbon management, renewable power facilities, BPs net share of wind generation for 2012 was 3,587GWh and, more recently, in emerging oil and gas technologies.
These 5,739GWh gross, compared with 2,394GWh 4,309GWh gross a year investments provide BP with insight and access to cutting-edge ago.
Additional projects continue to be evaluated.
technologies that can help make the company more efficient, productive, Globally, BP has continued to increase its biofuels production.
In Hull, UK, sustainable and profitable.
See Technology on pages 57-59 for further we have commissioned the joint venture Vivergo ethanol facility with a information.
production capacity of 420 million litres per year.
In Brazil, BP is progressing expansion of its ethanol production at its existing three sugar 82 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth Our carbon capture and storage expertise is helping our businesses Treasury understand and manage their CO emissions, and to monitor CO storage 2 2 Treasury manages the nancing of the group centrally, ensuring liquidity opportunities, such as the In Salah gas eld where we have injected sufficient to meet group requirements and manages key financial risks almost 4 million tonnes of CO since 2004.
Presently, CO injection at the 2 2 including interest rate, foreign exchange, pension and financial institution storage site is suspended while the In Salah Gas joint venture partners credit risk.
From locations in the UK, the US and the Asia Pacic region, BP, Sonatrach and Statoil evaluate the large body of data acquired during Treasury provides the interface between BP and the international financial the first phase of operation.
markets and supports the nancing of BPs projects around the world.
Treasury trades foreign exchange and interest rate products in the Shipping financial markets, hedging group exposures and generating incremental We transport our products across oceans, around coastlines and along value through optimizing and managing cash ows.
Trading activities are waterways, using a combination of BP-operated, time-chartered and underpinned by the compliance, control and risk management spot-chartered vessels.
All vessels conducting BP activities are subject to infrastructure common to all BP trading activities.
For further information, our health, safety, security and environmental requirements.
The primary see Financial statements Note 26 on page 220. purpose of our shipping and chartering activities is the transportation of our hydrocarbon products.
In addition, we may use surplus capacity to Insurance transport third-party products.
The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations where this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
Losses are borne as they International eet arise, rather than being spread over time through insurance premiums At the end of 2012, we had 52 international vessels 37 medium-size with attendant transaction costs.
This approach was reviewed crude and product carriers, three very large crude carriers, one North Sea following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill but the group concluded that shuttle tanker, eight LNG carriers and three LPG carriers.
All these ships it will continue with its current approach of not generally purchasing are double-hulled.
Of the eight LNG carriers, BP manages one on behalf insurance cover.
of a joint venture in which it is a participant.
In December 2012 BP announced it had signed a contract with STX Offshore and Shipbuilding to build 13 new tankers in Korea.
The first of these will be delivered in late 2014.
Regional and specialist vessels In Alaska, we retain a eet of four double-hulled vessels.
Outside the US, we had 14 specialist vessels two double-hulled lubricants oil barges and four offshore support vessels each one complete with two autonomous rescue and recovery crafts.
Time-charter vessels At the end of 2012 BP had 111 hydrocarbon-carrying vessels above 600 deadweight tonnes on time-charter, all of which are double-hulled.
The quality and safety performance of these vessels is assured through BPs Time Charter Assurance Programme.
Spot-charter vessels BP spot-charters vessels, typically for single voyages.
These vessels are always assessed against BPs marine assurance requirements prior to each use.
Other vessels BP uses various craft such as tugs, crew boats and seismic vessels in support of the groups business.
We also use sub-600 deadweight tonne barges to carry hydrocarbons on inland waterways.
Maritime security issues At a strategic level, BP avoids known areas of pirate attack or armed robbery: where this is not possible for operational reasons and we consider it safe to do so, we will continue to transit vessels through these areas, subject to the adoption of heightened security measures.
2012 has seen continuing pirate activity in the Gulf of Aden, the Indian Ocean up to approximately 200 miles west of the Indian coast and the Arabian Sea.
It should however be noted that pirate activity has reduced considerably compared with previous years.
This decrease in activity is due principally to more robust intervention by the various navies operating in this region and to greater adoption of protective measures by vessels transiting these waters.
At present, we follow available military and government agency advice and are participating in protective group transits through the Gulf of Aden Internationally Recommended Transit Corridor.
BP uses the protective measures recommended in the international shipping industry guide BMP 4 Best Management Practices for Protection against Somalia Based Piracy, jointly published by industry bodies, including Oil Companies International Marine Forum and supported by military operations in the region.
We continue to monitor other areas where cargo piracy is known to occur, for example West Africa and the South China Sea.
Business review: BP in more depth 83 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Subsidiaries and equity-accounted assets volumes in mmboe Oil and gas disclosures for the group Proved undeveloped reserves at 1 January 2012 7,919 Revisions of previous estimates 95 Resource progression Improved recovery 586 BP manages its hydrocarbon resources in three major categories: Discoveries and extensions 462 prospect inventory, contingent resources and proved reserves.
When a discovery is made, volumes usually transfer from the prospect inventory Purchases 49 to the contingent resources category.
The contingent resources move Sales 116 through various sub-categories as their technical and commercial maturity Total in year proved undeveloped reserves changes 8,805 increases through appraisal activity.
Progressed to proved developed reserves 1,279 At the point of final investment decision, most proved reserves will be Proved undeveloped reserves at 31 December 2012 7,526 categorized as proved undeveloped PUD.
Volumes will subsequently be recategorized from PUD to proved developed PD as a consequence of Subsidiaries only volumes in mmboe development activity.
When part of a wells proved reserves depends on a Proved undeveloped reserves at 1 January 2012 5,378 later phase of activity, only that portion of proved reserves associated with Revisions of previous estimates 700 existing, available facilities and infrastructure moves to PD.
The first PD Improved recovery 496 bookings will typically occur at the point of first oil or gas production.
Discoveries and extensions 169 Major development projects typically take one to five years from the time Purchases 49 of initial booking of proved reserves to the start of production.
Changes to proved reserves bookings may be made due to analysis of new or Sales 108 existing data concerning production, reservoir performance, commercial Total in year proved undeveloped reserves changes 5,284 factors and additional reservoir development activity.
Progressed to proved developed reserves 780 Volumes can also be added or removed from our portfolio through Proved undeveloped reserves at 31 December 2012 4,504 acquisition or divestment of properties and projects.
When we dispose of an interest in a property or project, the volumes associated with our BP bases its proved reserves estimates on the requirement of reasonable adopted plan of development for which we have a final investment certainty with rigorous technical and commercial assessments based on decision will be removed from our proved reserves upon completion.
BP only applies technologies that have been When we acquire an interest in a property or project, the volumes eld tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain associated with the existing development and any committed projects results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or will be added to our proved reserves if BP has made a final investment in an analogous formation.
BP applies high-resolution seismic data for the decision and they satisfy the SECs criteria for attribution of proved status.
identication of reservoir extent and uid contacts only where there is an Following the acquisition, additional volumes may be progressed to overwhelming track record of success in its local application.
In certain proved reserves from contingent.
deepwater elds BP has booked proved reserves before production ow tests are conducted, in part because of the significant safety, cost and Contingent resources in a eld will only be recategorized as proved environmental implications of conducting these tests.
The industry has made reserves when all the criteria for attribution of proved status have been substantial technological improvements in understanding, measuring and met and the proved reserves are included in the business plan and delineating reservoir properties without the need for ow tests.
To determine scheduled for development, typically within five years.
BP will only book reasonable certainty of commercial recovery, BP employs a general method proved reserves where development is scheduled to commence after of reserves assessment that relies on the integration of three types of data: more than five years, if these proved reserves satisfy the SECs criteria for attribution of proved status and BP management has reasonable certainty 1.
Well data used to assess the local characteristics and conditions of that these proved reserves will be produced.
Field scale seismic data to allow the interpolation and extrapolation of At the end of 2012, BP had material volumes of proved undeveloped these characteristics outside the immediate area of the local well control.
reserves held for more than five years in Trinidad, as well as non-material volumes in Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan, Russia, the UK and the US, that 3.
Data from relevant analogous elds.
Well data includes appraisal wells or are part of ongoing development activities for which BP has a historical sidetrack holes, full logging suites, core data and uid samples.
BP track record of completing comparable projects in these countries.
considers the integration of this data in certain cases to be superior to a ow test in providing understanding of overall reservoir performance.
The The volumes are being progressed as part of an adopted development collection of data from logs, cores, wireline formation testers, pressures plan where there are physical limits to the development timing such as and uid samples calibrated to each other and to the seismic data can allow infrastructure limitations, contractual limits including gas delivery reservoir properties to be determined over a greater volume than the commitments, late life compression and the complex nature of working localized volume of investigation associated with a short-term ow test.
There is a strong track record of proved reserves recorded using these Over the past five years, BP has annually progressed on average about methods, validated by actual production levels.
20% of our proved undeveloped reserves excluding disposals to proved Governance developed reserves.
This equates to a turnover time of about five years.
We expect the turnover time to remain at or below five years and BPs centrally controlled process for proved reserves estimation approval anticipate the volume of proved undeveloped reserves held for more than forms part of a holistic and integrated system of internal control.
It five years to remain about the same.
consists of the following elements: In 2012 we progressed 1,279mmboe of proved undeveloped reserves t Accountabilities of certain ofcers of the group to ensure that there is 780mmboe for our subsidiaries alone to proved developed reserves review and approval of proved reserves bookings independent of the through ongoing investment in our upstream development activities.
Total operating business and that there are effective controls in the approval development expenditure in Upstream, excluding midstream activities, process and verication that the proved reserves estimates and the was $15,247 million in 2012 $11,964 million for subsidiaries and related financial impacts are reported in a timely manner.
The major areas with t Capital allocation processes, whereby delegated authority is exercised progressed volumes in 2012 were Angola, Azerbaijan, Iraq, Norway, to commit to capital projects that are consistent with the delivery of the Russia, Trinidad and the US.
Revisions of previous estimates for proved groups business plan.
A formal review process exists to ensure that undeveloped reserves are due to the impact of year-end price net both technical and commercial criteria are met prior to the commitment reduction of 33% and changes relating to eld performance or well of capital to projects.
The following tables describe the changes to our proved undeveloped reserves position through the year for our subsidiaries and equity-accounted assets and for our subsidiaries alone.
84 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth t Internal audit, whose role is to consider whether the groups system of BPs estimated net proved reserves and proved internal control is adequately designed and operating effectively to reserves replacement respond appropriately to the risks that are significant to BP.
Eighty-two per cent of our total proved reserves of subsidiaries at t Approval hierarchy, whereby proved reserves changes above certain 31 December 2012 were held through unincorporated joint ventures threshold volumes require central authorization and periodic reviews.
75% in 2011, and 31% of the proved reserves were held through such The frequency of review is determined according to eld size and unincorporated joint ventures where we were not the operator ensures that more than 80% of the BP proved reserves base 33% in 2011. undergoes central review every two years, and more than 90% is a b c Estimated net proved reserves of liquids at 31 December 2012 reviewed centrally every four years.
In addition, BP commenced a review of certain of its assets and estimation processes.
This review million barrels Developed Undeveloped Total process will continue through 2013.
UK 242 431 673 BPs vice president of segment reserves is the petroleum engineer Rest of Europe 249 primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the reserves 170 79 d estimate.
He has nearly 30 years of diversied industry experience with US 1,443 989 2,432 the past eight spent managing the governance and compliance of BPs Rest of North America reserves estimation.
He is a past member of the Society of Petroleum e South America 22 32 54 Engineers Oil and Gas Reserves Committee, a sitting member of the Africa 567 312 255 American Association of Petroleum Geologists Committee on Resource Rest of Asia 268 137 405 Evaluation and chair of the bureau of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe Expert Group on Resource Classication.
Australasia 52 45 97 f Subsidiaries 4,477 2,509 1,968 For the executive directors and senior management, no specic portion g h of compensation bonuses is directly related to proved reserves targets.
Equity-accounted entities 3,041 2,532 5,573 Additions to proved reserves is one of several indicators by which the Total 5,550 4,500 10,050 performance of the Upstream segment is assessed by the remuneration a b Estimated net proved reserves of natural gas at 31 December 2012 committee for the purposes of determining compensation bonuses for billion cubic feet the executive directors.
Other indicators include a number of financial and Developed Undeveloped Total operational measures.
UK 1,704 1,038 666 BPs variable pay programme for the other senior managers in the Rest of Europe 340 141 481 Upstream segment is based on individual performance contracts.
US 8,245 2,986 11,231 Individual performance contracts are based on agreed items from the Rest of North America 4 4 business performance plan, one of which, if chosen, could relate to i proved reserves.
South America 3,588 6,250 9,838 Africa 1,139 1,923 3,062 Compliance Rest of Asia 1,339 926 413 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS do not provide specic Australasia 5,605 3,282 2,323 guidance on reserves disclosures.
BP estimates proved reserves in f Subsidiaries 18,562 14,702 33,264 accordance with SEC Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X and relevant g h Equity-accounted entities 4,196 2,845 7,041 Compliance and Disclosure Interpretations C&DI and Staff Accounting Bulletins as issued by the SEC staff.
Total 22,758 40,305 17,547 By their nature, there is always some risk involved in the ultimate Net proved reserves on an oil equivalent basis development and production of proved reserves including, but not limited million barrels of oil equivalent to: final regulatory approval: the installation of new or additional Developed Undeveloped Total f infrastructure, as well as changes in oil and gas prices: changes in Subsidiaries 5,709 4,504 10,213 operating and development costs: and the continued availability of g Equity-accounted entities 3,765 3,022 6,787 additional development capital.
All the groups proved reserves held in Total 9,474 7,526 17,000 subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities are estimated by the groups a petroleum engineers.
Proved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to Our proved reserves are associated with both concessions tax and make lifting and sales arrangements independently, and include minority interests in consolidated operations.
We disclose our share of reserves held in jointly controlled entities royalty arrangements and agreements where the group is exposed to the and associates that are accounted for by the equity method although we do not control these upstream risks and rewards of ownership, but where our entitlement to entities or the assets held by such entities.
the hydrocarbons is calculated using a more complex formula, such as b The 2012 marker prices used were Brent $111.13 bbl 2011 $110.96 bbl and 2010 $79.02 bbl with PSAs.
In a concession, the consortium of which we are a part is and Henry Hub $2.75 mmBtu 2011 $4.12 mmBtu and 2010 $4.37 mmBtu.
c Liquids include crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and bitumen.
entitled to the proved reserves that can be produced over the licence d Proved reserves in the Prudhoe Bay eld in Alaska include an estimated 76 million barrels on period, which may be the life of the eld.
In a PSA, we are entitled to which a net profits royalty will be payable over the life of the eld under the terms of the BP recover volumes that equate to costs incurred to develop and produce the Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust.
e proved reserves and an agreed share of the remaining volumes or the Includes 14 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
As part of our entitlement is driven by the monetary f Includes assets held for sale of 39 million barrels of liquids and 590 billion cubic feet of natural amount of costs to be recovered, price uctuations will have an impact on gas 140 million barrels of oil equivalent.
g both production volumes and reserves.
Includes assets held for sale of 4,540 million barrels of liquids and 4,492 billion cubic feet of natural gas 5,315 million barrels of oil equivalent associated with TNK-BP.
We disclose our share of proved reserves held in equity-accounted h Includes 328 million barrels of liquids and 270 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the entities jointly controlled entities and associates, although we do not 7.35% and 6.17% minority interests respectively in TNK-BP.
i Includes 2,890 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP control these entities or the assets held by such entities.
Business review: BP in more depth 85 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Proved reserves replacement In 2012, net additions to the groups proved reserves excluding Total hydrocarbon proved reserves, on an oil equivalent basis including production and sales and purchases of reserves-in-place amounted to equity-accounted entities, comprised 17,000mmboe 10,213mmboe 953mmboe -35mmboe for subsidiaries and 988mmboe for equityfor subsidiaries and 6,787mmboe for equity-accounted entities at accounted entities, through revisions to previous estimates, improved 31 December 2012, a decrease of 4% decrease of 11% for subsidiaries recovery from, and extensions to, existing elds and discoveries of new and increase of 7% for equity-accounted entities compared with the elds.
The subsidiary additions through improved recovery from, and 31 December 2011 reserves of 17,748mmboe 11,426mmboe for extensions to, existing elds and discoveries of new elds were in existing subsidiaries and 6,322mmboe for equity-accounted entities.
Natural gas developments where they represented a mixture of proved developed and represented about 41% 56% for subsidiaries and 18% for equity-accounted proved undeveloped reserves.
Volumes added in 2012 principally resulted entities of these reserves.
The change includes a net decrease from from the application of conventional technologies.
The principal proved acquisitions and disposals of 455mmboe 440mmboe net decrease for reserves additions in our subsidiaries were in Angola, Azerbaijan, India and subsidiaries and 15mmboe net decrease for equity-accounted entities.
We had material proved reserves reductions in Norway and the Additions from acquisitions occurred principally in the US following a 2011 US due to price changes, changes in activity and performance updates.
Divestments occurred in Norway, Russia, Trinidad, the UK and The principal reserves additions in our equity-accounted entities were in the US.
Proved reserves contain volumes in assets held for sale of 39 million Twelve per cent of our proved reserves are associated with PSAs.
The barrels of liquids and 590 billion cubic feet of natural gas 140 million countries in which we operated under PSAs in 2012 were Algeria, Angola, barrels of oil equivalent in our subsidiaries and 4,540 million barrels of Azerbaijan, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Oman, Vietnam and a non-material liquids and 4,492 billion cubic feet of natural gas 5,315 million barrels of volume in Trinidad.
In addition, the technical service contract TSC oil equivalent associated with TNK-BP.
governing our investment in the Rumaila eld in Iraq functions as a PSA.
The proved reserves replacement ratio is the extent to which production is The Abu Dhabi onshore concession expires in January 2014 with a replaced by proved reserves additions.
This ratio is expressed in oil consequent reduction in production of approximately 140mb d. The group equivalent terms and includes changes resulting from revisions to holds no other licences due to expire within the next three years that previous estimates, improved recovery, and extensions and discoveries.
would have a significant impact on BPs reserves or production.
For 2012, the proved reserves replacement ratio excluding acquisitions For further information on our reserves see page 263. and disposals was 77% 103% in 2011 and 106% in 2010 for subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, -5% for subsidiaries alone and 195% for equity-accounted entities alone.
86 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth BPs net production by major eld liquids thousand barrels per day a Subsidiaries BP net share of production Field or area 2012 2011 2010 b c UK ETAP 11 22 28 Foinaven BP-operated 14 26 24 d Other 61 65 85 Total UK 86 113 137 b Norway Various 23 32 40 Total Rest of Europe 23 32 40 Total Europe 109 145 177 Alaska Prudhoe Bay BP-operated 77 78 81 Kuparuk 36 39 42 Milne Point BP-operated 15 19 23 Other 11 17 20 Total Alaska 139 153 166 b Lower 48 onshore Various 60 69 90 b Gulf of Mexico deepwater Thunder Horse BP-operated 49 77 120 Atlantis BP-operated 23 34 49 Mad Dog BP-operated 9 830 Mars 15 19 23 Na Kika BP-operated 21 14 25 Horn Mountain BP-operated 6 814 King BP-operated 14 15 21 Other 54 56 56 Total Gulf of Mexico deepwater 191 231 338 Total US 390 453 594 b Canada Various BP-operated 1 27 Total Rest of North America 1 27 Total North America 391 455 601 b Colombia Various BP-operated 118 Trinidad & Tobago Various BP-operated 21 31 36 b Brazil Polvo BP-operated 7 7 Total South America 28 39 54 Angola Greater Plutonio BP-operated 51 73 59 Kizomba C Dev 9 21 31 Dalia 11 12 20 Girassol FPSO 11 12 18 Pazor 29 5 Other 30 22 28 Total Angola 149 123 170 b Egypt Gupco 32 34 47 Other 9 11 12 Total Egypt 41 45 59 b Algeria Various 22 17 12 Total Africa 202 190 246 b Azerbaijan  BP-operated 82 86 94 Other 10 89 Total Azerbaijan 92 94 103 b Western Indonesia Various 1 22 Iraq Rumaila 39 31 Other Various 7 11 14 b Total Rest of Asia 139 138 119 Total Asia 139 138 119 Australia Various 23 30 24 Other Various 3 22 Total Australasia 27 25 32 e Total subsidiaries 896 992 1,229 Equity-accounted entities BP share b Russia TNK-BP Various 863 865 856 Total Russia 863 865 856 f Abu Dhabi Various 216 209 190 Other Various 1 11 b Total Rest of Asia 217 210 191 Total Asia 1,080 1,075 1,047 Argentina Various 65 74 75 b Venezuela Various 14 16 23 b Bolivia Various 1 Total South America 80 90 98 g Total equity-accounted entities 1,160 1,165 1,145 Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities 2,056 2,157 2,374 a Production excludes royalties due to others whether payable in cash or in kind where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and sales arrangements independently.
b In 2012, BP divested its interests in the US Gulf of Mexico Marlin, Dorado, King, Horn Mountain, Holstein, Ram Powell and Diana Hoover assets, a portion of our interest in US Gulf of Mexico Mad Dog asset, its interests in the US onshore Jonah and Pinedale upstream operation in Wyoming, and associated gas gathering system, its interests in the Canadian natural gas liquid business, its interests in the Alba and Britannia elds in the UK North Sea, its interests in the Draugen eld in the Norwegian Sea, and TNK-BP disposed of its interests in OJSC Novosibirskneftegaz, with interests in Novosibirsk region, Omsk region, and Irkutsk region, and its interests in OJSC Severnoeneftegaz, with interests in Novosibirsk region.
BP also increased its interest in the US onshore Eagle Ford Shale in south Texas, its interests in certain UK North Sea assets, and in certain US Alaska assets.
In 2011, BP sold its holdings in Venezuela and Vietnam to TNK-BP.
It also made acquisitions in India through a joint venture with Reliance, Brazil and additional volumes in the US Gulf of Mexico and UK North Sea.
BP divested its holdings in Pompano along with other interests in the US Gulf of Mexico, Tuscaloosa and interests in South Texas in the US onshore, a portion of our interest in the  development in Azerbaijan, Wytch Farm in the UK, our interests in the REB eld in Algeria, and the remainder of our interests in Colombia and Pakistan.
In 2010, BP divested its Permian Basin assets in Texas and south-east New Mexico, the East Badr El-Din and Western Desert concession in Egypt, its Canada gas assets and reduced its interest in the King eld in the Gulf of Mexico.
It also acquired an increased holding in the  development in Azerbaijan and the Valhall and Hod elds in the Norwegian North Sea.
Four other producing elds in the Gulf of Mexico that were acquired during 2010 were subsequently disposed of in early 2011. c Volumes relate to six BP-operated elds within ETAP.
BP has no interests in the remaining three ETAP elds, which are operated by Shell.
d 2012 includes 17mb d of production in assets held for sale.
e Includes 13.5 net mboe d of NGLs from processing plants in which BP has an interest 2011 28mboe d and 2010 29mboe d. f The BP group holds interests, through associates, in onshore and offshore concessions in Abu Dhabi, expiring in 2014 and 2018 respectively.
g 2012 includes 877mb d of production in assets held for sale associated with TNK-BP.
Business review: BP in more depth 87 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 BPs net production by major eld natural gas million cubic feet per day a Subsidiaries BP net share of production Field or area 2012 2011 2010 b UK Bruce Rhum BP-operated 15 20 100 c Other 399 335 372 Total UK 414 355 472 b Norway Various 8 13 15 Total Rest of Europe 8 13 15 Total Europe 422 368 487 b Lower 48 onshore San Juan BP-operated 561 603 629 Jonah BP-operated 69 145 185 Anadarko 142 141 137 Arkoma Central 118 136 164 Wamsutter BP-operated 141 122 126 Arkoma East 112 115 112 Arkoma West 98 109 128 Other 258 274 394 Total Lower 48 onshore Total 1,499 1,645 1,875 b Gulf of Mexico deepwater Various 134 176 263 Alaska Various 18 22 46 Total US 1,651 1,843 2,184 b Canada Various 13 14 202 Total Rest of North America 13 14 202 Total North America 1,664 1,857 2,386 Trinidad & Tobago Mango BP-operated 181 308 544 Cashima NEQB BP-operated 305 570 679 Kapok BP-operated 360 464 541 Cannonball BP-operated 56 99 156 Amherstia BP-operated 324 296 252 Serrette BP-operated 367 35 Savonette BP-operated 327 203 320 Other BP-operated 184 94 98 Total Trinidad 2,097 2,193 2,473 b Colombia Various 471 Total South America 2,097 2,197 2,544 b Egypt Temsah 34 74 90 Hapy BP-operated 88 99 73 Taurt BP-operated 67 61 75 Other 281 210 192 Total Egypt 470 444 430 Algeria Various 120 114 126 Total Africa 590 558 556 b Pakistan Various BP-operated 73 150 b Azerbaijan Various BP-operated 158 140 132 b Western Indonesia Sanga-Sanga 59 59 69 Other 1 Total Western Indonesia 59 59 70 b India D1D3 253 121 Other 60 25 Total India 313 146 b Vietnam Various BP-operated 69 77 China Yacheng 54 70 95 Oman 14 20 Sharjah Various BP-operated 41 50 35 Total Rest of Asia 633 618 574 Total Asia 633 618 574 Australia Perseus Athena 141 170 165 Goodwyn 73 72 118 Angel 110 126 133 Other 111 87 46 Total Australia 435 455 462 Eastern Indonesia Tangguh BP-operated 352 340 323 Total Australasia 787 795 785 d Total subsidiaries 6,193 6,393 7,332 Equity-accounted entities BP share b Russia TNK-BP Various 734 699 640 Western Indonesia Various 26 26 30 b Vietnam 46 8 Total Rest of Asia 72 34 30 Total Asia 806 733 670 Argentina Various 355 371 379 b Bolivia Various 34 14 11 b Venezuela Various 5 79 Total South America 394 392 399 d e Total equity-accounted entities 1,200 1,125 1,069 Total subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities 7,393 7,518 8,401 a Production excludes royalties due to others whether payable in cash or in kind where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and sales arrangements independently.
b In 2012, BP divested its interests in the US Hugoton basin including the Jayhawk NGL plant, its interests in US Gulf of Mexico Marlin, Dorado, King, Horn Mountain, Holstein, Ram Powell and Diana Hoover assets, a portion of our interest in US Gulf of Mexico Mad Dog asset, its interests in the US onshore Jonah and Pinedale upstream operation in Wyoming, its interests in the Sunray and Hemphill gas processing plants in Texas, and associated gas gathering system, its interests in the UK North Sea southern gas elds including associated pipeline infrastructure and the Dimlington terminal including the integrated Easington terminal, and its interests in the Alba and Britannia elds in the UK North Sea.
BP also increased its interest in the US onshore Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas, and its interests in certain UK North Sea assets.
It also made acquisitions in India through a joint venture with Reliance, in the Eagle Ford shale in North America and additional volumes in the US Gulf of Mexico.
BP divested its holdings in Pompano along with other interests in the US Gulf of Mexico, Tuscaloosa and interests in south Texas in the US onshore, Wytch Farm in the UK, minor volumes in Canada and the remainder of our interests in Colombia and Pakistan.
In 2010, BP divested its Permian Basin assets in Texas and south-east New Mexico, the East Badr El-Din concession in Egypt, its Canada gas assets and reduced its interest in the King eld in the Gulf of Mexico.
It also acquired an increased holding in the Valhall and Hod elds in the Norwegian North Sea.
Four other producing elds in the Gulf of Mexico that were acquired during 2010 were subsequently disposed of in early 2011. c 2012 includes 40mmcf d of production in assets held for sale.
d Natural gas production volumes exclude gas consumed in operations within the lease boundaries of the producing eld, but the related reserves are included in the groups reserves.
e 2012 includes 785mmcf d of production in assets held for sale associated with TNK-BP.
88 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth The following tables provide additional data and disclosures in relation to our oil and gas operations.
b Producing assets now largely divested.
c Realizations include transfers between businesses.
d Crude oil and natural gas liquids.
e A minor amendment has been made to 2011 realizations for UK and Europe.
f It is common for equity-accounted entities agreements to include pricing clauses that require selling a significant portion of the entitled production to local governments or markets at discounted prices.
Average production cost per unit of production a $ per unit of production Europe North South Africa Asia Australasia Total America America group average Rest of Rest of North Rest of b UK Europe US America Russia Asia The average production a cost per unit of production Subsidiaries 2012 22.77 39.10 15.60 5.69 11.89 11.85 3.23 12.50 2011 21.59 18.23 12.09 3.20 10.82 8.65 3.05 10.08 2010 12.79 9.76 8.10 15.78 2.48 7.52 4.59 2.03 6.77 Equity-accounted entities 2012 11.33 5.72 2.88 5.76 2011 9.04 5.68 2.70 5.58 2010 6.32 5.04 2.61 4.83 a Units of production are barrels for liquids and thousands of cubic feet for gas.
Amounts do not include ad valorem and severance taxes.
Business review: BP in more depth 89 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Dividends and other distributions to shareholders Liquidity and capital resources BP aims to have a progressive dividend policy through the focus on Since the Gulf of Mexico oil spill in 2010 and the significant costs relating increasing sustainable free cash ows.
In addition, BP has committed to to the response activities and the initial uncertainty regarding the ultimate offset any dilution to earnings per share from the Rosneft transaction magnitude of its liabilities and timing of cash outows, the groups through either share buybacks or share consolidation.
situation has continued to stabilize.
This has been reected in the groups Since BP resumed dividend payments following the suspension of liquidity and capital resources position, which has continued to be dividend payments for the first three quarters of 2010 relating the Gulf of strengthened as well as put on a stable footing, underpinned by a prudent Mexico oil spill and the commitments to the Trust Fund, the dividend has financial framework.
A quarterly dividend of 7 cents per share was The groups long-term credit ratings are A positive outlook from Standard paid in 2011, and increased to 8 cents per share from the first quarter 2012 & Poors, strengthened from A stable outlook in July 2012, and A2 to the third quarter 2012, and increased again to 9 cents per share for stable outlook from Moodys Investor Services.
payment in the fourth quarter 2012.
BP renegotiated its committed bank facilities during early 2011, putting in On 5 February 2013, BP announced a dividend of 9 cents per share in place $6.8 billion of facilities with 23 international banking counterparties respect of the fourth quarter 2012. for a term of three years.
In addition the group has continued to The total dividend paid to BP shareholders in cash in 2012 was $5.3 billion strengthen its access to commercial bank letters of credit LC and at the with shareholders also having the option to receive a scrip dividend, end of 2012 has in place committed LC facilities of $6.9 billion and compared with $4.1 billion cash dividend paid in 2011.
The dividend is secured LC arrangements of $2.2 billion, to supplement its uncommitted determined in US dollars, the economic currency of BP.
During 2012 and 2011, the company did not repurchase any of its own The disposal programme for $38 billion has been essentially completed a shares.
Details of purchases to satisfy requirements of certain employee year ahead of schedule, including $15 billion during 2012.
Cash receipts of share-based payment plans are set out on page 158.
$11.4 billion were received in 2012, following $2.7 billion of receipts in 2011 and $17.0 billion in 2010. Financing the groups activities The groups principal commodity, oil, is priced internationally in US dollars.
In addition, we will benefit from further financial exibility when we complete the sale of BPs 50% share in TNK-BP to Rosneft, as announced Group policy has generally been to minimize economic exposure to currency movements by nancing operations with US dollar debt.
Where early in the fourth quarter of 2012, in return for cash and shares.
Having already received $709 million in December as a dividend from TNK-BP, we debt is issued in other currencies, including euros, it is generally swapped back to US dollars using derivative contracts, or else hedged by expect to receive a further net $11.6 billion cash on completion, which is anticipated in the first half of 2013.
At that time our shareholding in maintaining offsetting cash positions in the same currency.
The overall cash balances of the group are mainly held in US dollars or swapped to Rosneft will increase from 1.25% to 19.75%.
US dollars and holdings are well-diversied to reduce concentration risk.
During 2012 BP completed the payments into the Deepwater Horizon Oil The group is not therefore exposed to significant currency risk, such as in Spill Trust that have totalled $20 billion.
relation to the euro, regarding its borrowings.
Also see Risk factors on BP accessed US, European and Australian capital markets throughout the pages 38-44 for further information on risks associated with the general year with bond issuances amounting to $11 billion in 2012. macroeconomic outlook, including the stability of the eurozone and Financial statements Note 26 on page 220.
During 2012 BP repaid the remaining balance of $2.3 billion on the $4.5 billion of borrowings raised in 2010 that were backed by future crude oil The groups finance debt at 31 December 2012 amounted to $48.8 billion sales from BPs interests in specic offshore Angola and Azerbaijan elds.
Of the total finance debt, $10.0 billion is classied as short term at the end of 2012 2011 $9.0 billion.
The short-term balance Financial framework includes $6.2 billion for amounts repayable within the next 12 months BP continues to rene its financial framework to support the pursuit of relating to long-term borrowings 2011 $4.9 billion.
Commercial paper value growth for shareholders, while maintaining a secure financial base.
markets in the US and Europe are a further source of short-term liquidity a BP intends to increase operating cash ow by around 50% in 2014 for the group to provide timing exibility.
At 31 December 2012, b compared with 2011, and thereafter maintain focus on growing outstanding commercial paper amounted to $3.0 billion 2011 $3.6 billion.
The improvement in operating cashow to Also included within short-term debt at the end of 2012 was $0.6 billion 2014 will be delivered partly from the removal of quarterly trust fund relating to deposits received for announced disposal transactions still payments of $1.25 billion after completion in 2012, and partly through pending legal completion post the balance sheet date 2011 $30 million.
The growth in operating cashow We have in place a European Debt Issuance Programme DIP under will be utilized to increase both organic reinvestment and shareholder which the group may raise up to $20 billion of debt for maturities of one distributions.
At 31 December 2012, the amount drawn down against The financial framework remains prudent and we expect to operate within the DIP was $14.0 billion 2011 $11.6 billion.
The group also had in place d a gearing range of 10-20%, and to be robust to cash break-even levels in an unlimited US shelf registration statement throughout 2012 and until an oil price environment between $80 and $100 per barrel.
BP expects to 5 February 2013, under which it could raise debt with maturities of one continue to maintain a significant liquidity buffer while uncertainties month or longer.
Following the approval in December 2012 of the SEC remain.
settlement in respect of Deepwater Horizon-related claims, the unlimited US shelf registration statement was converted to a shelf registration a Operating cash ow is net cash provided by used in operating activities, as presented in the statement with a limit of $30 billion from 5 February 2013, with no group cash ow statement on page 185. amounts drawn down since conversion.
In addition, the group has an b Adjusted to remove TNK-BP dividends from 2011 and 2014 operating cash ow: 2014 includes Australian Note Issue Programme of $5 billion Australian dollars, and as at BPs estimate of Rosneft dividend: 2014 includes the impact of payments in respect of the settlement of all federal criminal and securities claims with the US government: BPs 31 December 2012 the amount drawn down was $0.5 billion Australian assumption for 2014 is $100 bbl oil, $5 mmBtu Henry Hub gas.
The projection does not reect dollars 2011 nil.
any cash ows relating to other liabilities, contingent liabilities, settlements or contingent assets arising from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, which may or may not arise at that time.
See Financial None of the capital market bond issuances since the Gulf of Mexico oil statements Note 43 on page 253 for further information on contingent liabilities.
spill contains any additional financial covenants compared with the groups c Free cash ow is operating cash ow less net cash used in investing activities, as presented in capital markets issuances prior to the incident.
the group cash ow statement on page 185. d Gearing refers to the ratio of the groups net debt to net debt plus equity and is a non-GAAP The maturity prole and xed oating rate characteristics of the groups measure.
See Financial statements Note 35 on page 234 for information on gross debt, which debt are described in Financial statements Note 34 on page 233. is the nearest equivalent measure to net debt on an IFRS basis.
Net debt was $27.5 billion at the end of 2012, a reduction of $1.5 billion from the 2011 year-end position of $29.0 billion.
The ratio of net debt to net debt plus equity was 18.7% at the end of 2012 2011 20.5%.
Net debt 90 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth and the ratio of net debt to net debt plus equity are non-GAAP measures.
Uncertainty remains regarding the amount and timing of future We believe that these measures provide useful information to investors.
expenditures relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and the implications for Net debt enables investors to see the economic effect of gross debt, future activities.
See Risk factors on pages 38-44, and Financial related hedges and cash and cash equivalents in total.
The net debt ratio statements Note 2 on page 194, Note 36 on page 235 and Note 43 on enables investors to see how significant net debt is relative to equity from page 253 for further information.
See Financial statements Note 35 on page 234 for gross Off-balance sheet arrangements debt, which is the nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis, and for At 31 December 2012, the groups share of third-party finance debt of further information on net debt.
equity-accounted entities was $6,900 million 2011 $7,003 million.
These Included in net debt are cash and cash equivalents of $19.5 billion at amounts are not reected in the groups debt on the balance sheet.
BP manages its cash position to group has issued third-party guarantees under which amounts ensure the group has adequate cover to respond to potential short-term outstanding at 31 December 2012 are $237 million 2011 $415 million in market illiquidity, and expects to maintain a strong cash position.
Cash respect of liabilities of jointly controlled entities and associates and balances are pooled centrally where permissible, and deployed globally as $713 million 2011 $1,430 million in respect of liabilities of other third required.
Cash surpluses are deposited with creditworthy banks and parties.
Of these amounts, $166 million 2011 $220 million of the jointly money market funds with short maturities to ensure availability.
The group controlled entities and associates guarantees relate to borrowings and for holds $2 billion of cash outside the UK and it is not expected that any other third-party guarantees, $543 million 2011 $1,267 million relates to significant tax will arise on repatriation.
Further information on the guarantees of borrowings.
Details of operating lease commitments, which management of liquidity risk and credit risk is provided in Financial are not recognized on the balance sheet, are shown in the table below statements Note 26 on page 220, and on the cash position in Financial and in Note 14 on page 211. statements Note 30 on page 226.
Contractual commitments The group also has access to significant sources of liquidity in the form of The following table summarizes the groups principal contractual committed bank facilities.
At 31 December 2012, the group had available obligations at 31 December 2012, distinguishing between those for which undrawn committed standby borrowing facilities of $6.8 billion 2011 a liability is recognized on the balance sheet and those for which no $6.9 billion available to draw and repay by mid-March 2014. liability is recognized.
Further information on borrowings and finance BP believes that, taking into account the amounts of undrawn borrowing leases is given in Financial statements Note 34 on page 233 and more facilities and increased levels of cash and cash equivalents, and the information on operating leases is given in Financial statements Note 14 ongoing ability to generate cash, including further disposal proceeds, the on page 211. group has sufficient working capital for foreseeable requirements.
$ million Payments due by period Expected payments by period under contractual 2018 and obligations and commercial commitments Total 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter Balance sheet obligations a Borrowings 51,676 10,232 6,607 6,482 6,481 6,135 15,739 Finance lease future minimum lease payments 604 59 54 54 53 50 334 b Decommissioning liabilities 20,200 767 528 442 525 647 17,291 b Environmental liabilities 4,029 1,524 1,093 224 215 222 751 c Pensions and other post-retirement benets 26,532 1,908 1,894 1,931 1,923 1,918 16,958 Total balance sheet obligations 103,041 14,490 10,176 9,133 9,197 8,972 51,073 Off-balance sheet obligations d Operating lease future minimum lease payments 18,459 4,531 3,494 2,666 2,007 1,566 4,195 e Unconditional purchase obligations 190,771 109,244 17,355 11,994 8,713 7,987 35,478 Total off-balance sheet obligations 209,230 113,775 20,849 14,660 10,720 9,553 39,673 Total 312,271 128,265 31,025 23,793 19,917 18,525 90,746 a Expected payments include interest payments on borrowings totalling $3,894 million $863 million in 2013, $728 million in 2014, $607 million in 2015, $485 million in 2016, $365 million in 2017 and $846 million thereafter, and exclude disposal deposits of $632 million included in current finance debt on the balance sheet.
Environmental liabilities include those relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, including liabilities for spill response costs.
c Represents the expected future contributions to funded pension plans and payments by the group for unfunded pension plans and the expected future payments for other post-retirement benets.
d The future minimum lease payments are before deducting related rental income from operating sub-leases.
In the case of an operating lease entered into solely by BP as the operator of a jointly controlled asset, the amounts shown in the table represent the net future minimum lease payments, after deducting amounts reimbursed, or to be reimbursed, by joint venture partners.
Where BP is not the operator of a jointly controlled asset BPs share of the future minimum lease payments are included in the amounts shown, whether BP has co-signed the lease or not.
Where operating lease costs are incurred in relation to the hire of equipment used in connection with a capital project, some or all of the cost may be capitalized as part of the capital cost of the project.
e Represents any agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and that species all significant terms.
The amounts shown include arrangements to secure long-term access to supplies of crude oil, natural gas, feedstocks and pipeline systems.
In addition, the amounts shown for 2013 include purchase commitments existing at 31 December 2012 entered into principally to meet the groups short-term manufacturing and marketing requirements.
The price risk associated with these crude oil, natural gas and power contracts is discussed in Financial statements Note 26 on page 220. Business review: BP in more depth 91 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 The following table summarizes the nature of the groups unconditional purchase obligations.
The following table summarizes the groups capital expenditure commitments for property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2012 and the proportion of that expenditure for which contracts have been placed.
Capital expenditure is considered to be committed when the project has received the appropriate level of internal management approval.
For jointly controlled assets, the net BP share is included in the amounts shown.
Where operating lease costs are incurred in connection with a capital project, some or all of the cost may be capitalized as part of the capital cost of the project.
Such costs are included in the amounts shown.
$ million 2018 and Capital expenditure commitments Total 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter Committed on major projects 33,775 16,973 6,273 4,578 2,840 1,443 1,668 Amounts for which contracts have been placed 14,068 8,552 2,479 1,666 812 385 174 In addition, at 31 December 2012, the group had committed to capital expenditure relating to investments in equity-accounted entities amounting to $465 million.
Contracts were in place for $275 million of this total.
The group has also signed denitive and binding sale and purchase agreements for the sale of BPs 50% interest in TNK-BP and for BPs further investment in Rosneft as described on page 80.
These impacts were partially offset by a decrease of Cash ow $2,622 million in the net impairment, gains and losses on sale of The following table summarizes the groups cash ows.
businesses and xed assets, and an increase in dividends received from jointly controlled entities and associates of $2,104 million.
$ million 2012 2011 2010 Net cash used in investing activities was $12,962 million in 2012, Net cash provided by operating activities 20,397 22,154 13,616 compared with $26,633 million and $3,960 million in 2011 and 2010 Net cash used in investing activities 12,962 26,633 3,960 respectively.
The decrease in cash used in 2012 reected an absence of significant expenditure on business combinations compared with 2011 Net cash provided by used in nancing when we spent $10,909 million, mainly for the Reliance and Devon activities 2,018 482 840 acquisitions, as well as an increase in disposal proceeds of $8,714 million.
Currency translation differences relating This was partially offset by an increase in capital expenditure excluding to cash and cash equivalents 64 492 279 acquisitions of $5,905 million.
The increase in cash used in 2011 reected Increase decrease in cash and cash a decrease of $14,222 million in disposal proceeds, including the impact equivalents 5,481 4,489 10,217 of the repayment in 2011 of a $3,530-million disposal deposit received in Cash and cash equivalents at beginning 2010, following the termination of the Pan American Energy LLC sale of year 14,067 18,556 8,339 agreement, and an increase of $8,441 million in acquisitions, net of cash Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 19,548 14,067 18,556 acquired, of which $7.0 billion was for the Reliance transaction.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended 31 December Net cash used in nancing activities was $2,018 million in 2012 compared 2012 was $20,397 million compared with $22,154 million for 2011.
The with net cash provided by nancing activities in 2011 and 2010 of cash outow in respect of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill reduced from $482 million and $840 million respectively.
The increase in net cash used $6,813 million in 2011 to $2,382 million in 2012.
Excluding the impacts of in 2012 primarily reected a net decrease in short-term debt of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, net cash provided by operating activities was $2,901 million and an increase in dividends paid of $1,222 million, partly $22,779 million for 2012, compared with $28,967 million for 2011, a offset by an increase in net proceeds from long-term nancing of decrease of $6,188 million.
profit before taxation decreased by $1,412 million.
The decrease in net cash provided in 2011 primarily $11,269 million, of which $4,798 million related to the non-cash impacts reected a decrease in net proceeds from long-term nancing of of higher depreciation, impairments and gains and losses on disposal and $4,734 million, and an increase in dividends paid of $1,445 million partly lower equity-accounted earnings of jointly controlled entities and offset by a net increase in short-term debt of $5,846 million.
A reduction in working capital requirements of $3,500 million The group has had significant levels of capital investment for many years.
was largely offset by lower dividends received from jointly controlled Cash ow in respect of capital investment, excluding acquisitions, was entities and associates, principally TNK-BP.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended 31 December Sources of funding are completely fungible, but the majority of the groups 2011 was $22,154 million compared with $13,616 million for 2010, the funding requirements for new investment come from cash generated by increase primarily reecting a reduction in the cash outow in respect of existing operations.
The groups level of net debt, that is debt less cash the Gulf of Mexico oil spill from $16,019 million in 2010 to $6,813 million in and cash equivalents, was $27.5 billion at the end of 2012, $29.0 billion at 2011.
Excluding the impacts of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, net cash the end of 2011 and $25.9 billion at the end of 2010. provided by operating activities was $28,967 million for 2011, compared During the period 2010 to 2012, our total sources of cash amounted to with $29,635 million for 2010, a decrease of $668 million.
profit before $88 billion, and our total uses of cash amounted to $88 billion.
The taxation decreased by $1,018 million, working capital requirements increase in cash and cash equivalents held of $12 billion was nanced by increased by $1,509 million and income taxes paid increased by 92 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth an increase in finance debt of $12 billion over the three-year period.
During We expect capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions and asset this period, the price of Brent crude oil has averaged $100.81 per barrel.
exchanges, to be around $24-25 billion as we invest to grow in the Upstream.
From 2014 through to the end of the decade, we expect a The following table summarizes the three-year sources and uses of cash.
range for organic capital expenditure of between $24 billion and $27 billion per annum.
$ billion Sources of cash: Having essentially reached our $38-billion target of disposals since 2010, Net cash provided by operating activities 56 we expect to divest on average of $2-3 billion per annum on an ongoing Disposals 32 basis.
88 We intend to target our net debt ratio within the 10-20% range while Uses of cash: uncertainties remain.
Net debt is a non-GAAP measure.
Capital expenditure 62 Depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2013 is expected to be around Acquisitions 13 $0.5-1.0 billion higher than in 2012.
Net repurchase of shares For 2013, the underlying effective tax rate ETR which excludes Dividends paid to BP shareholders 12 non-operating items and fair value accounting effects is expected to be in Dividends paid to minority interests 1 the range of 36-38% compared with 30% in 2012.
The increase in the 88 forecast rate is mainly due to a lower level of equity-accounted income in Net use of cash 2013, which is reported net of tax in the income statement.
Increase in finance debt 12 Forward-looking statements Increase in cash and cash equivalents 12 The discussion above contains forward-looking statements, particularly those regarding production in Upstream, the expected financial impact of Disposal proceeds received during the three-year period exceeded cash renery turnarounds, expectations regarding petrochemicals margins and used for acquisitions, as a result in particular of our ongoing disposal the average quarterly charge for Other businesses and corporate, programme started in 2010.
Net investment capital expenditure and estimated levels of capital expenditure in 2013 and to the end of the acquisitions less disposal proceeds during this period averaged $15 billion decade, estimated amount of divestments, intentions regarding net debt per year.
Dividends paid to BP shareholders totalled $12 billion during the ratio and the expected level of depreciation, depletion and amortization, three-year period, with no ordinary share dividends being paid in respect and the expected level of underlying ETR.
These forward-looking of the first three quarters of 2010.
In the past three years, $4 billion has statements are based on assumptions that management believes to be been contributed to funded pension plans.
This is reected in net cash reasonable in the light of the groups operational and financial experience.
provided by operating activities in the table above.
However, no assurance can be given that the forward-looking statements Trend information will be realized.
You should not rely on past performance as an indicator of future performance.
You are urged to read the cautionary statement on For information on external market trends, see Energy outlook on page 32 and Risk factors on pages 38-44, which describe the risks and pages 12-14, Upstream on pages 63-71 and Downstream on pages 72-79. uncertainties that may cause actual results and developments to differ We expect production in our Upstream segment to be lower in 2013 than materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking 2012, mainly due to the impact of divestments, which we estimate at statements.
The company provides no commitment to update the around 150mboe d. forward-looking statements or to publish financial projections for In Downstream, the financial impact of renery turnarounds for 2013 is forward-looking statements in the future.
expected to be lower than in 2012.
We expect the petrochemicals margins to remain under pressure during 2013.
In 2013, we expect the average quarterly charge, excluding non-operating items, for Other businesses and corporate to remain at around $500 million, although this will remain volatile between individual quarters.
Business review: BP in more depth 93 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 co-owner and will carry out its duties either through its own staff, or by Regulation of the groups business contracting out various elements to third-party contractors or service providers.
BP acts as operator on behalf of joint ventures and coBPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, ownerships in a number of countries where we have exploration and pipelines and transportation, rening and marketing, petrochemicals production activities.
production, trading, alternative energy and shipping activities, are conducted in many different countries and are subject to a broad range Frequently, work including drilling and related activities will be contracted of EU, US, international, regional and local legislation and regulations, out to third-party service providers who have the relevant expertise and including legislation that implements international conventions and equipment not available within the joint venture or the co-owning protocols.
These cover virtually all aspects of BPs activities and include operators organization.
The relevant contract will specify the work to be matters such as licence acquisition, production rates, royalties, done and the remuneration to be paid and typically will set out how major environmental, health and safety protection, fuel specications and risks will be allocated between the joint venture or co-ownership and the transportation, trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes and foreign service provider.
Generally, the joint venture or co-owner and the exchange.
contractor would respectively allocate responsibility for and provide reciprocal indemnities to each other for harm caused to their respective The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under staff and property.
Depending on the service to be provided, an oil and which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
gas industry service contract may also contain provisions allocating risks These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or entered and liabilities associated with pollution and environmental damage, into with a government entity or state owned or controlled company and damage to a well or hydrocarbon reservoir and for claims from third are sometimes entered into with private property owners.
These parties or other losses.
The allocation of those risks vary among contracts arrangements with governmental or state entities usually take the form of and are determined through negotiation between the parties.
licences or production-sharing agreements PSAs, although arrangements with the US government can be by lease.
Arrangements In general, BP is required to pay income tax on income generated from with private property owners are usually in the form of leases.
production activities whether under a licence or PSAs.
In addition, depending on the area, BPs production activities may be subject to a Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for and range of other taxes, levies and assessments, including special petroleum exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the risk taxes and revenue taxes.
The taxes imposed on oil and gas production of exploration, development and production activities and provides the profits and activities may be substantially higher than those imposed on nancing for these operations.
In principle, the licence holder is entitled to other activities, for example in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Egypt, Norway, the UK, all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
A licence the US, Russia and Trinidad & Tobago.
holder is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, which may be in cash or in kind.
Less typically, BP may explore for and exploit Environmental regulation hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in BP operates in more than 80 countries and is subject to a wide variety of exchange for reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather environmental regulations concerning its products, operations and than production.
Current and proposed fuel and product specications, emission PSAs entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled controls, climate change programmes and regulation of unconventional company generally require BP to provide all the nancing and bear the risk gas extraction under a number of environmental laws may have a of exploration and production activities in exchange for a share of the significant effect on the production, sale and profitability of many of BPs production remaining after royalties, if any.
In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and There are also environmental laws that require BP to remediate and production activities and, in certain cases, production licences are limited restore areas affected by the release of hazardous substances or to only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration licence.
hydrocarbons associated with our operations.
These laws may apply to Both exploration and production licences are generally for a specified sites that BP currently owns or operates, sites that it previously owned or period of time.
In the US, leases from the US government typically remain operated, or sites used for the disposal of its and other parties waste.
in effect for a specified term, but may be extended beyond that term as Provisions for environmental restoration and remediation are made when long as there is production in paying quantities.
The term of BPs licences a clean-up is probable and the amount of BPs legal obligation can be and the extent to which these licences may be renewed vary from reliably estimated.
The cost of future environmental remediation country to country.
obligations is often inherently difficult to estimate.
Frequently, BP conducts its exploration and production activities in joint Uncertainties can include the extent of contamination, the appropriate ventures or co-ownership arrangements with other international oil corrective actions, technological feasibility and BPs share of liability.
See companies, state-owned or controlled companies and or private Financial statements Note 36 on page 235 for the amounts provided in companies.
These joint ventures may be incorporated or unincorporated respect of environmental remediation and decommissioning.
ventures, while the co-ownerships are typically unincorporated.
Whether A number of pending or anticipated governmental proceedings against incorporated or unincorporated, relevant agreements set out each partys BP and certain subsidiaries under environmental laws could result in level of participation or ownership interest in the joint venture or monetary or other sanctions.
We are also subject to environmental claims co-ownership.
Conventionally, all costs, benets, rights, obligations, for personal injury and property damage alleging the release of or liabilities and risks incurred in carrying out joint-venture or co-ownership exposure to hazardous substances.
The costs associated with such future operations under a lease or licence are shared among the joint-venture or environmental remediation obligations, governmental proceedings and co-owning parties according to these agreed ownership interests.
claims could be significant and may be material to the results of Ownership of joint-venture or co-owned property and hydrocarbons to operations in the period in which they are recognized.
We cannot which the joint venture or co-ownership is entitled is also shared in these accurately predict the effects of future developments on the group, such proportions.
To the extent that any liabilities arise, whether to as stricter environmental laws or enforcement policies, or future events at governments or third parties, or as between the joint venture parties or our facilities, and there can be no assurance that material liabilities and co-owners themselves, each joint venture party or co-owner will generally costs will not be incurred in the future.
For a discussion of the groups be liable to meet these in proportion to its ownership interest see environmental expenditure see page 53.
Financial statements Note 2 on page 194 in relation to the Gulf of A significant proportion of our xed assets are located in the US and the Mexico oil spill.
In many upstream operations, a party known as the EU.
US and EU environmental, health and safety regulations signicantly operator will be appointed pursuant to a joint operating agreement JOA affect BPs exploration and production, rening and marketing, to carry out day-to-day operations on behalf of the joint venture or transportation and shipping operations.
The operator is typically one of the joint venture parties or a 94 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth regulation in the US and the EU affecting our businesses and profitability legitimate individual and business claims.
We are also subject to Natural includes the following: Resource Damages claims and numerous civil lawsuits by individuals, corporations and governmental entities.
The ultimate costs for these United States claims cannot be determined at this time.
We also expect the industry in t The Clean Air Act CAA regulates air emissions, permitting, fuel general, and BP in particular, to become subject to greater regulation and specications and other aspects of our production, distribution and increased operating costs in the Gulf of Mexico in the future.
Stricter limits on sulphur and benzene in fuels will disclosures relating to the consequences of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon affect us in future, as will actions on greenhouse gas GHG emissions oil spill, see Legal proceedings on pages 162-169. and other air pollutants.
Additionally, states may have separate, stricter BP is in settlement discussions with EPA to resolve alleged CAA air emission laws in addition to the CAA.
violations at the Toledo, Carson and Cherry Point reneries.
t The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 affect our US fuel markets by, among other things, European Union imposing renewable fuel mandates and imposing GHG emissions BPs operations in the EU are subject to a number of current and proposed thresholds for certain renewable fuels.
States such as California also regulatory requirements that affect or could affect our operations and impose additional fuel carbon standards.
These include: t The Clean Water Act regulates wastewater and other efuent t The 2008 EU Climate and Energy Package, including the EU Emissions discharges from BPs facilities, and BP is required to obtain discharge Trading System EUETS Directive and the Renewable Energy Directive permits, install control equipment and implement operational controls see Greenhouse gas regulation on page 52.
In 2013, the European and preventative measures.
Commission is expected to propose a new Climate and Energy Package t The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act regulates the generation, for the period up to 2030. storage, transportation and disposal of wastes associated with our t Under the third trading period Phase III which started on 1 January operations and can require corrective action at locations where such 2013, the EUETS has been expanded to include the petrochemical wastes have been released.
sector, free allocation is via sector benchmarking, and auctioning is the t The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and default method for allocating allowances to some sectors including Liability Act CERCLA can, in certain circumstances, impose the entire electricity generation and production, though sectors at risk of carbon cost of investigation and remediation on a party who owned or leakage are partially compensated with free allocation.
operated a site contaminated with a hazardous substance, or arranged t The Energy efficiency Directive EED was adopted in 2012.
It requires for disposal of a hazardous substance at the site.
BP has incurred, or EU Member states to implement an indicative 2020 energy saving expects to incur, liability under the CERCLA or similar state laws, target and apply a framework of measures as part of a national EED including costs attributed to insolvent or unidentified parties.
Such measures include mandatory industrial energy subject to claims for remediation costs under other federal and state efficiency surveys, and providing data on new and replacement of large laws, and to claims for natural resource damages under the CERCLA, plants.
Such a programme may result in requirements to implement the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 discussed below and other additional energy saving measures at BPs sites and or higher power federal and state laws.
CERCLA also requires hazardous substance prices for BPs operations.
t The EU Industrial Emissions Directive IED revising and replacing the t The Toxic Substances Control Act regulates BPs import, export and Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Directive IPPC and several sale of new chemical products.
other industrial directives including the Large Combustion Plant t The Occupational Safety and Health Act imposes workplace safety and Directive LCPD should be transposed into national law by the EU health requirements on BP operations along with significant process Member states by 7 January 2013.
The IED provides the framework for safety management obligations.
setting permits for major industrial sites.
Relative to IPPC and LCPD, t The Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act requires the IED imposes tighter emission standards for some large combustion emergency planning and hazardous substance release notication as plants and is more prescriptive regarding the setting of emission of limit well as public disclosure of our chemical usage and emissions.
values based on use of Best Available Techniques BAT in permits for other discharges to air and water.
The emission limit values are t The US Department of Transportation DOT regulates the transport of informed by the sector specic and cross-sector BAT Reference BPs petroleum products such as crude oil, gasoline, petrochemicals and documents BREFs, which are reviewed periodically.
The outcome of other hydrocarbon liquids.
the review of several BREFs relevant to our major sites is expected in t The Marine Transportation Security Act MTSA, the DOT Hazardous 2013.
The IED transposition and output from the BREF revisions may Materials HAZMAT and the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standard result in requirements for further emission reductions at our EU sites.
CFATS regulations impose security compliance regulations on around The LCPD imposes air quality standards requiring retrot of ue gas 50 BP facilities.
These regulations require security vulnerability desulphurization equipment, particularly for coal-red power stations, assessments, security risk mitigation plans and security upgrades, that may force some of them to close.
This is expected to impact the increasing our cost of operations.
relative demand for natural gas and electricity prices.
OPA 90 is implemented through regulations issued by the US t The European Commission Thematic Strategy on Air Pollution and the Environmental Protection Agency EPA, the US Coast Guard, the DOT, related work on revisions to the Gothenburg Protocol and National the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various states.
Emissions Ceiling Directive NECD will establish national ceilings for Alaska and the west coast states currently have the most demanding emissions of a variety of air pollutants in order to achieve EU-wide state requirements although regulation in the Gulf of Mexico has health and environmental improvement targets.
This may result in increased following the 2010 Deepwater Horizon incident.
There is an requirements for further emission reductions at BPs EU sites.
expectation that OPA 90 and its regulations will become more stringent t The implementation of the Water Framework Directive and the in the future.
The impact will likely be more rigorous preparedness Environmental Quality Directive are likely to require BP to take further requirements the ability to respond over a longer period to larger spills, steps to manage water discharges from its reneries and chemical including the demonstration of that preparedness.
There are expected to plants in the EU.
be additional costs associated with this increased regulation.
In 2013, we expect more unannounced exercises and potential penalties for any failure t The EU Regulation on ozone depleting substances ODS, which to demonstrate required preparedness even without any OPA 90 implements the Montreal Protocol Protocol on ODS was most amendments.
It requires BP to reduce the use of ODS and phase out use of certain ODS substances.
BP continues to replace As a consequence of the Deepwater Horizon incident BP has become ODS in refrigerants and or equipment, in the EU and elsewhere, in subject to claims under OPA 90 and other laws and have established a accordance with the Protocol and related legislation.
Methyl bromide $20-billion trust fund for legitimate state and local government response an ODS is a minor by-product in the production of puried terephthalic claims, final judgments and settlement claims, legitimate state and local acid in our petrochemicals operations.
The progressive phase-out of response costs, natural resource damages and related costs and Business review: BP in more depth 95 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 methyl bromide uses may result in future pressure to reduce our Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution, the MARPOL Convention, emissions of methyl bromide.
In addition, the European Commission the International Convention on Oil Pollution, Preparedness, Response recently proposed a revised regulation to phase out the use of uorinated and Co-operation and the International Convention on Civil Liability for gases, including hydrouorocarbons HFCs.
While targeting all HFCs, Bunker Oil Pollution Damage.
In April 2010, a new protocol, the there is specic emphasis on those with a high global-warming potential.
Hazardous and Noxious Substance HNS Protocol 2010, was adopted If adopted, this may have an impact on some of BPs operations.
to address issues that have inhibited ratication of the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in Connection t The EU Fuel Quality Directive affects our production and marketing of with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by Sea 1996 transport fuels.
Revisions adopted in 2009 mandate reductions in the the HNS Convention.
This protocol will enter into force when at least life cycle GHG emissions per unit of energy and tighter environmental 12 states have agreed to be bound by it four of the states must have at fuel quality standards for petrol and diesel.
least 2 million gross tonnes of shipping and contributing parties in the The EU Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals REACH consenting states have received at least 40 million tonnes of Regulation requires registration of chemical substances, manufactured in, contributing cargoes in the preceding year.
As at 3 January 2013, 14 or imported into, the EU in quantities greater than 1 tonne per annum per states had signed or acceded to the Convention subject to ratication legal entity, together with the submission of relevant hazard and risk data.
but it had not yet entered into force.
REACH affects our rening, petrochemicals, exploration and production, t In April 2008, the International Maritime Organization approved biofuels, lubricants and other manufacturing or trading import operations.
amendments to Annex VI of The International Convention for the Having completed registration of all the substances that we were required Prevention of Pollution from Ships MARPOL to reduce the sulphur to submit by the regulatory deadline of 1 December 2010, we are now content in marine fuels.
With effect from 1 January 2012 the global limit preparing registration dossiers for substances manufactured or imported of sulphur content in marine fuels was reduced and now shall not in amounts in the range 100-1,000 tonnes per annum legal entity that are exceed 3.50%.
This global limit will be further reduced to 0.5% in 2020, due to be submitted before 1 June 2013.
Some substances registered provided there is enough fuel available.
Annex VI also provides for previously in 2010, including substances that we use that are supplied to stricter sulphur emission restrictions on ships in SOx Emission Control us by third parties, are now subject to thorough evaluation and or potential Areas SECAs.
EU ports and inland waterways and the North Sea and authorization restriction procedures by the European Chemicals Agency Baltic Sea have been covered by SECAs since 2010 imposing a sulphur and EU Member state authorities.
Legislation similar to REACH is in place content limit of 0.1%.
These restrictions require the use of compliant in Turkey, which requires the registration of manufactured and imported heavy fuel oil HFO or distillate, or the installation of abatement chemicals.
These restrictions are expected to place t In addition, Europe has adopted the UN Global Harmonization System additional costs on reneries producing marine fuel, including costs to for hazard classication and labelling of chemicals and products through dispose of sulphur, as well as increased GHG emissions and energy the Classication Labelling and Packaging CLP Regulation.
This costs for additional rening.
requires BP to assess the hazards of all of our chemicals and products To meet its financial responsibility requirements, BP Shipping maintains against new criteria and will, over time, result in significant changes to marine liability pollution insurance to a maximum limit of $1 billion for each warning labels and material safety data sheets.
All our European occurrence through mutual insurance associations P&I Clubs but there Material Safety Data Sheets will need to be updated to include both can be no assurance that a spill will necessarily be adequately covered by REACH and CLP information.
We have already completed updates for insurance or that liabilities will not exceed insurance recoveries.
all chemical substances we manufacture and market in the EU by the compliance deadline in 2011, and have implemented a process to Greenhouse gas regulation maintain compliance in our European operations.
We have also notied Increasing concerns about climate change have led to a number of the European Chemicals Agency of hazard classications for our international climate agreements and negotiations are ongoing.
manufactured and imported chemicals, for inclusion in a publicly At the UN summit in Cancun in December 2010, the parties to the UN available inventory of hazardous chemicals.
CLP will also apply to mixtures e. g. lubricants by 2015.
Activities covered by both CLP and Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC reached formal agreement on a balanced package of measures to 2020.
The Cancun REACH are subject to possible enforcement activity by national regulatory authorities.
Agreement recognizes that deep cuts in global GHG emissions are required to hold the increase in global temperature to below 2C.
t In the UK, significant health and safety legislation affecting BP includes Signatories formally committed to carbon reduction targets or actions the Health and Safety at Work Act and regulations and the Control of by 2020.
Around 114 countries, including all the major economies and Major Accident Hazards Regulations.
many developing countries, have made such commitments supplemented The EU Commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation on safety currently by an additional 27 parties that have agreed to be listed as of offshore oil and gas prospection, exploration and production activities.
Supporting those efforts, principles were agreed While the proposal at this stage is likely to be adopted in the form of a for monitoring, verifying and reporting emissions reductions: directive rather than a regulation, it aims to introduce a harmonized regime establishment of a green fund to help developing countries limit and aimed at reducing the potential environmental, health and safety impacts adapt to climate change: and measures to protect forests and transfer of the offshore oil and gas industry throughout EU waters.
Although the low-carbon technology to poorer nations.
In November 2011, parties to legislative process is not complete, as proposed, the legislation would not the UNFCCC conference in Durban COP17 agreed several measures.
be entirely aligned with the regime currently operating in the UK and could One was a roadmap for negotiating a legal framework by 2015 for action also, if adopted, have the effect of extending liability for clean-up and on climate change involving all countries by 2020, to close the ambition compensation of environmental damage to marine waters.
gap between existing GHG reduction pledges and what is required to achieve the goal of limiting global temperature rise to 2C.
Another was a Environmental maritime regulations second commitment period for the Kyoto Protocol, to begin immediately BPs shipping operations are subject to extensive national and after the first period.
An amendment was subsequently adopted at the international regulations governing liability, operations, training, spill 2012 conference of parties COP18 in Doha establishing a second prevention and insurance.
These include: commitment period to run until the end of 2020.
However, it will not t In US waters, OPA 90 imposes liability and spill prevention and planning include the US, Canada, Japan and Russia, thus covers only about 15% of requirements governing, among others, tankers, barges and offshore global emissions.
It also mandates a levy on imported and domestically produced Aspects of these international concerns and agreements are reected in oil to fund the oil spill response.
Some states, including Alaska, national and regional measures seeking to limit GHG emissions.
Washington, Oregon and California, impose additional liability for oil Additional, more stringent, measures can be expected in the future.
Outside US territorial waters, BP Shipping tankers are subject to measures can increase BPs production costs for certain products, international liability, spill response and preparedness regulations under increase demand for competing energy alternatives or products with the UNs International Maritime Organization, including the International 96 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth lower-carbon intensity and affect the sales and specications of many of The EPA nalized permitting requirements for new or modied large BPs products.
Current measures and developments potentially affecting GHG emission sources in 2010, with these regulations taking effect BPs businesses include the following: in January 2011, the second phase taking effect on 1 July 2011 and the third phase nalized on 29 June 2012. t The European Union EU has agreed an overall GHG reduction target of In a legal settlement with environmental advocacy groups the EPA 20% by 2020.
To meet this, a Climate and Energy Package of committed to propose regulations under their New Source regulatory measures has been adopted including: national reduction Performance Standards NSPS for GHG emissions from reneries targets for emissions not covered by the EUETS: binding national by December 2011 and to nalize these by November 2012.
These renewable energy targets to double renewable energy in the EU deadlines were not met and it is not known when or if EPA will including at least a 10% share of final energy in transport: a legal propose regulations for reneries under their NSPS provisions.
framework to promote carbon capture and storage CCS : and a revised EUETS Phase 3.
EUETS revisions include a GHG reduction of 21% from Legal challenges to the EPAs efforts to regulate GHG emissions 2005 levels, a significant increase in allowance auctioning, an expanded through the CAA continue along with active political debate with the scope sectors and gases, no free allocations for electricity production final content and scope of GHG regulation in the US remaining but free allocations for energy-intense and trade-exposed industrial uncertain.
Finally, EU energy efficiency policy is currently addressed via t A number of additional state and regional initiatives in the US will affect national energy efficiency action plans and the Energy efficiency our operations.
Of particular signicance, California is seeking to reduce Directive adopted in 2012.
GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 and to reduce the carbon t Article 7a of the revised EU Fuel Quality Directive requires fuel suppliers intensity of transport fuel sold in the state, California implemented a to reduce the life cycle GHG emissions per unit of fuel and energy low-carbon fuel standard in 2010.
Although legal challenges continue, supplied in certain transport markets.
the preliminary injunction stopping implementation was lifted and implementation of the programme continues.
The California cap and t Australia has committed to reduce its GHG emissions by at least 5% trade programme started in January 2012 with the first auctions of below 2000 levels by 2020.
In support of this, a Clean Energy legislative carbon allowances held in November 2012 and obligations commencing package of 19 bills was passed in November 2011, which includes in 2013. imposing a carbon price on the top 500 emitting entities meeting the thresholds in the bill.
The carbon price took effect on 1 July 2012 with a t Canada has established an action plan to reduce emissions to 17% xed price of $23 Australian dollars indexed to forecast ination until below 2005 levels by 2020 and the national government continues to 1 July 2015, an international linked price trading with oor and ceiling seek a co-ordinated approach with the US on environmental and energy prices from 1 July 2015 through to 1 July 2018, and a market-based objectives.
Additionally, Canadas highest emitting province, Alberta, price trading forward.
A certain portion of allowances will be has been running a market mechanism to reduce GHG since 2007. distributed to emission intensive trade exposed businesses for no Controversy, partially driven by perceived GHG intensity regarding cost: this transitional support decreases with time.
The majority of our Canadian oil sand produced crude, continues with some jurisdictions Australia business emissions will be subject to the pricing scheme and contemplating policies to restrict or penalize its use.
will require additional expenditures for compliance.
t China has committed to reducing carbon intensity of GDP 40-45% t New Zealand has agreed to cut GHG emissions by 10-20% below 1990 below 2005 levels by 2020 and increasing the share of non-fossil fuels levels by 2020, subject to a comprehensive global agreement for in total energy consumption from 7.5% in 2005 to 15% by 2020.
The emissions reductions coming into force.
New Zealands emission countrys 12th 2011-2015 Development Programme has set the target trading scheme NZ ETS commenced on 1 July 2010 for transport to reduce carbon intensity by 17% within five years, and this national fuels, industrial processes and stationary energy.
New Zealand also target has been deconstructed into provincial ones for local actions.
employs a portfolio of mandatory and voluntary complementary Meanwhile, two provinces and five cities are developing pilot schemes measures aimed at GHG reductions.
New Zealand has announced its for emissions trading.
As part of the countrys energy saving intention to make its next commitments for GHG reduction under the programme, the government also requires any operating entity with UN Framework Convention rather than the Kyoto treaty.
annual energy consumption of 10 thousand tonnes of coal equivalent 7ktoe a to have an energy saving target for the next five years.
A t In the US, with the potential for passing comprehensive climate number of BP joint venture companies in China will be required to legislation remaining very unlikely, the US Environmental Protection participate in these initiatives.
Agency EPA continues to pursue regulatory measures to address GHGs under the Clean Air Act CAA.
In late 2009, the EPA released a GHG endangerment nding to establish its authority to regulate GHG emissions under the CAA.
Subsequent to this, the EPA nalized regulations imposing light duty vehicle emissions standards for GHGs.
The EPA nalized the initial GHG mandatory reporting rule GHGMRR in 2009 and continues to make amendments to the rule.
Reports under the GHGMRR are due annually.
The majority of BPs US businesses are affected by the GHGMRR and submitted their GHG emissions reports to the EPA under the GHGMRR on or before the required deadlines.
In addition to direct emissions from affected facilities, producers and importers exporters of petroleum products, certain natural gas liquids and GHGs are required to report product volumes and notional GHG emissions as if these products were fully combusted.
The EPA is expected to publically release direct and product emission early in 2013 with certain condential business information protections.
Business review: BP in more depth 97 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 comparable basis, year on year, by adjusting for the effects of these Certain denitions non-operating items and fair value accounting effects.
The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for the group is profit or loss for the Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the year attributable to BP shareholders.
The nearest equivalent measure on meaning shown below: an IFRS basis for segments is RC profit or loss before interest and taxation.
Replacement cost profit Non-GAAP information on fair value accounting effects Replacement cost RC profit or loss reects the replacement cost of BP uses derivative instruments to manage the economic exposure supplies and is arrived at by excluding inventory holding gains and losses relating to inventories above normal operating requirements of crude oil, from profit or loss.
IFRS requires that the measure of profit or loss natural gas and petroleum products.
Under IFRS, these inventories are disclosed for each operating segment is the measure that is provided recorded at historic cost.
The related derivative instruments, however, are regularly to the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of required to be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized in performance assessment and resource allocation.
For BP, both RC profit income because hedge accounting is either not permitted or not followed, or loss before interest and tax and underlying RC profit or loss before principally due to the impracticality of effectiveness testing requirements.
interest and tax are provided regularly to the chief operating decision Therefore, measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains and maker.
In such cases IFRS requires that the measure of profit disclosed losses occur.
Gains and losses on these inventories are not recognized for each operating segment is the measure that is closest to IFRS, which until the commodity is sold in a subsequent accounting period.
Gains and for BP is RC profit or loss before interest and tax.
RC profit or loss for the losses on the related derivative commodity contracts are recognized in the group is not a recognized GAAP measure.
The nearest equivalent GAAP income statement from the time the derivative commodity contract is measure is profit or loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
BP entered into on a fair value basis using forward prices consistent with the believes that replacement cost profit before interest and taxation for the contract maturity.
group is a useful measure for investors because it is a profitability measure used by management.
A reconciliation is provided between the BP enters into commodity contracts to meet certain business requirements, such as the purchase of crude for a renery or the sale of total of the operating segments measures of profit or loss and the group profit or loss before taxation, as required under IFRS.
See Financial BPs gas production.
Under IFRS these contracts are treated as derivatives and are required to be fair valued when they are managed as statements Note 6 on page 203. part of a larger portfolio of similar transactions.
Gains and losses arising Inventory holding gains and losses are recognized in the income statement from the time the derivative Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the commodity contract is entered into.
cost of sales calculated using the average cost to BP of supplies acquired IFRS requires that inventory held for trading be recorded at its fair value during the period and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out using period end spot prices whereas any related derivative commodity FIFO method after adjusting for any changes in provisions where the net instruments are required to be recorded at values based on forward prices realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost.
Under the FIFO consistent with the contract maturity.
Depending on market conditions, method, which we use for IFRS reporting, the cost of inventory charged these forward prices can be either higher or lower than spot prices to the income statement is based on its historic cost of purchase, or resulting in measurement differences.
manufacture, rather than its replacement cost.
In volatile energy markets, this can have a significant distorting effect on reported income.
The BP enters into contracts for pipelines and storage capacity, oil and gas amounts disclosed represent the difference between the charge to the processing and liqueed natural gas LNG that, under IFRS, are recorded income statement for inventory on a FIFO basis after adjusting for any on an accruals basis.
These contracts are risk-managed using a variety of related movements in net realizable value provisions and the charge that derivative instruments, which are fair valued under IFRS.
This results in would have arisen if an average cost of supplies was used for the period.
measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses.
For this purpose, the average cost of supplies during the period is The way that BP manages the economic exposures described above, and principally calculated on a monthly basis by dividing the total cost of measures performance internally, differs from the way these activities are inventory acquired in the period by the number of barrels acquired.
BP calculates this difference for consolidated amounts disclosed are not separately reected in the financial statements entities by comparing the IFRS result with managements internal as a gain or loss.
No adjustment is made in respect of the cost of measure of performance.
Under managements internal measure of inventories held as part of a trading position and certain other temporary performance the inventory, capacity, oil and gas processing and LNG inventory positions.
contracts in question are valued based on fair value using relevant forward Management believes this information is useful to illustrate to investors prices prevailing at the end of the period and the commodity contracts for the fact that crude oil and product prices can vary signicantly from period business requirements are accounted for on an accruals basis.
We believe to period and that the impact on our reported result under IFRS can be that disclosing managements estimate of this difference provides useful significant.
Inventory holding gains and losses vary from period to period information for investors because it enables investors to see the economic due principally to changes in oil prices as well as changes to underlying effect of these activities as a whole.
The impacts of fair value accounting inventory levels.
In order for investors to understand the operating effects, relative to managements internal measure of performance and a performance of the group excluding the impact of oil price changes on the reconciliation to GAAP information is shown on page 37. replacement of inventories, and to make comparisons of operating Commodity trading contracts performance between reporting periods, BPs management believes it is BPs Upstream and Downstream segments both participate in regional helpful to disclose this information.
and global commodity trading markets in order to manage, transact and Underlying replacement cost profit hedge the crude oil, rened products and natural gas that the group either Underlying RC profit or loss is RC profit or loss after adjusting for produces or consumes in its manufacturing operations.
These physical non-operating items and fair value accounting effects.
Underlying RC trading activities, together with associated incremental trading profit or loss and fair value accounting effects are not recognized GAAP opportunities, are discussed further in Upstream on page 71 and in measures.
On page 37 we provide additional information on the nonDownstream on page 77.
The range of contracts the group enters into in operating items and fair value accounting effects that are used to arrive at its commodity trading operations is as follows.
underlying RC profit or loss in order to enable a full understanding of the Exchange-traded commodity derivatives events and their financial impact.
These contracts are typically in the form of futures and options traded on BP believes that underlying RC profit or loss before interest and taxation is a recognized exchange, such as Nymex, SGX and ICE.
Such contracts are a useful measure for investors because it is a measure closely tracked by traded in standard specications for the main marker crude oils, such as management to evaluate BPs operating performance and to make Brent and West Texas Intermediate, the main product grades, such as financial, strategic and operating decisions and because it may help gasoline and gasoil, and for natural gas and power.
Gains and losses, investors to understand and evaluate, in the same manner as otherwise referred to as variation margins, are settled on a daily basis with management, the underlying trends in BPs operational performance on a the relevant exchange.
These contracts are used for the trading and risk 98 Business review: BP in more depth BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Business review: BP in more depth management of crude oil, rened products, natural gas and power.
Jointly controlled asset Realized and unrealized gains and losses on exchange-traded commodity A joint venture where the venturers jointly control, and often have a direct derivatives are included in sales and other operating revenues for ownership interest in the assets of the venture.
The assets are used to accounting purposes.
obtain benets for the venturers.
Each venturer may take a share of the Over-the-counter contracts output from the assets and each bears an agreed share of the expenses These contracts are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and options.
Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between counterparties: Jointly controlled entity others may be cleared by a central clearing counterparty.
These contracts A joint venture that involves the establishment of a corporation, partnership can be used both for trading and risk management activities.
Realized and or other entity in which each venturer has an interest.
A contractual unrealized gains and losses on over-the-counter OTC contracts are arrangement between the venturers establishes joint control over the included in sales and other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
economic activity of the entity.
The main grades of crude oil bought and sold forward using standard contracts are West Texas Intermediate and a standard North Sea crude Subsidiary blend Brent, Forties and Oseberg or BFO.
Although the contracts specify An entity that is controlled by the BP group.
Control is the power to physical delivery terms for each crude blend, a significant number are not govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain the settled physically.
The contracts typically contain standard delivery, pricing benets from its activities.
Additionally, the BFO contract species a standard PSA volume and tolerance given that the physically settled transactions are delivered by cargo.
A production-sharing agreement PSA is an arrangement through which an oil company bears the risks and costs of exploration, development and Gas and power OTC markets are highly developed in North America and production.
In return, if exploration is successful, the oil company receives the UK, where the commodities can be bought and sold for delivery in entitlement to variable physical volumes of hydrocarbons, representing future periods.
These contracts are negotiated between two parties to recovery of the costs incurred and a stipulated share of the production purchase and sell gas and power at a specified price, with delivery and remaining after such cost recovery.
Typically, these contracts specify delivery terms for the underlying commodity.
Certain of these transactions are not settled physically, which can be achieved by transacting offsetting sale or purchase contracts for the same location and delivery period that are offset during the scheduling of delivery or dispatch.
The contracts contain standard terms such as delivery point, pricing mechanism, settlement terms and specication of the commodity.
Typically, volume and price are the main variable terms.
Swaps are often contractual obligations to exchange cash ows between two parties: a typical swap transaction usually references a oating price and a xed price with the net difference of the cash ows being settled.
Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell crude, oil products, natural gas or power at a specified price on or before a specic future date.
Amounts under these derivative financial instruments are settled at expiry.
Typically, netting agreements are used to limit credit exposure and support liquidity.
Spot and term contracts Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the market price prevailing on or around the delivery date when title to the inventory is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though spot and term contracts may have a standard form, there is no offsetting mechanism in place.
These transactions result in physical delivery with operational and price risk.
Spot and term contracts typically relate to purchases of crude for a renery, purchases of products for marketing, purchases of third-party natural gas, sales of the groups oil production, sales of the groups oil products and sales of the groups gas production to third parties.
For accounting purposes, spot and term sales are included in sales and other operating revenues, when title passes.
Similarly, spot and term purchases are included in purchases for accounting purposes.
Associate An entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, over which the group has significant inuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of an entity but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Joint control Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only when the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control the venturers.
Joint venture A contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Business review: BP in more depth 99 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 100 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
