Whatever the storage requirement, we will find the best solution with unrivalled customer service.
Our friendly and helpful staff are one of the main reasons why customers choose Big Yellow.
6,400 online reviews, with an average customer service score of 4.7 out of 5, are testament to this.
Our staff are our most important asset.
Our recruiting and training programmes help us maintain and develop the right calibre of people to ensure success.
We recognise the importance of regular communication and consultation with all staff and encourage a culture of partnership within the business, through bonus and incentive schemes.
In 2012, Big Yellow was named as one of The Sunday Times Best 100 Companies to work for.
For a first time using a storage facility, this was a fantastic experience.
It was really easy to set-up, and I liked the online checkin to save time.
It was fantastic customer service from front-ofhouse staff which is a true rarity these days.
I would recommend it to others.
Thomas, customer at Big Yellow Kennington The best product with unrivalled customer Tipin Main H SE ER AV D II C N EG At Big Yellow, we are always looking for innovative ways to improve the customer experience and make the business more environmentally sustainable.
We continually analyse and improve the web journey for online visitors and launched a mobile website in 2011.
This development ensures the rapidly growing number of mobile web users have a better online experience of Big Yellow.
The use of video store tours on the website has helped to show our web visitors what they can expect from a Big Yellow store, without leaving home.
Additionally, our customers like our online check-in which speeds up their move in process.
Innovative building design is part of our commitment to a more sustainable business.
We look to incorporate the latest technologies such as energy efficient lighting and solar panels to reduce our carbon foot print and produce our own renewable energy.
Online quotes and check-in, as well as the website tips and advice, helped streamline the whole process.
Kim, customer at Big Yellow Liverpool Customer focussed with an eye on pioneering Tipin Main H IN EN AO DV IN AG TION
