Group business review Our business model TOP 5 UK REITS TABLE 19 We are the largest Real Estate Investment Trust REIT in the UK by market Mkt cap Rank Company name m capitalisation.
We own, develop and manage commercial property through two 1 Land Securities Group PLC 5,630 business divisions the Retail Portfolio and the London Portfolio.
We manage our 2 British Land PLC 4,266 two divisions through the property markets cycles, adjusting key investment and 3 Hammerson plc 2,957 development activities ahead of changing conditions to maximise return and 4 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 2,851 minimise risk.
All of our property activities take place in the UK.
5 Derwent London plc 1,774 Source: Datastream, as at 31 March 2012.
Our customers The Groups largest customer is Central Government, who account for 6% of the rental income on our combined portfolio.
The Retail Portfolios largest customer, Customer satisfaction aside from Accor hotels, is Arcadia, who account for 2.5% of the rental income Once again, we carried out a Real Service survey of retailers at shopping centres to on the portfolio.
The London Portfolios largest customer, aside from Central measure their perception of our service levels.
The accompanying commentary Government, is Royal Bank of Scotland who account for 2.9% of the rental income from Real Service stated that impressive levels of overall satisfaction were on the portfolio.
Table 22 shows our top 12 occupiers.
maintained in a very difficult trading environment, along with strong operational In Retail, the level of retailer voids has decreased, but we continue to see tough performance retailers say Land Securities know how to run shopping centres.
commercial conditions for many occupiers.
During the year we worked closely with Results on a scale of 1 very poor to 5 excellent included: occupiers to help them develop new and better ways to minimise costs and trade Responsiveness 4.20 4.21 last year successfully.
We try to maximise value for money for service charge payers, and Understanding needs 4.05 4.03 last year we now enable all of our occupiers to discuss proposed charges with us during the Willingness to recommend 98% 98% last year budgeting process an improvement we introduced in 2010.
We share our plans Communication 4.08 4.07 last year before budgets are nalised, so retailers can query and inuence final costs and Overall satisfaction 4.03 4.07 last year.
We also provide a breakdown of service charges at all of our Adjusted from 4.05 reported in last years Annual Report.
shopping centres and retail parks, so occupiers can see how their charge compares to those elsewhere.
We also built on last years very strong improvements in customer satisfaction We have further strengthened relationships with retailers by introducing a scores in London.
Key gures included: new retailer liaison role at our major shopping centres.
Reporting directly to the Responsiveness 83.8% 80.3% last year centre director, the liaison manager helps ensure we understand and address Understanding needs 93.4% 89.6% last year retailers changing needs.
Willingness to recommend 83.6% 80% last year On the leasing side, our Clearlet leases are helping to simplify leasing activity.
Communication 83.2% 84.7% last year Introduced in 2009, these are shorter and simpler than previous standard leases.
Overall satisfaction based on the four key satisfaction measures 86% They help to reduce the time and costs involved in a deal, for both sides.
The interactions that take place between our employees and shoppers help determine the success of a centre or park, and the retailers trading there.
Our Our people Customer Service DNA programme enables employees to develop the way they Our objective is to attract, retain and develop the brightest and best people in welcome people to our properties and assist them in their visit.
Last year we rolled property.
We want them to make the most of their talents and abilities, and aspire out the programme to seven shopping centres.
This year it was put in place at all of to be the best at what they do.
We want our employees to be ambitious and our centres.
We also brought in consultants On Brand Partners to further improve accountable.
We are continuing to build a performance culture that encourages our training and make it as consistent as possible across the portfolio.
and rewards the individuals who create value for the Company.
In London, we have continued to hone the way we support occupiers.
We are committed to equal opportunities and a diverse and inclusive Previously organised into three units, we now have two dedicated occupier teams workplace in which everyone is treated with respect.
Our adherence to the UN covering all of our activities.
The West End team is located in Portland House, SW1.
Declaration of Human Rights underpins all our policies, systems and actions.
The City and Mid-town team is located in New Street Square, EC4.
This has We are working to develop leadership skills at all levels of the Company, simplied our operations and made us better aligned with agents and others in our and are identifying future leaders earlier in their career.
We encourage people to industry.
Both teams include individuals from financial management and property speak up and listen to others.
And we support any management, which ensures occupiers receive a seamless service rather than employee who volunteers to provide additional support to local communities.
having to work with different Land Securities teams to address different requirements.
Our open door policy means occupiers can come in at any time to discuss issues or make suggestions.
This underlines the continuing value of face-to-face meetings and good relationships.
38 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Group business review We believe our position as the UKs largest REIT provides us with advantages LEASE MATURITIES EXPIRIES AND BREAK CLAUSES when attracting new talent and providing career development opportunities for % OF PORTFOLIO RENTAL INCOME CHART 21 our employees.
There is increasing emphasis on internal promotion, with greater 7.3 opportunity for employees to move up and across the business as they develop 6.5 6.3 6.0 their capabilities and experience.
We increasingly look to compare our employee 3.9 development and culture with high-performance companies in general, rather than others in our industry.
1.8 During the year we refreshed our annual employee engagement survey, adding a stronger emphasis on engagement and performance.
The overall response Holding 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 rate of 83% was good, and up 1% on the previous year.
Key findings included: over 92% said Overall, I am satisfied working for Land Securities Year to 31 March 94% of respondents said I am proud to work for Land Securities London Portfolio excluding pre-development properties 94% said I believe strongly in the goals and objectives of Land Securities Retail Portfolio excluding pre-development properties London expiries on pre-development properties Our suppliers Retail expiries on pre-development properties Along with our own employees, we also have an effect on the performance and opportunities of individuals employed by our major suppliers and contractors.
We place increasing importance on enabling companies local Through development, we are creating jobs and career opportunities during a to a scheme to benefit from our investment in the area, where possible.
difficult time in the economy.
Successful development is leading to further In London, our asset management teams monitor the performance of employment opportunities when new schemes open.
We are continuing to contractors very closely.
The most significant activities carried out by suppliers work closely with major suppliers to ensure their people are well trained, and include cleaning, security, engineering, waste management and concierge services.
we expect all of our partners to uphold our high standards for health and safety.
We are currently carrying out a retendering programme across a number of assets Across the Group, we have a robust tendering process to ensure we get the and expect this to generate significant cost savings while ensuring we continue to best value from our supplier relationships.
We monitor the performance of each provide high levels of service for our occupiers.
We particularly look for suppliers supplier very carefully.
We always strive to form an effective partnership with a with a low turnover of employees, as employee satisfaction and performance are supplier, so we can work together to achieve mutual advantage.
strong indicators of motivation, good management and a commitment to quality.
In retail asset management, the most significant activities carried out by We believe the best performance is achieved when our service partners are able to suppliers are cleaning, security and mechanical electrical services.
We have access discuss issues and suggestions openly with us and other suppliers.
To support this, to a good number of potential suppliers in all key areas, which helps to mitigate we have established a service partner board.
Chaired by one of our service partners, supply-related risk.
the board provides a valuable forum for open discussion and new ideas.
In retail development, the most significant activities carried out by suppliers In London development, the most significant activities carried out by suppliers are construction, construction-related trades and architectural services.
In are construction, construction-related trades and architectural services.
We construction, we work with all of the major rms active in the UK.
We look for generally work with service partners who have a very strong track record on partners who have scale, proven capabilities, a sound ownership structure, a strong previous Land Securities schemes companies we know and trust.
Most contracts track record and a commitment to meeting and setting high standards.
Either are on a design and build basis, with the balance of risk falling to the service directly or through our service partners, we employ a wide range of trades partners.
At our joint venture schemes at 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, and Victoria Circle, SW1, the contracts are on a contractor management basis, with the balance FLOORSPACE CHART 20 of risk falling to Land Securities and our joint venture partner.
This year saw the fourth year of decline in the UK construction sector, so there is plenty of supply in 2 Total Floorspace 2.43m the construction market and we are gaining very competitive estimates during the tendering process.
Our strategy is to benefit from lower construction costs now, 2 London Portfolio 0.81m while timing the completion of our schemes so we deliver space into a market with rising rents and investment values.
2 Retail Portfolio 1.62m Land Securities Annual Report 2012 39 Group business review Our communities Our environment We work hard to understand and meet the needs of local people.
We want our Land Securities continues to lead the way on sustainability.
No other property buildings to be part of not apart from the area and community in which they developer sets such tough targets.
No other developer has pioneered so many are located.
We were the first company in our sector to have an With each major development or asset management initiative, we consult Energy Manager and first to have an Environment Manager.
We were the first to with all interested parties well before the first brick is laid.
We work closely with publish a standard environment report, and the only property company to take Local Authorities, community agencies and voluntary groups to create part in the Voluntary Emissions Trading Scheme.
We were the first to obtain the employment, education and enterprise opportunities.
And we link up with national Carbon Trust Standard, and first to qualify for Environmental Management and local charities, so our buildings can help to connect people with causes they Standard 14001.
We are a Planet Positive business and were one of the first care about.
companies to sign up to the 10:10 campaign for carbon emission reductions.
Our employees involve themselves in charitable work by donating or raising We want to be regarded as a key partner to local and national government on money or volunteering their time.
The Land Securities Foundation supports the matters related to the sustainability of commercial property.
We have increased efforts of our volunteers.
It also awards bursaries and runs our Give As You Earn our engagement with policy makers at all levels, providing insights on issues from scheme to encourage charitable donations from employees.
the commercial property industrys perspective.
For example, in June 2012 we ran Our investments in new development schemes mean we play a particularly a conference for policy makers, businesses and property companies looking in important role in providing employment and training opportunities in some detail at the relationship between financial value and environmental performance.
We are constantly evolving our apprenticeship schemes, and we have Finding better ways to incentivise investment in sustainable approaches will specic initiatives to help groups who are furthest from the job market, including prove vital, as the UK works towards meeting its ambitious carbon emission ex-offenders, young people with no experience and the long-term unemployed.
Retrotting commercial property in the UK will be a particularly difficult and important challenge.
For Land Securities, investments made to improve environmental performance today should help to protect us from changes TOP 12 OCCUPIERS TABLE 22 to regulation tomorrow, but we also hope to see a growing premium for buildings % of 1 Group rent that offer high levels of environmental performance.
2 Central Government including Queen Annes Gate, SW1 6.0 For more on our work with our communities, people, suppliers and the Accor 4.7 environment, please see the Corporate Responsibility section on p62 69.
Royal Bank of Scotland 2.9 Deloitte 2.6 Arcadia Group 2.5 Sainsburys 1.9 Bank of New York Mellon 1.5 Dixons Retail 1.5 Next 1.4 Boots 1.4 Primark 1.4 Taylor Wessing 1.4 29.2 1.
Includes share of joint ventures.
Rent from Central Government excluding Queen Annes Gate, SW1 is 1.1%.
