business review HOW IS THE WEST END EVOLVING?
We invest in real estate in Londons West End, a location which has The West Ends many unique features and attractions have many unique features which bring prosperity, resilience and evolved over many generations so that it is now a world-class international tourist destination as well as a mecca for opportunity to the local economy.
We focus on central locations close to a renowned concentration of world-class attractions which, Londoners and visitors from across the UK.
It is also an together with unmatched shopping and leisure choices, attract huge important business centre, particularly for the fashion, media, numbers of domestic and overseas visitors.
creative and information technology sectors.
Our strategy is to: To maintain its wide appeal and continue its record of prosperity, the West End continues to evolve in response to an 3URGXFH VXVWDLQDEOH JURZWK LQ RXU UHYHQXH WKURXJK ever-changing world.
It has to meet the rising expectations of long-term investment in, and management of, our property those who choose to spend their leisure time here, as well as holdings: providing accommodation and the infrastructure required by 'HOLYHU WKLV JURZLQJ LQFRPH VWUHDP WR VKDUHKROGHUV businesses.
throughdividends: and Westminster City Council has recently established a, QFUHDVH WKH YDOXH RI RXU SRUWIROLR DQG RI VKDUHKROGHUV commission to consider the unique operational and strategic investment in our business through a combination of rising challenges faced by the West End.
In 2013, it will make income and a concentration on uses which have low levels of recommendations for a long-term framework of policies to obsolescence.
ensure the West End continues to meet the needs and expectations of all stakeholders as a place to visit, work and WHY LONDONS WEST END?
London is one of the worlds principal global cities.
Its long and Areas in and around the West End continue to attract exceptional history has created a major location for business as considerable investment both in buildings and infrastructure.
well as an unrivalled variety of heritage and cultural There are important schemes under way to add to the attractions.
For generations these unique features have availability of good-quality office accommodation to cater for attracted commerce and visitors from all parts of the world, the growing number of national and international businesses bringing prosperity to the city.
Its international appeal means it seeking a base in the West End.
Those offices add to the very has a broad economic base which is not reliant on the fortunes important local working population of often younger, affluent of the UK economy alone.
people who are potential customers for our shops, restaurants, Shaftesburys management team has a long history of working cafes and bars.
Our experience has been that, as a result of the West Ends particular features, real estate in our central locations has shown great resilience.
Constrained supply of commercial space, tight planning regulations and demand from a wide variety of occupiers underpin the rental growth prospects and value of our portfolio.
Historically, during downturns in the economy or the property market, tenant demand and rental levels, particularly for non-office uses, have been much less affected, and capital values have been much more stable than the wider market.
LONDON AND THE WEST END London The West End LIWK ODUJHVW FLW LQ WKH ZRUOG E '3 VWLPDWHG PLOOLRQ YLVLWV DQQXDOO DUJHVW FLW LQ XURSH LQ WHUPV RI SRSXODWLRQ DQG '3 DYRXULWH GHVWLQDWLRQ IRU RQGRQHUV DQG PLOOLRQ SHRSOH LQ Southern England who are easily able to visit for the day 2QH RI WKH ODUJHVW ILQDQFLDO FHQWUHV LQ WKH ZRUOG :RUOG FODVV YLVLWRU DWWUDFWLRQV SDODFHV SDUNV DQG KLVWRULFDO VLWHV HQHUDWHV RI 8QLWHG.
LQJGRP '3 8QULYDOOHG FXOWXUDO IDFLOLWLHV RYHU WKHDWUHV FLQHPDV &XUUHQW SRSXODWLRQ RI PLOOLRQ DQG JURZLQJ world-class museums and galleries $ PXOWLFXOWXUDO FLW ODQJXDJHV VSRNHQ &KRLFH RI VKRSV DQG UHVWDXUDQWV XQPDWFKHG E DQ RWKHU FLW &LUFD RI SRSXODWLRQ XQGHU in the world $WWUDFWV PRUH LQWHUQDWLRQDO YLVLWRUV WKDQ DQ RWKHU FLW $ ODUJH ORFDO ZRUNLQJ SRSXODWLRQ D ORFDWLRQ SDUWLFXODUO IRU in the western world media and creative businesses $Q H[WHQVLYH DQG JURZLQJ SXEOLF WUDQVSRUW QHWZRUN SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 14 business review OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION business review continued In addition, we have growing holdings in Soho 6% of our Accessibility to the West End is a key priority, particularly in our locations.
There are estimated to be some 200 million visits to the portfolio and in and around Charlotte Street 3%.
The West End annually and Heathrow alone handles around 35 million concentration of our ownerships in well-known locations, close passenger arrivals annually.
An estimated 210 million passengers to the West Ends principal attractions reflects the importance pass through the six underground stations closest to our villages of the visitor-based economy.
We welcome the considerable investment in the Our wholly owned portfolio comprises over 500 buildings, existing public transport network to improve capacity, reliability virtually all of which contain a mix of uses.
Typically, lower and passenger comfort.
floors contain our most valuable uses of retail, restaurants, The Crossrail project, which will be of great long-term benefit bars and leisure which together provide 73% of current rental to the West End, is now under way.
This major project will income.
Upper floors are either offices, residential or a create a new east-west rail route through London, dramatically combination of both.
improving journey times from the provinces and London The areas in which we invest are long-established, with street suburbs into the West End and relieving pressure on the patterns generally laid out between 1680 and 1720.
They are existing transport network.
Along with other stations on the mostly designated as conservation areas and over 20% of our route, both Tottenham Court Road and Bond Street stations are buildings are listed as being of special architectural interest.
being rebuilt to provide significantly increased passenger capacity.
Whilst this much improved transport infrastructure will benefit Our management strategy is based on creating long-term the West End generally, the majority of our portfolio is within prosperity by establishing and fostering areas in which our five minutes walk of these two important interchanges.
Our commercial tenants are able to flourish and which provide holdings in Seven Dials, Soho and Charlotte Street are close to desirable places to live.
Tottenham Court Road and its new entrance on Dean Street.
Carnaby is close to the new entrance to Bond Street station on Using our detailed local knowledge, gained over many years of Hanover Square.
investing in the West End, we identify well-located areas which have the potential to attract greater footfall and tenant demand As well as delivering greater transport capacity, Crossrail is a because, to date, they have suffered from fragmented catalyst for important regeneration around its stations and ownerships, lack of investment and the absence of a cohesive adjacent streets.
Along the eastern end of Oxford Street there strategy for uses and tenant mix.
Our acquisition strategy is to are already a number of major development schemes totalling establish clusters of ownerships which allows us to address around one million sq.
these problems through a long-term management strategy WHAT DO WE OWN?
It provides us with great flexibility to Our wholly owned portfolio extends to 13 acres of freeholds and accommodate a variety of uses appealing to a broad range of comprises 1,566,000 sq.
ft. of commercial and residential occupiers as well as bringing cohesion and consistency to accommodation.
The Longmartin joint venture, in which we have a 50% interest, Reflecting the importance of shopping and leisure in the West owns a 1.9 acre island site in Covent Garden which includes End, we choose areas and buildings which have, or have the 269,000 sq.
potential for, a predominance of these uses.
Traditionally, demand for these uses has exceeded availability, providing a Our ownerships are clustered in villages in the heart of the firm foundation for rental growth.
Also, as we generally provide West End.
35% of our portfolio by value is in Covent Garden in space for these uses to tenants in shell form, our costs of the districts of Seven Dials, Coliseum, the Opera Quarter and obsolescence are minimal.
StMartins Courtyard, 33% is in Carnaby and 23% is in Chinatown.
CROSSRAIL 0DMRU LQWHUFKDQJHV LQ WKH :HVW QG DW %RQG 6WUHHW DQG $ e ELOOLRQ FRQVWUXFWLRQ SURMHFW LQYROYLQJ WKLUWHHQ PLOHV Tottenham Court Road ofnew tunnels, with seven major transport interchanges between Paddington and Canary Wharf 6WDWLRQ FRQVWUXFWLRQ ZLOO EH FRPSOHWHG LQ ILUVW trains expected to run in 2018 LJK FDSDFLW WUDLQV VHDWV XS WR WUDLQV SHU KRXU atpeak times $GGV WR RQGRQV WUDQVSRUW FDSDFLW DQG UHOLHYHV pressure on existing network RUHFDVW PLOOLRQ MRXUQH V DQQXDOO :HVW QG ZLOO EH ZLWKLQ PLQXWHV RI HDWKURZ DQG 15minutes from Canary Wharf SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 15 business review business review continued We acquire buildings which offer scope for improvement and, QWURGXFLQJ DOWHUQDWLYH XVHV IRU XSSHU IORRUV WR UHSODFH have rental levels we consider to be modest.
Through smaller offices, which suffer from cyclical demand and reconfiguration and refurbishment, we retain the particular obsolescence.
In contrast, demand for residential characters of the historic buildings and the areas in which we accommodation in our lively, cosmopolitan central locations invest whilst creating accommodation which meets the is growing, so we often convert upper floors to apartments, expectations of todays occupiers and provides an environment which we rent rather than sell: and which attracts visitors, businesses and residents.
:RUNLQJ ZLWK ORFDO DXWKRULWLHV DQG FRPPXQLW VWDNHKROGHUV As long-term investors we take a consistent approach to the to improve the public realm in and around our locations.
We management of our holdings.
In our experience a holistic create safe and welcoming areas which meet the standards strategy which fosters and advances all aspects of the of a prosperous, high-profile urban location expected by character of our villages enhances their appeal.
We develop our tenants, their customers and employees, and local residents.
holdings through a combination of: Our office is close to all our investments and we visit our, PSOHPHQWLQJ D FRPSUHKHQVLYH ORQJ WHUP WHQDQW PL[ villages every day.
This allows us to have a regular dialogue strategy for the dominant retail and leisure aspects of the with our tenants, whilst continually adding to our knowledge area, creating distinctive destinations to bring greater footfall and understanding of the dynamics of our areas.
and prosperity: HOW DO WE APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY?
QFRXUDJLQJ QHZ UHWDLO DQG OHLVXUH FRQFHSWV VR WKDW RXU Our policy is to extend the useful lives of existing buildings areas respond to ever-changing tastes and expectations: wherever possible.
We do this by restoring and preserving their 5HVWRULQJ WKH IDEULF RI RIWHQ GLODSLGDWHG EXLOGLQJV UHVSHFWLQJ fabric, improving their efficiency and reconfiguring space to their traditional features, but extending their useful lives to meet the expectations of modern-day commercial and meet the requirements of modern occupiers: residential occupiers.
:KHUHYHU SRVVLEOH PD[LPLVLQJ UHWDLO DQG OHLVXUH XVHV ZLWKLQ We invest in historic areas where street patterns were laid out the lower floors of individual buildings to create more around 300 years ago.
In recognition of their collective efficient and accessible trading space: grouping, as well as their special architectural and historic features, most of our buildings are in designated conservation areas and many are listed.
The average age of our buildings is over 150 years.
In our locations, we find older buildings offer much greater flexibility than modern structures.
We have clusters of considerable experience in bringing them up to modern ownerships standards of efficiency whilst retaining their character.
We holistic, introduce a variety of contemporary and appropriate uses to invest in consistent the local ensure the economic viability of our buildings is improved and management community strategy sustained.
creating prosperity for public realm encourage tenants and improvements mix of uses sustainable rental growth retail and leisure on encourage lower floors, new operators alternative and formats uses on upper floors refurbish reconfigure buildings page 16 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 business review OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION business review continued KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs We work closely with Westminster City Council and the London Borough of Camden, within whose jurisdictions all of our The charts on page 5 set out our performance against our properties are located.
We promote and contribute to the costs chosen benchmarks: the IPD UK Monthly Indices and the FTSE of up-grading streets in and around our villages, giving priority 350 Super Sector Real Estate Index.
to pedestrians and improving street lighting, public safety and Property performance security.
In our experience, investing in public streets and Our key financial objectives are sustainable out-performance spaces is an important catalyst for regeneration through and growth in rental and capital values.
There is no property increasing footfall and accessibility.
A better public performance index which relates specifically to a portfolio of environment encourages visitors to spend more time in our mixed-use buildings such as ours.
Therefore, we use the IPD villages, bringing greater prosperity to our commercial tenants, UK Monthly Capital Value and Total Return Indices, which as well as benefiting the residential community.
track all main commercial property categories across the UK, In the day-to-day management of our holdings we place great as our benchmark.
emphasis on minimising the environmental impact of our We have continued to outperform the IPD monthly indices in operations.
We work with our advisors and suppliers to ensure 2012, as set out on page 5.
Since 2007 our values have risen environmental standards and targets for improvement are 5%, which is in contrast to our benchmark index which has established across our portfolio.
Further information is set out reported a decline in capital values of 35% over the same in Corporate Responsibility on pages 42 to 46. period.
HOW DO WE ENGAGE WITH STAKEHOLDERS AND THE The rental prospects of the portfolio are fundamental to COMMUNITY?
The key non-financial performance We have regular contact with our tenants, community groups indicators we use are the extent to which lettings exceed or and other stakeholders in and around our areas.
This provides meet the ERVs assessed by our valuers at the last valuation us with the views of these diverse interest groups and and letting space quickly to minimise vacancy.
The Board is important insights into the challenges faced by the West End, satisfied that, this year, growth in rents and ERVs has more helping us to adapt our plans and co-ordinate with others.
than met its expectations and that lettings have been at or above valuers estimates.
The growth in rents and ERVs over We also work closely with the local authorities in our locations the past five years is shown in the chart on page 8.
Like-forto help with the challenges of managing areas which attract like growth in rents receivable in the year was 2.5%, bringing huge numbers of visitors throughout the day and late into the the five-year average to 4.8% p. a. ERVs grew on a like-for-like night, every day of the week, whilst balancing the needs of local basis by 6.0% in 2012. businesses and residents.
Our leases are structured so that we can ensure that our tenants operations do not detract from the Vacancy continues to remain at low levels, as shown in the chart reputation of the West End.
on page 10, which shows the level of EPRA vacancy over the past five years has been around 3%.
Where space has become We work with stakeholders in the local community by vacant, it has generally been let within acceptable periods.
supporting charities based in our areas and initiatives associated with social issues, community projects and the arts.
7RWDO 6KDUHKROGHU 5HWXUQ Our Total Shareholder Return for the year was 16.0%, delivering returns of 56.4% and 318.7% over five and ten years respectively.
By comparison, the FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate Index was up 19.5% for the year but was down 35.3% and up 66.8% over five and ten years respectively, as set out below and in the charts on page 62.
Our demonstrable outperformance over the longer-term reflects the resilience and qualities of our portfolio and our record of delivering consistent income and capital growth.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN % 1 year 5 years 10 years Shaftesbury 16.0 56.4 318.7 FTSE 350 Super Sector 19.5 -35.3 66.8 Real Estate Index Relative performance -3.5 91.7 251.9 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 17 business review
