SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Operating business and financial review Thierry Falque-Pierrotin Chief Executive Markets throughout Europe were exceptionally difficult in deliver web profitability higher than stores.
As a result the Group took some major steps to web growth opportunities in the newer technologies such as realign its business portfolio, sharpen the implementation multimedia and portable devices, where our penetration is currently of the commercial policy and reduce costs.
We delivered below market levels.
Further improvements continue to be made to an improvement in profitability at our Other established the web offer with extended ranges, payment and delivery options.
businesses and are taking actions to improve performance A common web platform is being introduced progressively to our at Darty France and Developing businesses.
businesses outside France, with wider access to Darty Frances product range and supply chain being put in place, initially for Group strategy Italy and Spain which will provide an extended product range This year we have taken significant steps to restructure the Group.
to consumers in those countries.
Firstly, we exited from the UK market through the sale of Comet.
This removed the ongoing negative impact of the business on the In parallel, our store network will continue to be remodelled.
Firstly, financial position of the Group and the uncertainty of achieving an our mid-size stores allow us to build a competitive store price acceptable level of profitability at Comet over the long term given the positioning against web players and we are developing differential specic competitive nature of the UK market.
It also removed over ranges to reduce direct price comparison.
As we narrow the gap 900 million of operating lease liabilities related to the UK stores.
to web players the higher store cost to serve is offset by higher Secondly, we negotiated a new approach to telecoms in France in a service and accessories penetration.
Secondly, we are enhancing market which is becoming highly competitive.
The deal we announced the customer store experience through better merchandising and with Bouygues Telecom to sell a majority share in Darty Telecom will product demonstration, improved staff training and 100 per cent enable us both to receive valuable future revenue streams from the product availability.
Finally, we are improving our store contribution business and reduce our capital investment.
and network efficiency though improved space allocation, staff productivity improvements and closure of underperforming stores.
The Darty brand is an iconic brand built on the strength of its service to customers and we continue to roll-out the strength of this concept Ensure Darty France takes profitable market share and grows across all our other markets and local brands.
Following the disposal of its top line Comet, we have decided to rename the Group as Darty to reect in our In a declining vision market, focus will be on the home appliances name our iconic brand.
and multimedia product categories with greater space allocation and new merchandising.
The web offer will continue to be enhanced Our short-term priorities are to: and services margin grown through the new telecom agreement with Bouygues and launch of new value added, paid for options in Build on the strength and success of our cross-channel approach home delivery and repair.
At the same time the cost to serve is We have shown that we are able to generate profitable web sales being reduced through reorganisation of store back ofces and whilst growing signicantly faster than the market.
Supported by the multi-tasking: merger of after-sales and home delivery sites: and existing strong brand awareness and infrastructure, we are able to more active store management with closure or relocation of underperforming stores.
14 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Evolve our approach at the Developing businesses to strengthen Photobox, the launch of a mobile app towards the end of the year and our local positions and eliminate losses improved delivery service with the addition of 4,000 collection points Our Developing businesses markets are strategically attractive.
through Kiala, part of the UPS network.
They are large, only now starting to consolidate, with low but growing internet penetration and with clear space for our serviceReecting the competitive market conditions and price-matching web led, specialist concept.
Sharper execution of commercial policy players to defend store footfall and sales, gross margin was down is required in all three countries through product and margin around 60 basis points.
This, together with the fall in revenue, led to management.
Further underperforming stores are to be closed a decline in retail profit to 106.8 million compared to 149.2 million in Italy and Spain, and a new common web platform is being in the prior year.
introduced together with wider and deeper access to Darty Frances product ranges and supply chain.
Actions have been, and continue to be, taken to reduce costs, which were down 2 per cent in the year.
Programmes are adapting back Keep on increasing the Group operating synergies ofce staff in-store and introducing greater multi-tasking: merging home The reorganisation and streamlining of processes between head ofce, delivery and after-sales service centres: and rationalising the store sourcing and Darty France, better utilisation of Group warehouses, network.
Overall the number of full-time equivalent staff FTEs reduced particularly between France and neighbouring countries, and the by around 750 compared to the previous year end, with no adverse development of a common web platform will all improve efficiency impact on customer satisfaction.
Further store reorganisation and in delivering our concept to customers and reducing our overall merger of home delivery and after-sales service centres are planned cost to serve.
Additional efficiencies will be made in home delivery with one-man deliveries, route optimisation and the development of Darty France premium paid for slots.
These actions are expected to at least mitigate After strong market outperformance in the prior year supported by cost inationary pressures.
the World Cup and digital switchover, particularly in the Paris region, Darty France performed in line with a weak market estimated to be Improving the customer offer and store contribution, Darty opened down over 4 per cent.
Growth in white goods and multimedia were venew stores, refurbished extended six and relocated five during insufficient to offset a significant decline in vision sales of over 20 per theperiod.
The reshaping of the portfolio will continue this year with cent.
Total revenue fell by 4.2 per cent compared to the same period the opening of four new locations alongside a specic focus on last year and by 5.8 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
underperforming stores which will result in some store closures.
In addition within the stores, space will be reallocated from vision The Darty website continued to deliver strong growth, with over 100 to multimedia with improved merchandising alongside more limited million visits and improved conversion rates: web-generated sales rebalancing from large to small home appliances.
The very successful increased by 15 per cent to account for 12 per cent of total product kitchen showroom was introduced to a further 11 stores during the sales.
Enhancements were made to the website, with web exclusives year.
A total of 40 stores now have the offer and a further 11 will representing nearly 50 per cent of the range, a dedicated kitchens area, be rolled-out in the coming year, targeting around 6 per cent of the new offers such as a dedicated photo section in partnership with kitchen market.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 15 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Operating business and financial review Darty Box nished the year with 310,000 subscribers in xed line and The benets of the Darty concept continued to be demonstrated.
40,000 mobile subscribers following the launch of a quadruple play Vanden Borre again delivered growth in revenue and profit in a offer xed and mobile telephony, internet and TV in the second half slightly positive market.
BCC saw positive sales and gross margin of the year.
The market, however, became increasingly competitive improvement with significant share gains in the core categories of towards the end of the year.
Darty France has subsequently entered white goods and vision and was around break-even in a slightly into a new agreement with Bouygues Telecom based on the strength negative market.
Datart saw an improvement in the second half of Dartys customer service and distribution network with the quality of the year following its alignment of prices towards web players of Bouyguess mobile and xed line offer.
Under the new agreement and returned to profitability.
Darty France will receive revenue streams for a range of customer and management services it will provide to the existing and future Overall, gross margin was at and retail profit for the period increased subscriber base and the revenue streams taken together with over 26 per cent to 19.6 million compared to 15.5 million in the associated costs and reduced capital expenditure are expected to prior year.
generate a retail profit and cash ow in excess of the current operation.
In the year, six new stores were opened three in The Netherlands: two These revenue streams, taken together with associated costs and in the Czech Republic: and one in Belgium where two refurbishments reduced capital investment, are expected to generate a retail profit and one closure were also completed.
Overall, a further four and cash ow in excess of the current Darty Telecom performance.
new stores are planned for this year, plus two relocations and four Bouygues will also pay 40 million, subject to the usual working capital extensions refurbishments.
and related adjustments, for 99.9 per cent of Darty Telecom.
The deal is expected to complete in the first half of the new financial year and The momentum of these businesses will be built on this year with the it is intended to reinvest the proceeds in the Group.
strengthening of ranges, gaining the benets of a new web platform and further service improvements including the introduction of Other established businesses multimedia support packages and enhanced delivery options.
At the Other established businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre and Datart, despite a challenging first quarter, total revenue increased by 4.6 per Developing businesses cent to 848.0 million, an increase of 4.7 per cent in constant currency Total revenue for the Developing businesses, Darty Italy, Darty Turkey and 3.7 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
and Darty Spain, increased by 2.8 per cent in constant currency and fell 1.7 per cent on a reported basis to 370.5 million.
On a like-for-like Web-generated sales showed consistently strong growth, increasing basis sales fell by 3.3 per cent, predominantly due to the deteriorating by 21 per cent during the period to account for 10 per cent of total market conditions experienced in Italy.
16 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Web-generated sales increased very strongly, by over 160 per cent Outlook from a small base, as we increasingly focus on growing this channel.
The market across Europe is expected to remain tough, but we will Web-generated sales accounted for over 2 per cent of total benefit from the strength of our service-led positioning, cross-channel product sales.
approach and improving operational efficiency.
This year we will keep on growing our profitable web sales: in addition, we will increase our Darty Turkey delivered a solid sales performance, ahead of a positive store network efficiency and reinforce our price positioning: supported market estimated to be up over 20 per cent.
As it rolled-out the Darty by the strength of the brand in France and a new management we will concept, Darty Spain outperformed its market albeit estimated to be put Darty France in a position to take profitable market share and grow down 15 per cent.
After a difficult first half, in the second half of the its top line: adapt our approach in the developing countries to eliminate year Darty Italy outperformed an increasingly difficult market estimated the losses: and accelerate the Group operating synergies.
to be down 11 per cent, but saw sharply contrasting performances across its store portfolio.
Thierry Falque-Pierrotin Chief Executive Gross margin was impacted by the tough market conditions and competitor stock clearance in Spain and Italy.
As a result gross margin was down 230 basis points and the retail loss increased to 41.1 million from 30.8 million in the prior year.
Darty Turkey and Darty Spain saw a small reduction in their losses, but this was outweighed by signicantly increased losses at Darty Italy in a market that became extremely promotion-led as it declined.
In the period, Darty Turkey opened eight new stores and closed one.
Darty Spain and Darty Italy closed five and four stores, respectively, and opened one new store each.
A further five closures in both Italy and Spain are planned for this year, with three openings in Spain and five in Turkey.
In addition to closing lower revenue stores, actions continue to be taken this year to reduce losses.
A sharper implementation of commercial policy will be supported by wider and deeper access to Darty France product ranges for Italy and Spain which will also support web growth from a new, common platform.
Costs will continue to be reduced via rent renegotiations and efficiencies both in-store and central overheads.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 17 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Operating business and financial review Dominic Platt Finance Director Financial review businesses and price adjustments in-store to strengthen price competitiveness against web players.
We have laid out in more detail Results for the Continuing Group our approach to pricing in the Group strategy section of the Operating business and financial review page 14. millions 2011 12 2010 11 Total revenue 4,025.7 4,108.5 Retail profit Retail profit 70.1 117.3 Group retail profit for the period was 70.1 million compared to 1 Adjusted profit before tax 59.0 102.4 117.3 million in the prior year.
This reduction was due to a weaker Loss profit before tax 17.0 85.6 French market that saw pressure on both Darty Frances revenue and Loss profit from continuing operations 39.7 51.1 gross margin that operational efficiencies were insufficient to offset Loss from discontinued operations 274.2 20.4 and a deteriorating market in Italy, partly offset by improvement Loss profit for year 313.9 30.7 in profitability at all three of our Other established businesses.
Adjusted earnings per share cents 6.2 12.6 Basic loss earnings per share cents 7.2 9.9 Reported operating loss was 5.9 million 2011: profit 105.3 million.
Dividend cents 3.5 7.0 This reects Group retail profit, a credit relating to options and related charges over non-controlling interests of 2.1 million 2011: nil, an 1 Excludes the effects of movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests, impairment of available for sale financial assets, exceptional costs, amortisation impairment of 6.5 million 2011: nil relating to the Groups holding and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets, exceptional finance costs and in Go Sport S. A. due to a prolonged reduction in market value and discontinued operations.
exceptional costs of 70.5 million 2011: 11.0 million.
Revenue Exceptional costs Revenue for the Continuing Group was 4,025.7 million, a decline of In France, we have implemented plans to improve efficiencies in stores, 2.0 per cent on a reported basis and 1.6 per cent in constant currency, after-sales service and home delivery as well as across the business compared with the same period last year.
On a like-for-like basis and Group head ofce function.
Charges relating to this reorganisation revenue decreased by 3.5 per cent.
This performance reected a totalled 7.8 million, of which 7.2 million related to Darty France.
In difficult start to the year against the strong World Cup comparatives in addition, certain costs and fees totalling 6.3 million have been incurred the prior year, a very weak vision market compounded by the benets as a result of preparing for and implementing plans to dispose of a digital switchover last year and generally weak underlying market of Darty Telecom.
In contrast, white goods and multimedia saw positive growth.
The strategic focus on web sales continued to deliver with In Italy and Spain, exceptional charges of 9.6 million and 2.6 million double digit growth at all divisions with overall growth of 17 per cent respectively have been taken principally relating to the closure of four to represent 10.5 per cent of total product sales.
stores in Italy with a further five closures in both Italy and Spain planned this year.
In addition, assets were impaired totalling 26.3 million in Italy Gross margin and 17.9 million in Spain, primarily driven by lower projected cash Overall gross margin was down 80 basis points, reecting pressure ows within business plans resulting from adverse changes in the from declining markets, particularly at Darty France and the Developing 18 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW economic environment.
Of these charges totalling 56.4 million, Discontinued operations losses for Comet comprised an operating 10.8 million were incurred in the first half of the financial year.
loss of 20.1 million 2011: loss 10.3 million : a loss on disposal of 90.3 million, reecting a loss on disposal of 58.0 million plus The cash cost related to these exceptional charges is expected to be 32.3 million foreign exchange recycled to the income statement: 21 million, of which 7 million was incurred in the year and 11 million and the charges of 117.1 million booked in the first half of the year in is expected in the new financial year.
respect of impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment and restructuring programmes.
The discontinued tax charge was Finance costs 46.7 million, of which 42.5 million related to the impairment The net finance cost was 11.1 million 2011: 14.9 million, comprising of a deferred tax asset booked in the first half of the year.
finance costs of 12.0 million 2011: 11.6 million and IAS 19 notional pension interest of 2.2 million 2011: 3.8 million, partly offset by Earnings per share finance income of 3.1 million 2011: 0.5 million principally from Adjusted earnings per share for the Continuing Group were 6.2 cents foreign exchange gains.
Net finance cost for 2012 13 is expected 2011: 12.6 cents and basic diluted losses per share were 7.2 cents to be around 14 million.
2011: earnings 9.9 cents due to the exceptional charges.
Total losses per share were 59.2 cents 2011: earnings 6.0 cents.
profit before tax As highlighted in the table on page 18, adjusted profit before tax was Net debt 59.0 million 2011: 102.4 million and reported loss before tax was Total cash outow was 253.5 million which with exchange and other 17.0 million 2011: profit of 85.6 million.
movements of 6.0 million resulted in closing net debt of 126.5 million compared to 121.0 million net cash on 30 April 2011.
Taxation The effective tax rate on adjusted profit before exceptional items, Average draw down in the year of the 455 million revolving credit was including the share of joint venture and associates tax was 47.1 per 230 million 2011: 120 million.
Increased losses in the Developing of the facility was drawn down 2011: 60 million.
The 455 million businesses, on which no tax relief is recognised, have contributed to revolving facility matures in December 2015. the increased tax rate, which is sensitive to changes in geographical mix of profits and losses.
The overall tax rate was 146.6 per cent Cash ow 2011: 40.9 per cent.
An increase in exceptional items on which Of the 253.5 million total cash outow, 174.5 million related to the there is limited tax relief has contributed to the overall tax rate rising disposal of Comet, composed of a free cash outow to disposal of signicantly compared to last year.
31.2 million and 143.3 million net cash outow arising on disposal which included the 50 million investment and pledged funds for the Loss for the year UK extended warranty scheme that were transferred to Comet along Losses for the year from continuing operations were 39.7 million with the related liabilities.
After losses for the year from discontinued operations of 274.2 million 2011: 20.4 million, total losses for the year were 313.9 million 2011: profit 30.7 million.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 19 SECTION 2 BUSINESS REVIEW Operating business and financial review Movement in net debt Impact of Comet disposal Continuing Group 175m 79m 150 121m 100 50 0 -50 -100 127m -150 The remaining cash outow from continuing operations was Balance sheet and financial position 79.0 million.
Cash generated from continuing operations was Largely as a result of the Comet disposal we have reported net liabilities at 30 April 2012 of 117.0 million.
Under our accounting policies, 104.4 million, reecting the lower operating profit, 10.9 million related freehold property is carried at cost.
Our freehold property portfolio in to restructuring programmes and 11.8 million UK pension contributions.
France, representing in the main around one third of the store portfolio, After net capital expenditure and investments of 84.1 million, free cash has a carrying value of approximately 140 million, compared with a ow was 20.3 million.
Capital expenditure for 2012 13 is expected to market valuation of approximately 350 million.
This valuation is further be approximately 70 million, reecting the disposal of Comet and the supported by gains arising from a small number of disposals in the last new telecoms agreement at Darty France.
Cash tax paid increased to year as we continue our active management of the portfolio.
In addition, 54.4 million 2011: 31.5 million as a result of phasing of payments following the disposal of Comet, our off-balance sheet operating lease under the French tax system where payments are based on prior year commitments have reduced from 1,256.0 million to 326.9 million.
profits: the overpayment for 2012 will be recovered in the first half of the new financial year.
Other matters Liquidity and funding Retirement benefit obligations It is the policy of the Group to maintain sufficient committed financial The IAS 19 net pension liability fell from 71.9 million to 69.6 million.
resources to meet its business objectives.
The interest rate, currency The liability is split 40.0 million for the UK 2011: 45.9 million and and maturity proles of the Groups borrowings are disclosed in 29.6 million for France 2011: 26.0 million.
The UK scheme was notes 2 and 23 to the financial statements.
retained by Kesa on disposal of Comet.
It was agreed with the trustees to increase the annual deficit recovery payments to 10.0 million per The Groups principal facility is a 455 million revolving credit facility annum from 6.1 million retrospectively to the date of the last triennial expiring in 2015. valuation date of 31 March 2010, reducing the deficit recovery plan period from March 2018 to March 2015.
During the year ended 30 April 2012, the Group operated well within our banking covenant arrangements.
The retrospective payments calculated from the triennial valuation date resulted in catch-up payments of 3.5 million and 3.65 million in Going concern February and May 2012. deficit recovery payments made in the year The Directors have performed a review of revenue and profit forecasts, to April 2012 total 10.2 million.
expected cash ows, available borrowing facilities and expected compliance with related covenants.
This has provided reasonable Dividend expectation that the Kesa Electricals Group has adequate resources The Board is proposing to rebase the dividend given challenging to continue in operational existence for the next financial year and markets and the uncertain macroeconomic outlook, and will the foreseeable future.
recommend a final dividend of 1.25 cents per share, bringing the total dividend to 3.5 cents per share 2011: 7.0 cents.
The ex-dividend date Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis will be 12 September 2012, the record date 14 September 2012 and in preparing the financial statements.
the payment date will be 5 October 2012.
Dominic Platt Finance Director 20 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 30 April 2011 Comet FCF to disposal Comet investment and fees Comet EW funds Continuing Group FCF Interest and tax Dividends Exchange and other 30 April 2012
