Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business review Global demand for edible collagen casings continued to be very strong in 2012, with growth over 2011 estimated to be more than 10% in volume worldwide.
China accounted for just less than 60% of this growth, and the rest of the world about 40% of the increase.
Demand remains strong in many developed markets.
Peter Page Chief Executive Sales and markets Strong sales in Japan continued, with edible were adversely affected by exchange rate Devros strategy has three parts.
The first is collagen casing revenue increasing by 46%.
movements between the euro and sterling, to increase earnings by developing Despite expansion during the year at our but the demand for Devros casings remains profitable, higher value sales.
In 2012, total facility in Australia, demand for Select very strong in Europe, particularly for Select revenue increased 5.9%, or 8.1% on a continues to exceed our production products.
The technical and customer which now provides 87% of all group sales, service team in Japan has been expanded A small proportion of sales 4%, increased in value by 8.0% on volumes that to ensure we maintain service levels in the predominantly in Europe, involves nonincreased 7.1%.
Sales volumes and revenue market.
In April, over 150 delegates from edible collagen, a form of casing used for from the unique Select range, developed to 35 food manufacturers, retailers and trade air-dried and cured sausages such as replicate the characteristics of top-quality organisations attended a Devro Select traditional salamis.
Sales in this category sheep gut, doubled in 2012.
Select seminar in Tokyo, reflecting the extremely declined by 17% in 2012 compared to represents 8.4% of group revenues, up from high level of interest in this new casing.
Close to 3 billion sausages One Japanese customer received a Gold competition from other suppliers of have been manufactured in Select casing and a Silver DLG medal for products in non-edible collagen and fibrous casings.
since its introduction in May 2010.
Unused capacity for the manufacture of non-edible casings at our Czech plant was Developed markets In the USA and Canada, sales of Devros reallocated to edible collagen, for which 62% of Devros sales of edible collagen edible collagen casings increased 14% there is strong demand.
casings came from developed markets, during the year.
The beefstick sector grew where sales increased by 8.0%, achieved strongly in 2012, following a period of Volumes of edible collagen casing sold in through a long-established network of direct decline over the previous three years.
This the UK declined 8%, due in part to sales, wholly-owned sales offices and some demand was met by Devros Stix range of continuing changes in the product mix local, privately-owned distributors.
The first products, supplied from our factories in the promoted by major retailers, but also component of the revenue part of our Czech Republic, Scotland and South reflecting the variety of better-priced strategy is to achieve growth in these Carolina.
Sales of collagen gel, used for opportunities for Devro elsewhere.
markets by developing and introducing co-extrusion by some high volume The UK and Ireland market is going through differentiated products such as Select, and manufacturers, were successfully a phase of restructuring which will continue also through sustained technical support for maintained as new customers entered the into 2013. customers.
market with applications for hotdogs, which conventionally have used cellulose casings.
Emerging markets Germany is a very attractive market for Devro remains at the forefront of The second component of Devros strategy Devro, with a long tradition of sausage developments in co-extrusion technology in for revenue growth is to develop profitable manufacturing, high levels of per capita the American market.
opportunities in emerging markets, which consumption, and a significant proportion currently account for 38% of our total sales of the market currently using sheep gut.
In Sales volumes in the long-established of edible collagen casings, and which 2012, Devro sales of edible collagen casings markets of Australia and New Zealand were increased 7.8% in 2012.
Population growth, in Germany grew 30%, led by Select, and a similar to prior year, reflecting Devros high higher disposable incomes and increasing new casing for Bratwurst type sausage.
market share in a region where collagen is levels of urbanisation all lead to an increase German industry acceptance of nonalready used on nearly all sausage products.
in the consumption of proteins and also of traditional Select has been vindicated by the With a relatively small consumer base, and more convenient foods which require less fact that three branded consumer products, increasing competition between a limited preparation.
Sausage fits this requirement manufactured using Select, achieved a Gold number of local retailers, we do not expect very well, explaining the continuing rise in medal in assessments by DLG Deutsche to see substantial growth here.
, the German organisation which monitors and maintains In Western Europe, excluding Germany, the Latin America, which is supplied with standards in agriculture, food and drink.
UK and Ireland, volumes increased slightly product from our American and European on 2011, as customers continue to convert plants, is of increasing importance to Devro, from gut to collagen.
The reported revenues with a 30% revenue increase for edible 05 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review continued collagen casings during 2012.
Pricing in this Operations and manufacturing production operations at the same time market continues to improve, and many As reported earlier in the year, collagen raw quite a challenge in a food manufacturing opportunities remain to be developed.
We material costs increased during 2012, environment.
have recently appointed a new sales director adversely impacting earnings in the year.
for this region, bringing a fresh approach to These cost increases have been attributed to The second stage of creating capacity some markets where we had not been so a reduced supply of cattle hides in Europe through capital investment is to upgrade and active previously.
Several of the worlds and the Americas, and a higher demand for renew, or to completely replace, the least leading meat companies are based in Brazil, raw collagen from China, principally for efficient lines.
This involves a period of so it is important for Devro to have a strong gelatine manufacture.
Hide costs are transition, and often capacity is temporarily presence in this region.
expected to continue to increase in 2013. reduced in the early stages of a project as We are actively seeking ways to improve current lines are removed before the new Eastern Europe and Russia account for a the cost and quality of raw materials.
The manufacturing significant proportion of Devros sales, and processes are unique to Devro, so a large have underpinned much of the growth in 2012 is the second year of a three-year part of the design and specification is volumes in emerging markets in recent years.
programme to expand manufacturing completed by our own engineers.
Volumes and strong pricing were maintained capacity, as part of a larger long-term in 2012, although volume growth was a little programme of investment and renewal.
Investments contribute to cost control, as slower than previous years, reflecting a Actual output of saleable product in 2012 the newest lines run at speeds which are combination of the strong market position was 7% higher than the prior year.
With the often more than double those of the lines which Devro has now established and lower additional capacity in place by the year-end, that are being replaced, with improved levels of new investment in the regions food and further investments planned, we expect yields, more consistent quality and lower manufacturing sector.
We expect to see an additional 8% increase in output in 2013. maintenance requirements.
All these factors consolidation among customers in some add to the capacity as well as helping to markets and others are likely to experience Devros strategy is to grow earnings and control operating costs.
restructuring as retailers become more active improve return on capital employed ROCE in sourcing products from across Europe and by a combination of higher sales volumes As the volumes produced at existing sites not just from local suppliers.
Capital have increased, production overheads have investments help to achieve both objectives.
been absorbed over a greater volume which Demand in South East Asia continues to From 2007 2012, we have invested has contributed to manufacturing grow, with a broad mix of opportunities and 147 million of capital, and the ROCE has efficiencies.
Economies of scale are very customer requirements.
For 2013 important to a continuous manufacturing traditionally been a good market for casings, 2015, we anticipate further significant process with a high level of fixed costs and Devro has some very loyal customers capital investment to enable capacity required to support it.
here, but capacity constraints have limited expansion and efficiency gains.
achieve 20% ROCE across the whole Environmental and food safety business although ROCE may dip slightly Since 2007, 16 million has also been China as a market continues to expand at a during the investment phase before the full invested in areas that are not directly related rapid rate.
We have established a trading benefits come through.
A large proportion of to capacity or costs, but which help to company with warehousing in Beijing for Devros manufacturing assets are over 35 maintain Devros market and competitive direct sales to local customers.
Sales years old and so a major programme of position.
Principally this expenditure has volumes are small, but there have been some renewal and modernisation is underway to involved raw materials handling, food hygiene notable successes in achieving recognition increase efficiency and provide capacity to enhancements, waste water processing and for Devros differentiated products such as meet growing demand.
We expect to have energy efficiencies.
During 2012, we completed this programme of work by 2016, continued recruitment in China, giving us a after which additional capacity will come from Environmental issues, particularly waste very experienced local management team expansion of existing sites and construction water treatment, have required significant able to contribute to developing our business of new facilities.
This is partly expanding the there without exposing Devro to undue risk.
capacity to meet the demands of our The longer-term prospects for China Creating capacity and controlling costs increased volumes of raw material continue to be very interesting.
Since 2007, of the 147 million, we have preparation, and partly to meet ever-higher invested 131 million of capital to create standards for the purity of waste water as it Pricing capacity and control costs in two ways.
leaves our premises using techniques such as The third component of our strategy for Firstly, by upgrading, enhancing and reverse osmosis and aerobic digestion tanks.
revenue growth is to raise the value of our expanding our infrastructure.
Recent products and services, and reflect some of examples of this include a larger raw Reduction in energy consumption gives cost the benefits of this in prices.
During 2012, the materials chilled storage facility in savings to the business and enables the average price increased 2.8% per kilometre Moodiesburn in Scotland, and new steam factories to comply with local carbon sold at constant currencies.
Two thirds of the boiler equipment in Jilemnice in the Czech emission targets.
Recent investments include 2012 increases came as the result of Republic.
Infrastructure investments come a gas fired combined heat and power plant changes to product mix, with one third before we see the benefits of increased sales at our Bathurst site in Australia, and the coming as a result of price increases.
Pricing volumes, but are essential to enable the installation of more efficient cooling units at will be a priority in 2013. subsequent production capacity expansion.
The most effective investments Upgrading and expansion of infrastructure to reduce energy per unit manufactured tend involves a significant degree of working to be directly related to the installation of new around existing facilities, whilst maintaining and upgraded lines.
06 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Investment by region project in the plant whilst it is in full operation, owned food businesses in the market.
As Overall, Devro has made great progress as we work to satisfy the growing demand for they develop plans for the future, we will through capital re-investments at existing Select in Japan.
Whilst the investments have start to incorporate these into our current facilities, which have added 60% more added capacity, we have not yet achieved activities, allocating sufficient volumes of capacity since 2005.
A substantial the target line speeds or efficiencies, so product to enable them to grow brand opportunity for investment remains as we development work continues to gain the awareness and build relationships, prior continue the process of revitalising and anticipated benefits from these investments.
to any more substantial commitments to renewing our assets.
strengthen our local presence there.
Sandy Run, USA The plant at Sandy Run was built in the Jilemnice, Czech Republic During 2012, we appointed David Porter as In 2005, a new hall was constructed on the 1970s and acquired by Devro in 1996.
It has Group Strategy & Marketing Director on our Jilemnice site and new lines were installed in a very different technology to the European Executive Committee.
This new stages: this was completed in 2011.
This and Australian sites, based on a more appointment will help to manage business investment allowed for the closure of our challenging chemical process.
Whilst it opportunities worldwide by continuing to manufacturers some excellent products, the oldest factory, Korenov, with equivalent bring together the various strands of the output from a much lower cost-base in the plant overall has higher costs and lower levels business, and to capitalise on our unique new building, as well as additional capacity of efficiency and yield than the other plants.
Linked to this work, for the growth in sales of casings.
during 2013, we are establishing a single, In 2011, an adapted version of our newest global Research & Development team, with technology was installed as a single pilot line Since 2011, we have undertaken a the aim of bringing new products to market programme of upgrade, renewal and at Sandy Run.
During 2012, commissioning more quickly and of exploring further replacement of infrastructure and lines in the and product development work have led to opportunities for long-term growth.
This older hall at Jilemnice.
This is made more a provisional assessment of its potential.
In strengthens activity in the third main area challenging by the need to work around 2013, further work is planned to evaluate the of our strategy.
opportunity and potential returns of a current operations to maintain output during the transition, but it is proceeding to plan substantial investment 50-60 million, to Outlook and budget, with the full benefits becoming replace much of the existing factory with 2013 will be a busy year for Devro, as we more efficient and lower cost lines.
Should available from late 2013. increase sales volumes and develop the the investment go ahead it would be business.
There is strong demand for implemented over 3 to 5 years and would These developments, combined with recent Devros products and the investment in large investments in food hygiene and waste provide opportunities for capacity expansion additional capacity, improved casings and water treatment, mean that by the end of in subsequent years.
technical support will enable us to 2013, Jilemnice will have been significantly demonstrate to customers the enhanced modernised, capacity will have doubled and Safety value we offer.
Our top priority is that Devro should be a operating costs per unit reduced.
I believe that a safe In the early part of 2013, we are Glasgow, Scotland business is a good business, and that safety implementing further price increases to statistics are a good indication of morale Devro has two factories in Scotland.
recover the higher than expected rises in and motivation.
The outlook At Moodiesburn, a capital expenditure for raw materials in 2013 remains programme from 2009 - 2013 is adding 2012 showed further significant progress challenging.
capacity and improving efficiency by in safety performance, reflecting five years of strong commitment throughout the retro-fitting and upgrading existing lines, to During the first half of the year, investment give faster speeds and higher yields.
In 2012, we had 4 work-related projects in Scotland and Australia will injuries that led to lost working days, provide additional capacity for Select has been a programme of relatively small projects, managed in stages, each with a compared to 25 in 2008.
In September, renewal of our good return and short pay-back period.
such incidents has also reduced.
Working Jilemnice facility will be completed, providing days lost as a result of injuries totalled 156, significantly more volume for the European At Bellshill, opened in 1979, capital which is 819 fewer than 2008. market in 2014. expenditure in 2011 was used to remove several of the original lines, and replace I continue to take a close personal interest We are also stepping up our investment in them with a variant of the newest technology in our safety management, and have been people and infrastructure in anticipation of encouraged by the support given by so installed at Jilemnice.
This involved a the next stage of growth.
12 million spend on engineering, plant many colleagues.
Whilst recent progress is good, there is still much scope for further There still remains much to do, with plenty and equipment, which was well managed through 2011.
A large part of the project improvements as we work towards our of opportunities for profitable expansion and involved the transfer of operator knowledge shared goal of zero incidents.
development in the years ahead.
and development of products suitable for the Continental European market using local People At the start of 2013, we appointed Moir raw materials.
Although this phase took longer than anticipated, the lines have been Donelson as the new President for our running well since April 2012, and all the Americas business, bringing highly relevant experience and renewed ambition.
During output is being sold to customers in Peter Page Continental Europe.
The opportunity exists 2013, we will complete the evaluation of Chief Executive plans for re-investment in the USA, aimed to repeat this new lines for old investment at Bellshill over the coming years.
at cost reduction, quality improvement, and ultimately capacity expansion in future years.
Bathurst, Australia From 2011 to 2014, there is a programme We have been recruiting and developing a strong local management team for China, of retro-fitting and upgrading existing lines, combined with the need to carry out the with good experience of building western 07 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
