Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Price mix is the number of percentage Introduction Business points by which the organic movement Information presented in net sales exceeds the organic movement review Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks in volume.
The difference arises because business and operates on an international of changes in the composition of sales scale selling all types of beverage alcohol.
between higher and lower priced variants It is one of a small number of premium drinks or as price changes are implemented.
companies that operate across spirits, beer and wine.
Diageos brands have broad Presentation of information in relation to consumer appeal across geographies, and as the business a result, the business is organised under the In addition to describing the significant business areas of North America, Europe, factors that have impacted the income Africa, Latin America and Caribbean, Asia statement for the years ended 30 June 2012 Pacific and Global Supply.
In view of the focus and 30 June 2011, in each case as compared on reporting results by the location of third to the immediately preceding year, additional party customers in explaining the groups information is also presented on the operating performance in the business review, the performance and cash flows of the group.
results of the Global Supply segment have There are 10 principal financial key been allocated to the geographic segments.
performance indicators not specifically used The following discussion is based on Diageos in the consolidated financial statements results for the year ended 30 June 2012 themselves non-GAAP measures that are compared with the year ended 30 June 2011, used by the groups management to assess and the year ended 30 June 2011 compared the performance of the group in addition to with the year ended 30 June 2010. income statement performance measures.
In the discussion of the performance These are volume, organic movements in of the business, net sales, defined as sales volume, sales, net sales, marketing spend, after deducting excise duties, are presented operating profit and operating margin, return in addition to sales, as sales figures include on average total invested capital, economic significant excise duties which are set by profit and free cash flow.
These key external regulators and over which Diageo performance indicators are described below: has no control.
Diageo incurs excise duties throughout the world.
In some countries, Volume is a non-GAAP measure that has excise duties are based on sales and are been measured on an equivalent units basis separately identified on the face of the to nine-litre cases of spirits.
An equivalent unit invoice to the external customer.
In others, represents one nine-litre case of spirits, it is effectively a production tax, which is which is approximately 272 servings.
A serving incurred when the spirit is removed from comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or bonded warehouses.
In these countries, 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
Therefore, to excise duties are part of the cost of goods convert volume of products, other than spirits, sold and are not separately identified on the to equivalent units, the following guide has sales invoice.
Changes in the level of excise been used: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, duties can significantly affect the level of wine in nine-litre cases divide by five, ready reported sales and cost of sales without to drink in nine-litre cases divide by 10 and directly reflecting changes in volume, mix certain pre-mixed products that are classified or profitability, which are the variables that as ready to drink in nine-litre cases divide have an impact on the element of sales by five.
References to emerging markets Organic movements in volume, sales, net comprise Russia and Eastern Europe, Turkey, sales, marketing spend, operating profit and Africa, Latin America and Caribbean and Asia operating margin are non-GAAP measures.
Pacific excluding Australia, Korea and Japan.
The performance of the group is discussed References to reserve brands include using these measures.
Johnnie Walker Green Label, Johnnie Walker In the discussion of the performance of Gold Label 18 year old, Johnnie Walker Gold the business, organic information is presented Label Reserve, Johnnie Walker Blue Label, using pounds sterling amounts on a constant Johnnie Walker Blue Label King George V, currency basis.
This retranslates prior year Johnnie Walker Platinum Label 18 year old, reported numbers at current year exchange The John Walker, Classic Malts, Buchanans rates and enables an understanding of the Special Reserve, Buchanans Red Seal, Dimple underlying performance of the market that 18 year old, Bulleit Bourbon, Tanqueray No.
is most closely influenced by the actions of TEN, Croc, Ketel One vodka, Don Julio, that markets management.
The risk from Zacapa, Godiva and Nuvo.
exchange rate movements is managed References to ready to drink also include centrally and is not a factor over which local ready to serve products, such as pre mix cans managers have any control.
Residual exchange in some markets, and progressive adult impacts are reported within Corporate.
beverages in the United States and certain markets supplied by the United States.
