Business review Focused on delivering client service excellence Underlying operating profits were 54.2 Introduction The Groups operations are managed million 2011: 50.8 million, an increase The quality of across three main areas: funeral services, of seven per cent.
We consider this to be crematoria and pre-arranged funeral plans, a good performance.
our service is borne which respectively represented 65 per cent, out in the responses 28 per cent and seven per cent of the This performance has been achieved through Groups operating profits in 2012. successful execution of our strategy.
Average we receive to the income per funeral has increased, whilst surveys we send out margins are slightly lower as a consequence Office for National Statistics data to each family we Some of the Groups key performance of the effect of new openings in the period indicators rely on the total number of being at lower margins as well as some one care for.
estimated deaths for each period.
This off costs absorbed in the second half Andrew Davies of the year.
information is obtained from the Office Operations Director for National Statistics ONS.
Progress and Developments The initial publication of recorded total Investment in the core portfolio We continue to invest in our premises and estimated deaths in Britain for the 52 weeks Key points in 2012 was 551,000 compared to 539,000 our fleet, with a total of 9.7 million of for 2011.
Historically, the ONS has updated capital expenditure incurred in 2012. these estimates from time to time.
As in Approximately 60 per cent of this was 36 locations used to maintain our fleet of hearses and previous years, the Group does not restate The Groups funeral any of its key performance indicators when limousines.
The remainder was used to location portfolio increased these figures are restated in the following year.
improve our premises, including ensuring by 36 reflecting increases our mortuary areas are maintained to a high standard.
We believe this investment in client from acquisitions and new Although annual deaths declined significantly between the early 1990s and 2012, from facing areas and behind the scenes is critical satellite funeral locations.
640,000 to 551,000, the last five years in ensuring the greatest care possible can have seen a more stable number of deaths be given to a familys loved one.
9.7million fluctuating between 553,000 and 539,000 per annum.
Funeral location portfolio 9.7 million has been The Groups funeral location portfolio invested in improving and increased by 36 locations in the year, maintaining our vehicles reflecting acquisitions, disposals and the Funeral services and premises.
continuation of the new satellite programme, Overview which started in 2010.
Funeral services relate to the provision 99.3% Net acquisition investment of 10.6 million of funerals and ancillary items, such as 99.3 per cent of memorials and floral tributes.
increased the portfolio by 18 funeral respondents to our client locations in the United Kingdom.
Each of survey in 2012 said that these acquisitions will fit well within the Performance we met or exceeded Groups existing network.
As at 28 December 2012, the Group operated their expectations.
a network of 636 2011: 600 funeral locations throughout the United Kingdom, 19 new satellite funeral locations 2011: 25 were opened in the year.
The principle of generally trading under local established names.
During the period, the Group these locations is that they must be situated conducted 63,200 funerals 2011: 62,300. close enough to existing business centres to use their specialist vehicles and mortuary equipment, but far enough away that they Approximately two per cent of these funerals were conducted in Northern Ireland.
In this way, these funeral Excluding Northern Ireland, these funerals locations will provide the same outstanding represent approximately 11.2 per cent level of client service that people experience from other Dignity funeral locations without 2011: 11.3 per cent of total estimated deaths in Britain.
Whilst funerals divided the need for significant capital investment.
by estimated deaths is a reasonable measure of our market share, the Group does not have a complete national presence and consequently, this calculation can only ever be an estimate.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 10 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information We are the leading provider of funeral related services in the UK and we strive to set the highest standards in service and care.
Our actions during the year We are investing in our people, locations and eet to enhance customer experience and service Each year Dignity invests in staff training initiatives, the refurbishment of funeral properties and the renewal of our fleet, enabling our staff to provide the highest standards of client service excellence.
Above: Hazel Short, Business Manager at David Stockwell & Co, Monmouth.
Below: Steve Korsman, Funeral Service Operative, D Caesar Jones, Cardiff.
We are increasing our network of local funeral locations to help more families Dignity has continued to open new satellite locations that are close enough to existing business centres to use their specialist vehicles and mortuary facilities but far enough away to serve new families.
Above: Louise Bainton, Funeral Service Arranger, W Kaye & Son, Leeds, which opened a satellite location during 2012.
Below: Client advice literature at L Fulcher Funeral Services, Thetford.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11 | Business review continued Leveraging our scale, expertise and experience Progress and Developments Satellite locations are anticipated to be loss making in their first full year of operation The Group is now compliant with legislative We are committed and be profitable in their third year of requirements on mercury abatement, operation.
The total portfolio opened under with 20 of the Groups portfolio fitted with to providing the abatement equipment.
The project has this initiative broadly broke even in 2012. local communities required an investment of 7.4 million by One location was closed in the period, being the Group.
This includes some expenditure we serve with the a leasehold location.
expected to be incurred in early 2013 to highest standard of finish the civil and cosmetic works at service and facilities.
The Groups investment in satellite funeral Steve Gant General Manager, Crematoria locations has now reached a stage where 2.1 million 2011: 1.7 million has also been spent on new cremators and other focus will be turned to understanding and improving the profitability of the 62 locations general improvements to the crematoria already opened.
Whilst a few will be opened locations.
This investment helps our in 2013 where locations have already been locations provide the best possible service found, activity to find further locations in comfortable surroundings to the funeral Key points has ceased for the time being.
The Group directors and families that use them.
expects to take approximately two to three years on this next stage of the project.
During the year, the Group opened its newly 37crematoria constructed crematorium in Essex.
Whilst it Dignity is the largest The acquisition of 40 funeral locations as will take approximately five to seven years to single operator of part of Yew in January 2013 represents an reach maturity, it represents another positive crematoria in Britain, excellent opportunity to improve the Groups step in the divisions growth.
presence in the North of England and create operating 37 crematoria.
Four other funeral In addition, the Group now operates locations have also been acquired or opened Haringey Councils crematorium and 6.1million since the year end.
Consideration of 0.1 million was paid and a further 1.1 million has been The portfolio changes invested there to date.
These facilities have in the year represents an Crematoria been leased to the Group for 50 years.
Overview The changes to the portfolio in the year Crematoria services relate to cremation represented an investment of 6.1 million 2012 services and the sale of memorials and with 3.6 million of this incurred in 2011.
Dignity has successfully burial plots at the Groups crematoria In addition 1.9 million was invested in the met its obligations to and cemeteries.
year on other crematoria developments that comply with mercury were started in previous years.
A further abatement legislation Performance capital investment of approximately 1.2 by the end of 2012. million is expected in 2013 to complete the The Group is the largest single operator of crematoria in Britain, operating 37 2011: investment in Haringeys crematorium.
The Group performed 50,500 cremations Opportunities The Group continues to identify further 2011: 47,600 in the period, representing 9.2 per cent 2011: 8.8 per cent of deaths locations suitable for new crematoria and in Britain.
is also continuing to seek partnerships with local authorities.
Operating profits were 23.3 million 2011: 21.3 million, an increase of 9 per cent.
The Groups crematoria portfolio increased This reflects a strong performance from the to 39 in January 2013 following the established crematoria and an improving acquisition of Yew.
contribution from recently opened locations.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 12 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information We are the largest single operator of crematoria in Britain with a growing portfolio of well-established and modern state-of-the art crematoria meeting the needs of the local communities we serve.
Our actions during the year We are continuing to develop, manage and acquire new crematoria We leverage our experience and expertise to identify further acquisition opportunities and locations suitable for new build crematoria.
We also continue to seek new partnerships with local authorities and to invest in new developments at existing crematoria.
Above: Wyre Forest Crematorium & Cemetery, Worcestershire.
Below: Lancaster & Morecambe Crematorium has been awarded two horticultural awards in 2012 for the development and maintenance of its grounds.
Left: Dignity has We are identifying the development successfully completed sites of tomorrow the installation of specialist The development of a new crematorium in Essex was equipment to reduce completed during the period and became operational in mercury emissions from October 2012. crematoria by 50 per cent by the end of 2012.
Top right: Bentley Crematorium & Cemetery, Essex.
Above: Steve Gant, General Manager, Crematoria: Alan Lathbury, Head of Business Development and Paul Smith of Cre8 Building Solutions at Bentley Crematorium.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13 | Business review continued Developing partnerships and opportunities for growth The Groups customer service centre, based Pre-arranged funeral plans in its head office in Sutton Coldfield, gained We have achieved first prize in the annual Top 50 Call Centres Overview for Customer Service awards.
Furthermore, strong sales in the Pre-arranged funeral plans represent the sale this represents the fourth consecutive year of funerals in advance to customers wishing period and we where a top five place has been achieved: a to make their own funeral arrangements unique feat in the history of the competition continue to reach and the marketing and administration costs and testament to the high quality service associated with making such sales.
The new customers provided to our customers.
Group continues to have a strong market through our growing presence in this area.
These plans represent Opportunities portfolio of afnity future incremental business for the funeral Opportunities for growth continue through division, as the Group expects to perform the partners.
the development of existing relationships majority of these funerals.
and the creation of new ones.
Steve Wallis General Manager, Pre-arrangement Performance As part of the acquisition of Yew, the Group Operating performance in the year has been has taken over the administration of Yews strong, with operating profits of 6.5 million Key points outstanding pre-arranged funeral plans in the period 2011: 5.5 million.
In recent totalling approximately 9,000, of which years, the Group has received monies from approximately two thirds are anticipated, 290 000 the trusts, in line with the relevant trusts to be ultimately performed by Dignity.
The deed, which have been assessed by the There were 290,000 Group intends to sell its own pre-arranged trustees as not required to ensure the trust unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans through the new Yew branches has sufficient assets to meet its future funeral plans at the end going forward.
liabilities in respect of current members of the period.
Both years operating profits Central overheads strong sales through the include Recoveries of 1.5 million.
Groups affinity partners Overview and funeral locations.
As expected and highlighted in the Central overheads relate to central services Groups Interim Management Statement in that are not specifically attributed to a November 2012, the Group will not receive, 40 000 particular operating division.
These include any Recoveries from its pre-arranged funeral the provision of IT, finance, personnel and Focused marketing plan trusts in 2013.
However, the latest Directors emoluments.
In addition and activity has resulted in actuarial valuations of the pre-arranged consistent with previous periods, the Group approximately 40,000 funeral plan trusts at 28 September 2012 records the costs of incentive bonus new funeral plan sales.
showed them to have a surplus of 14.0 arrangements, such as Long Term Incentive million and sufficient assets to pay out all Plans LTIPs and annual performance funerals at the current projected rates st bonuses, which are provided to over 100 1 place anticipated by the actuary.
managers working across the business.
Dignitys Client Service As with all the Groups operating profits, Centre was awarded first Developments pre-arranged funeral plan profits convert place in the annual Top 50 Costs in the period were 14.6 million efficiently into a similar amount of cash.
Call Centres for Customer 2011: 13.1 million, an increase of 11 Service awards.
The majority of the year on year Progress and Developments increase above inflation reflects higher Focused marketing activity with its partners bonuses paid to operational managers has resulted in approximately 40,000 new of the business.
plan sales and the number of unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans increasing to 290,000 2011: 265,000 as at 28 December 2012.
The Group has continued to work hard at developing its portfolio of affinity partners and has formed a number of new partnerships in the period with organisations in the retail and financial services arena.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 14 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information We are one the UKs leading providers of pre-arranged funeral plans and we continue to strengthen our position in this growing market.
Our actions during the year We are growing our portfolio of afnity partners to reach new customers We continue to reach new customers through both our growing portfolio of reputable affinity partners and our established funeral locations.
Above: Lindsay Duncan, Affinity Partner Relationship Manager.
Below: Dignitys literature allows clients to consider the options and benefits of a Funeral Plan at their convenience.
We continue to focus on developing nancially secure products and services As one of the UKs leading providers of pre-arranged funeral plans, we offer one of the most financially secure plans available today.
Above: Raul Picart, Senior Campaign Manager, Pre-arrangement Marketing.
Below: Jordan OGara, Client Service Advisor, Client Service Centre, Sutton Coldfield.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 15 |
