2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Award-winning products and services Business review 2012-2013 Our business has two reporting segments: June 2012 Safety at Sea award for Voice Distress service Inmarsat Global sells wholesale L-band satellite communications Voice Distress over FleetBroadband won the Safety at Sea airtime to distribution partners, who then on-sell services to service magazines Systems Award for helping mariners in difficulties.
The Inmarsat Voice Distress Non-SOLAS service uses Inmarsat Solutions our direct and indirect distribution business, FleetBroadband to provide priority call access interrupting all which offers a wide portfolio of remote telecommunications non-distress calls as soon as the red distress button is pushed solutions to service providers and end-users, including our to connect a caller to an operator at a Maritime Rescue L-band services.
We review the operational performance of our core business areas, October 2012 as well as progress on the Global Xpress programme, on the ITU Humanitarian award for Lifesaving following pages.
The Company was presented with the first International Telecommunication Union ITU Humanitarian Award for Lifesaving.
Inmarsat was praised during the award ceremony held at ITU Telecom World 2012 in Dubai for its commitment and consistent leadership in supporting the use of telecommunications to save lives during emergencies.
February 2013 Best Telecommunications pLC in the UK Stock market awards The UK Stock Market Awards recognise publicly quoted companies that are truly creating shareholder value.
They are judged by a 10-strong panel of City of London investment firms and personal advisors who look for excellence in financial performance, strategic and operational development, and robust shareholder return.
March 2013 Innovation award for improving space safety Inmarsats role in making operations in space safer and more reliable was recognised with an industry innovator award from the Society of Satellite Professionals International.
The society presented the Space Data Association SDA with its Innovation in Industry Collaboration on the Safe Use of Space award.
SDA was founded by Inmarsat, Intelsat and SES in 2009 to address the increased crowding of the Earths orbit and the lack of industry-wide data on satellite positioning.
Inmarsat plc 11 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Chief Executives business review continued In 2012 we implemented a new organisational structure With the launch of the first GX satellite expected before the which brought our operations closer to our key vertical market end of this year, we know that 2013 is a critical year to ensure we segments, and strengthened our ability to support our direct and remain focused on completing the technological and commercial indirect distribution channel.
At the same time, we brought our milestones necessary to achieve a successful GX introduction.
three subsidiaries, Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip together with our Inmarsat Global business to operate as one under the Work in progress on one of the Inmarsat I-5 satellites, being Inmarsat brand.
We have worked through significant change built by Boeing, which will form part of our Global Xpress management during 2012 to emerge at the end of the year a network offering seamless worldwide coverage and stronger, better aligned business, with shared values of how we broadband connectivity at speeds of up to 50Mbps.
expect our employees to work together.
Photograph provided courtesy of Boeing Significant focus during 2012 has been on the implementation of our Global Xpress GX programme, which is a US$1.2 billion investment project.
GX will offer seamless global coverage and deliver services with broadband speeds of up to 50Mbps for users in the government, maritime, energy, enterprise and aviation sectors.
GX services will be supported by a constellation of three Ka-band satellites, with the first scheduled for launch in 2013.
Full constellation deployment is expected by the end of 2014.
The management team has changed over the year as we have refined how we want the organisation to operate and we now have the heads of the four business units as members of the senior management team.
We are very pleased with the strong contributions they have made in a short time.
Having a strong management team in place in a period of significant organisational change is critical, especially as we need to ensure we meet the GX programme milestones.
The GX programme commenced in 2010 and remains on budget, with key milestones having been met over this time.
Significant ones include a contract with International Launch Services for the launch of three Ka-band satellites using their Proton launch vehicle and the placement of launch and in-orbit insurance for these satellites.
We also reached an agreement with Cisco to create a satellite applications service enablement platform which will allow us and our partners to rapidly develop and remotely deploy innovative applications to extend the reach of new services across the new GX and the existing L-band BGAN networks, as well as powerfully integrate our L-band and Ka-band services together via a single network device.
Another major component of the GX programme is the ground network and we have made an excellent start in establishing new satellite access stations and the network required to distribute our satellite traffic.
We have also made very good progress on licence applications across the world to allow the use of the new GX services.
During 2012, we signed a number of distribution and technology Our business has two reporting segments Inmarsat Global agreements which will ensure a fast start for the launch of which sells wholesale L-band satellite communications services to Global Xpress and underpin the commercial success of the distribution partners who then on-sell services to service providers GX programme, together with a number of agreements with and end-users : and Inmarsat Solutions, which is our direct and parties who will develop either end-user equipment or other indirect distribution business, offering a broad portfolio of remote connectivity solutions for the GX network.
As a result of the telecommunications solutions to service providers and end-users, capacity pre-commitments we have signed, and our growing including our L-band services.
installed base of VSAT users, we now estimate that 20% of our cumulative plan revenues for GX through the first five years of The review of operations for Inmarsat Global and Inmarsat operations are now either contractually committed or on our Solutions follows.
It is very pleasing that a number of partners have already demonstrated their support for the service.
12 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Global Xpress Inmarsat Global Upgrade path Our existing satellite fleet, comprising 10 satellites, operate at geosynchronous orbit approximately 36,000km 22,240 miles We see already that there is interest from maritime users in above the Earth.
Positioned at key orbital locations, our fleet our Global Xpress offering and we expect that some ship offers global coverage for our services.
The addition of the owners will move straight to GX from Fleet or FleetBroadband.
Alphasat satellite, which is nearing completion and expected to be launched in 2013, will complement our Inmarsat-4 satellites, and provide network resilience and additional space segment Economic conditions remained bleak in the maritime market in capacity over Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
2012 a year in which the Clarksea Index dipped below US$10,000 a day.
Inmarsat is competing in a market where alternative As well as managing our own fleet of satellites, we also providers of maritime communications services create increasingly provide launch services for other satellite operators and more complicated and challenging offerings.
So the level of manage the station-keeping of two third-party satellites.
subscriber and revenue growth achieved in maritime in 2012 is During 2012, we decommissioned an Inmarsat-2 satellite a reflection that ship owners and fleet managers see the benefits which had provided us with a reliable service for almost 21 and value of our services.
years, much longer than its 13-year design life.
This was only the second decommissioning in our history.
We must continue to innovate and provide new levels of value to the shipping community and during 2012 we strove to offer a simplified pricing model that rewards end-users for commitment to longer contract periods with greater volumes of data at lower unit prices.
Maritime Maritime Through 2012, we sold on average one FB150 installation for every MSS Revenue 2012 Maritime Revenue 2012 four FB 250 500 installations.
We believe that FB150 is extending 1.
Voice 19% our market relevance in the small boat market, including the fishing 2.
Indeed, we have seen strong growth in subscription to our Small Boat Plan, a pricing package that is specifically tailored to the needs of smaller boats, often with 1.
Market penetration FleetBroadband has enabled us to extend the relevance of our maritime services into the fishing and leisure markets with smaller, 2. cheaper variants such as FB150 and the maritime VSAT market with special pricing plans such as FleetBroadband Unlimited.
In 2012, wholesale revenues from the Inmarsat Maritime business Continuous improvements to our core network infrastructure have unit were US$411.2m, with data services accounting for over 80% resulted in an increased ability to manage our L-band resources of sector revenues.
We have seen a continued steady migration more efficiently.
These improvements have allowed us to launch away from our legacy maritime services, with customers moving to the FB Unlimited Plan.
This new package combines our global FleetBroadband FB, which offers our lowest ever per megabyte coverage and unsurpassed network up-time with an All You Can pricing at faster speeds and with greater access to a variety of Eat data allowance at a very competitive fixed monthly rate.
Value-Added Services VAS than any previous Inmarsat service.
The high number of activations of this package in the two months that followed its launch in November 2012 is a testament to the FB continues to be our most successful service launch to date, popularity of this service.
As an alternative to the high-end FB with an average of 665 new subscribers added every month in packages for end-users who require a VSAT service, our combined 2012.
As the end of life of our Inmarsat B and Inmarsat M services Ku-band and FB XpressLink solution has also been successful.
approaches at the end of 2014, we have seen an increase in the XpressLink was launched in 2011 and has been received well by migration to FB, which is an important contributing factor to the end-users.
However, we are also seeing users of our legacy Fleet services begin to increase the rate of migration as the We see already that there is interest from maritime users in our requirement for more data-heavy applications becomes prevalent, GX offering and we expect that some ship owners will move as well as to take advantage of newly introduced FB pricing plans, straight to GX from Fleet or FB immediately, whereas others especially around the mid to high-end allowance packages will move naturally to our XpressLink service which, as the name available.
Finally, the agility of FB has enabled us to extend the suggests, enables a defined and committed pathway to GX, via relevance of our maritime services into the fishing and leisure an upgradable SEVSAT FB integrated service and then transition markets with smaller, cheaper variants such as FB150, and the to GX over a period of time.
maritime VSAT market with special pricing plans such as FB Unlimited.
We think this augurs well for future growth of our services revenue from the maritime sector.
Inmarsat plc 13 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Chief Executives business review continued Beyond the commercial maritime market, a large number of governments leverage the benefits of global coverage and Land Mobile Land Mobile immediate availability that our services provide.
In 2012 we continued to successfully provide managed network and mobile MSS Revenue 2012 Land Revenue 2012 satellite services to our US Navy and US Coast Guard customers.
Voice 11% We also launched the FB Assured Access service specifically to 2.
Data 89% meet the wider needs of the important government sector, providing all of the benefits of Inmarsats leased service, but with the additional benefit of simple global roaming.
Access client is operational and more are expected to commit 2. in 2013.
Our relationships with our distribution partners remain our strongest resource for growth and our indirect business, through our channel partners, continued to be our largest source of revenue by far.
The announcement of our first Global Xpress Value-Added Resellers VAR is evidence of our commitment to continue operating via a primarily indirect business model, focused on supporting our customers in partnership with our highly skilled channel partners indeed, names such as Imtech, Telemar, Navarino, NSSL, GMPCS and SingTel our current GX launch VARs are synonymous with the provision of high-quality maritime Revenues for our land mobile sector were US$132.4m for 2012. services.
These VARs, in conjunction with a strategic partnership Earnings from voice services advanced by 86% over the previous with Cisco for the development of a service enablement platform year to US$14.3m, with our handheld satellite phone service, for applications, and committed terminal development from IsatPhone Pro, being the principal driver.
However, while we also hardware manufacturers such as Cobham, JRC and Intellian, saw continued underlying growth in data services, we were again indicates a level of confidence in the potential of Global Xpress affected by the planned and on-going withdrawal of government not only within Inmarsat but also within the wider maritime customers from Afghanistan, resulting in much of the 18% decline communications industry.
We estimate that Afghanistan and events in North Africa and Japan in 2011 contributed US$30m more revenue when compared with 2012.
BGaN Diverse By focusing on a wider and more diverse utilisation of BGAN for enterprise solutions, the installed base of BGAN subscribers continued to grow, with the number of net new BGAN users increasing by 15% in 2012.
Elsewhere, however, BGAN continues to be a core capability of most defence and civil government customers around the world, and is used extensively as the first means of communications, logistics and welfare communications in the initial period of any activity.
We have also released a wider range of added-value solutions in this sector for both fixed and  COTM customers, including real-time video conferencing and situational awareness applications.
FleetBroadband is a major success story for Inmarsat, with more ship owners migrating from older services as the demand for data-heavy applications increases.
We are also seeing early interest from maritime users in our forthcoming Global Xpress network.
We are proud to remain the only provider of satellite communications services for the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System GMDSS and we are taking all steps we can for FB to be a fully compliant service to meet IMO standards for GMDSS by the end of 2014.
In the meantime, we continue to support Voice Distress services and 505 emergency calling through FB and are pleased that all our safety services are recognised by mariners and rescue co-ordination centres as vital in helping save lives at sea.
14 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Our handheld satellite phone IsatPhone Pro was the main driver behind our substantial growth in earnings from voice services during the year with the number of terminals activated hitting 84,000 and confirmed orders from distributors passing 100,000.
To enhance the performance of our BGAN service to US Revenue from world events is always unpredictable and compared government users and in response to the ever-growing demand with 2011, which experienced natural disasters in Asia and for higher data rates, a new service, BGAN Converge, has been geo-political conflicts in the Middle East, there were fewer such introduced.
This innovative service dramatically enhances events in 2012.
This had a dampening effect on usage in three throughput up to 800kbps bi-directionally, while maintaining of our main customer groups for Inmarsat land mobile data BGANs core characteristics of reliability, security, scalability, and services broadcast media, aid agencies and governments.
It seems, however, that such events do not go away, they ebb and flow, as we have seen recently in Saharan-Africa.
m2m In addition, by focusing on a wider and more diverse utilisation of BGAN for enterprise solutions, the installed base of BGAN Capacity subscribers continued to grow, with the number of net new BGAN users increasing by 15% in 2012.
This move towards With the advent of Global Xpress, we believe capacity on our greater diversification is partly driven by greater knowledge and L-band network can be re-directed to markets such as M2M understanding of our customers, showing the benefit from the to capture new growth, and we are laying the foundations for organisational change early in 2012, where through the formation this today.
of market-vertical business units we were able to deploy our BGAN technology in a number of emerging energy sectors, including utilities, mining and land drilling, to support applications such as smart metering and push to talk.
Inmarsat plc 15 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Chief Executives business review continued We realised a successful first market-entry in the Sub-Saharan Africa, Middle East and Asia regions with our BGAN Link Aviation Aviation propositions, which are fixed-fee, large allowance BGAN packages designed to serve customers such as mining, construction and MSS Revenue 2012 Aviation Revenue 2012 engineering companies, using data-heavy applications for 1.
Voice 3% sustained periods of operation in semi-permanent environments.
Data 97% Historically these markets have been dominated by VSAT solutions.
We remain optimistic that the portability, reliability and resilience of our BGAN service, when packaged in VSAT-like economics, will 1.
2. prove to be a strong competitor in these markets.
Also in 2012, we successfully positioned BGAN M2M in the higher throughput segment of the machine to machine M2M market next to our established IsatM2M and new IsatData Pro services.
We launched IsatData Pro in 2011 in conjunction with our partner, Skywave in which we have a 19% shareholding to serve the M2M market.
IsatData Pro provides a store and forward short-burst data exchange at speeds of 6,400 and 10,000 bytes in the send and receive directions, which enables the tracking and monitoring of fixed or mobile assets globally.
By comparison, the BGAN M2M service offers an end-to-end IP data capability for real-time applications, such as smart metering, SCADA, monitoring and In 2012 our aviation business saw some growth, with revenue other infrastructure telemetry solutions, at speeds of up to 464kbps slightly up by 1.3% at US$100.8m.
SwiftBroadband SB is now Inmarsats fastest growing aviation We believe the M2M market represents a significant future service.
The strong adoption of our voice and broadband data opportunity for our L-band service capability.
M2M is a fastservice in the air transport and business aviation markets continued growing MSS market where we have limited presence today, but during the year and SB is now used on board more than 15,000 one that can be uniquely served by our L-band satellite services.
aircraft, ranging from the small turbo-prop King Air to the Airbus As a result, we are developing our product and service capabilities A380.
The growth in SB terminal numbers in the air transport and distribution channel relationships, investing in the resources market has been driven by airlines continuing to roll out necessary to take market share.
With the advent of Global Xpress, connectivity programmes in passenger cabins.
SB is now a factory we believe capacity on our L-band network can be re-directed to installable option on both Boeing and Airbus aircraft, reflecting the markets such as M2M to capture new growth, and we are laying support for this service from airframe manufacturers.
the foundations for this today.
SwiftBroadband The total number of IsatPhone Pro activated terminals at year-end was over 84,000, representing an increase of 95% compared with Fastest growing 2011: this figure included 41,000 terminals activated during 2012.
The strong adoption of our voice and broadband data service in This growth has been realised through wider adoption of the the aviation markets continued during the year and SB is now Inmarsat handheld service across the enterprise and government used on board more than 15,000 aircraft, ranging from the small sectors, in particular in Latin America, South-East Asia, China and turbo-prop King Air to the Airbus A380.
Japan, as well as in the United States where an agreement with Freedom Wireless Inc in September 2012 now means that Inmarsat is the only mobile satellite provider in the world to be licensed to With the number of connected aircraft continuing to grow, offer prepay voice services in the US.
Indeed, this agreement SwiftBroadband usage has risen accordingly, driven by the increase ensured that prepay voice became available in the US for all in passenger acceptance of in-flight connectivity.
At the end of the existing Inmarsat land and maritime services, including IsatPhone year there were more than 20 airlines across the world contracted Pro, BGAN, FleetBroadband and FleetPhone.
by our partners to use SB, and 16 more already using the service to offer their passengers in-flight mobile phone and Wi-Fi In Japan, the trend among government customers to adopt connectivity for email, text messages, updating social networks, IsatPhone Pro for crisis communications was demonstrated by a international phone calls and internet access.
significant order of handsets by government departments and local authorities throughout the country following the devastating Today SwiftBroadband is also a factory option on most high-end tsunami in 2011. aircraft in the business aviation market and this segment has continued to show a strong demand for in-flight connectivity throughout the current worldwide economic recession.
The characteristics of SB, providing a highly reliable and ubiquitous global high data rate IP-based service, make it a particularly good fit for this important market.
16 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Global Xpress Leasing Leasing Exclusive MSS Revenue 2012 With our upcoming Global Xpress aviation service, Inmarsat will 1.
Other 88% be the only company able to provide a consistent global high-speed data service.
Swift 64, the forerunner to SB, is continuing to contribute significant 2. revenues to our aviation business, although we see some customers starting to migrate to the broadband service and so legacy Swift 64 usage is expected progressively to reduce over time.
We have also seen reduced government usage particularly over Afghanistan.
We remain committed to the provision of ICAO-approved safety services, and we are upgrading the ground infrastructure that supports our Aero Classic Safety Services, as well as introducing SwiftBroadband Safety Services and supporting cockpit priority IP connectivity.
In 2012, revenues from leasing were US$93.6m, a decline of We also remain focused on increasing our addressable aviation US$16.6m compared with the previous year.
This was partly due markets by developing new products and services for smaller to a reduction in the number of government maritime customers aircraft and helicopters, and by increasing the capacity of switching to the newly launched FB Assured Access service, which our services.
provides all of the benefits of Inmarsats leased service, but with the additional benefit of simple global roaming.
Also, a number With our upcoming Global Xpress aviation service, Inmarsat of Inmarsat B leases have not been renewed as a result of our will be the only company able to provide a consistent global Cooperation Agreement with LightSquared, a decision we took in high-speed data service.
During 2012 we signed an exclusive preparation for the future opportunities for an ATC service to be agreement with Honeywell to develop, produce and distribute provided in North America.
the on-board hardware that will enable users to connect to the Global Xpress network, a deal that was estimated by Honeywell to represent US$2.8bn for Honeywell in future sales of hardware, customer service, and maintenance to airlines, government entities and original equipment manufacturers OEMs over the next two decades.
Honeywells endorsement of our GX aviation service is reflected in its commitment to purchase GX capacity for five years and reserve capacity up to 2021.
Growing passenger acceptance of in-flight connectivity helped drive the usage of SwiftBroadband our fastest growing aviation service to date while Swift64 continues to generate substantial revenues ahead of the scheduled launch of Global Xpress in 2014.
Inmarsat plc 17 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Chief Executives business review continued MISC Berhad MISC signed up to XpressLink for 46 of its vessels, comprised of chemical and LNG tankers.
We have more than 330 Inmarsat Solutions XpressLink systems active at the end of 2012 and an order book of over 250 XpressLink or VSAT systems still to be installed.
Our Inmarsat Solutions business, which comprises direct and indirect distribution businesses, offers a broad portfolio of remote In addition to XpressLink, VSAT services acquired through our telecommunications solutions to service providers and end-user merger of Stratos and Ship Equip into the Inmarsat Maritime customers, offering services over the mobile and fixed satellite business unit means we now have a customer base of more than systems of a number of the leading global and regional satellite 1,100 VSAT installed vessels.
These vessels will be among the first system operators, predominantly the Inmarsat satellite system, to be upgraded to our Global Xpress Ka-band service when it is and through owned and operated microwave and satellite fully operational.
These vessels, plus any installed between now telecommunications facilities.
and our Global Xpress service launch, will create an upgradable base of customers primed for the next level of communications to On 3 January 2012, we implemented a new organisational the shipping industry.
structure for our Inmarsat Solutions business that aligns its operations more closely with our core vertical market segments US government and strengthens our support to both direct and indirect distribution of services.
This is intended over time to ensure that our owned Contract win distribution activities are aligned as much as possible with the distribution activities of our independent channel partners, We won a prime contract under the Custom Satcom Solutions maximising the effectiveness and efficiency of our global CS2 contract, a US government programme, to acquire up to distribution activities.
US$2.6bn in satellite telecom solutions and end-to-end managed network services over the next five years.
With the reorganisation, Inmarsat Solutions became responsible for our global direct and indirect sales, marketing and delivery, and operates through four market-facing business units: Leveraging the strengths of former Stratos and Inmarsat in the non-maritime and non-government sectors was assigned to the n Inmarsat Maritime, focusing on worldwide commercial Enterprise business unit, which targeted accelerated growth maritime opportunities through new solution enablement with partners in various key n target sectors, such as media, energy and M2M.
Inmarsat Government, focusing on US government opportunities, both military and civil on land, at sea and in the air n In the media sector, we have successfully worked on widening the Inmarsat Global Government, focusing on worldwide geographical take-up of our BGAN streaming services and saw the i. e. non-US civil and military government opportunities Asian broadcasters outpace their US and European peers with new on land, at sea and in the air, and technology utilisation of our high-end streaming services, including n Inmarsat Enterprise, focusing on worldwide energy, industry, vehicular and maritime broadcasting in HD.
European and carriers, commercial aviation and M2M opportunities.
US-based broadcasters positively received the newly introduced mixed services bundles of BGAN and IsatPhone Pro.
Our BGAN The Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip operations are now providing terminals were also used for the voting system infrastructure for their services within the relevant business units, and are using the national elections in Brazil.
In the transportation sector, we saw the first deployments of In 2012 the business of Ship Equip and elements of the former IsatData Pro, a product designed and produced in collaboration Stratos business came together to operate within the newly with our partner SkyWave.
This is a higher ARPU product than our formed Inmarsat Maritime business unit.
FB services saw an traditional IsatM2M service, which fills the gap in the higher-end increase in revenue of 75% year-on-year, confirming the continued store-and-forward M2M market just below the upper end of the success of the service since its introduction.
The new 200MB Entry market covered by BGAN M2M.
Plan for FB saw a large migration from the Standard Plan within the first month of launch, and the number of subscribers continued to In the mining sector, we achieved a promising breakthrough with increase throughout the year.
The Unlimited Plan has been another projects where the combination of push-to-talk functionality and instant success, seeing one major customer move across a comms-on-the-move vehicular BGANs is being used, mainly in 50-vessel fleet.
Inmarsats entry into VSAT services, via the former Ship Equip business, has also been a very positive experience with XpressLink.
Frontline, the world leader in the international seaborne transportation of crude oil, committed to Inmarsat XpressLink for more than 100 vessels from its existing fleet and its planned new-builds.
Also leading Malaysian shipping conglomerate 18 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements In the emerging oil and gas market, leveraging the expertise of the former Stratos engineering and integration services Outlook department, we saw an increasing and promising opportunity for BGAN services.
In the Gulf of Mexico, a more established oil 2012 has been a challenging and exciting year.
and gas market, we continued to expand our network operations with more than 150 new WiMAX and microwave installations.
Our Inmarsat Global, MSS business returned to growth and we saw this particularly in our Maritime business.
Despite Finally, BGAN and BGAN M2M played an important role in a ongoing uncertainty in the macro-economic environment, number of utility smart-metering projects in North America and we are seeing continued growth momentum in our key Europe, with potential for a high number of deployed terminals.
Our US government business is conducted through Inmarsat Our L-band MSS business will continue to be our main Government, a security-cleared organisation operating under revenue driver for many years and we continue to invest in a Proxy Agreement with the US government.
During the year, this whether through the upcoming launch of the Alphasat we won key government contracts, working with highly capable satellite, which will become effectively an enhanced fourth sub-contractors, small businesses and vendors creating innovative Inmarsat-4 satellite, or through our continued investment in solutions.
We won a prime contract under the Custom Satcom developing market opportunities for our existing broadband Solutions contract, a US government programme, to acquire up to services of FleetBroadband, SwiftBroadband and BGAN.
US$2.6bn in satellite telecom solutions and end-to-end managed We will be active in promoting our handheld satellite phone network services over the next five years.
The CS2 programme is service and in pushing our various low data rate services.
the final segment of the Future Comsatcom Services Acquisition FCSA initiative managed jointly by the General Services We are very pleased with our progress so far on the GX Administration and the Defense Information Systems Agency.
programme and that key milestones have been retired.
We are excited about how GX will deliver future growth Inmarsat Government is also a prime contractor under the FCSA opportunities for our business and look forward to planning Schedule 70 programme that supports federal, state and local to make this a reality.
We have a strong management team governments with direct access to the highest quality commercial which is focused on delivering increased revenues and telecommunications hardware, software and services.
We are grateful to our employees for their continuing passion for the business In the US in particular, government organisations such as the and for their skill, hard work and the collaborative way in Department of Defense, the Department of State and the which they drive our business forward.
We want our teams Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA turned to be motivated and remain committed to building the to Inmarsat Government and its partners for crucial voice, Inmarsat Group into an even more successful business.
video and data connectivity to support a diverse set of land mobile communication applications.
Rupert Pearce Chief Executive Officer 7 March 2013 Inmarsat plc 19 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012
