Business and financial review Amounts and percentage movements relating to continuing Introduction segmental earnings before net financing income, tax and This business and financial review sets out descriptions intangible amortisation EBITA are stated before corporate ofeach of the groups business segments, their markets, costs of 33 million 2011: 34 million and pre-tax strategy and significant factors affecting performance for exceptional costs of 24 million 2011: 6million.
It should be read in conjunction with the information on our markets page 12, The average number of employees for the years ended our services page 18, our KPIs page 20 and our 31December 2012 and 31 December 2011 stated in this Vision2015 strategy page10.
It includes comments review includes agency staff.
onmovements in the income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement and on matters that may have Change in basis of reporting animpact on the groups future financial performance.
From 1 January 2013, the basis of reporting will be Thereview provides a broader perspective of AMECs switched from a divisional to a geographic basis, in line businesses to enable a more informed judgement to be with the management of the business.
Forinformation, made of the groups financial performance and prospects.
following the analysis of performance bydivision, the key Certain forward-looking statements with respect to the characteristics of each geography areshown.
financial condition, operations and results of AMECs businesses are contained in the review.
These statements m Further prior year comparative data is available on page 34 and our website involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual performance or developments to differ materially Divisional breakdown from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking Natural Resources statements.
The review isprovided solely to provide additional information to assist in the assessment of the Change Underlying 1 2012 2011 % % groups strategy and future prospects.
It should not be relied on for any other purpose.
Revenue m 2,416 1,742 39 20 EBITA m 192 192 in line in line Basis of presentation and EBITA margin % 8.0 11.0 300 bps  Order book bn 2.3 2.2 4 The following analysis is based on the results for Average number continuing operations before intangible amortisation 2 of employees 13,849 12,239 13 andexceptional items but including joint venture profit before interest, tax and intangible amortisation EBITA.
1 Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions, Results are presented to the nearest million.
Calculated movements in material currencies, and the impactofincremental numbers, such as EPS and margin rates, are based on procurement 2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
theunderlying numbers to one decimal place precision.
Inaccordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of Description of business discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the Principal activities: operates in two markets: oil & gas consolidated income statement.
The cash flows of 77per cent of 2012 revenues and mining.
Further details discontinued businesses are fully consolidated within on each are shown on pages 13 to 15.
AMEC up to the date of sale.
Total life of asset services provided, ranging from engineering Segmental analysis design through to asset support and decommissioning.
Segmental analysis is provided for the groups activities in Examples can be found on page 18 and 19. the Natural Resources, Power & Process and Environment & Infrastructure divisions, as well as for non-core Key facts Investments and other activities.
Approximately 68 per cent of 2012 revenues were generated by asset development capex services, withthe remainder in asset support opex International Financial Reporting Standard 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations 26 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 OverviewStrategy Go Performancevernance Financials Oil and gas activities are concentrated mainly in the for the second phase of Mad Dog field, US Gulf of Mexico: upstream sector some 90 per cent of 2012 revenues Chevron: asset support contract for the Wheatstone offshore facility, Australia: Chevron: contract extension to 63 per cent of revenue in 2012 came from Americas, provide engineering services to oil production facilities at 25 per cent from Europe and 12 per cent from Barrow Island, Australia: ENI: Blacktip contract to provide GrowthRegions.
maintenance support to onshore gas treatment plant and Principal locations: AMEC has operations in mature offshore unmanned wellhead platform, Australia: Conoco markets and frontier regions, with major offices in Phillips: two-year contract extension to provide operations Aberdeen, London, Great Yarmouth, Darlington UK : and maintenance services to the Bayu Undan facilities, Baku Azerbaijan : Calgary, Toronto, Saskatoon, Vancouver East Timor Indonesia.
Canada : Houston, TX US : Kuala Lumpur Malaysia : Mining: Swakop Uranium: AMEC joint venture awarded Kuwait City Kuwait : Abu Dhabi UAE : Perth, Brisbane Husab EPCM project, with AMEC responsible for engineering Australia : Shanghai China : Santiago Chile : Belo and project management, Namibia: Balkans Minerals & Horizonte Brazil : Lima Peru : Singapore: Johannesburg Metals: engineering and procurement services for the South Africa.
Business model: explained in more detail on page 2.
Ongoing projects include detailed engineering and Typical KPIs might include finishing on time, on budget procurement for ConocoPhillips existing Judy platform andwithout causing harm to people or the environment.
and the hook-up and commissioning of the new Jasmine Some limited lump sum or fixed price work is also facilities in the North Sea: a long-term project management undertaken, where the customer and type of work are project for KOC in Kuwait: and ongoing oil sands work for wellknown to AMEC.
This represented just 9 per cent Imperial Oil, Syncrude, Teck, Suncor and Connacher ofthe divisions revenues in 2012. among others.
Customers include: Agip KCO, Apache, Arcelor Mittal, 2012 performance Azerbaijan International Operating Company AIOC, Revenue in the Natural Resources division improved BGGroup, BP, Canadian Natural Resources Limited, 39percent to 2,416 million with good growth in both oil ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Fairfield Energy, Fortescue &gas and mining.
A strong performance in conventional Metals, Freeport-McMoran, GDF SUEZ, K&S Potash, oil & gas in the UK North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico and Kuwait Oil Company, Marine Well Containment Company, inmining throughout the Americas was further boosted Newmont Mining Corporation, PotashCorp, Shell, Teck byincremental procurement 320 million on three key Resources Ltd, Teesside Gas and Liquids Processing.
Excluding incremental procurement, underlying growth was 20 per cent.
Significant new contracts in 2012 included: Oil & gas: KNPC: PMC for new oil refinery at Al Zour, EBITA 192 million was in line with 2011, and the Kuwait: ADGAS: PMC contract for FEED phase of flaring EBITAmargin was 8.0 per cent, down 300 basis points.
and emissions reduction project for LNG facilities, Das Incremental procurement contributed to this decline as Island, UAE: ADMA OPCO: PMC for execute phase of didthe shift in work mix to the more mature regions of the Nasr Phase 1 and Umm Lulu Phase 1 field development UK North Sea and Gulf of Mexico, as previously flagged.
projects, Offshore Abu Dhabi, UAE: BP: decommissioning Inaddition, and as discussed in the half-year results, there services for Valhall production and compression platform, were delays to the Kearl initial development in the oil Norway: Talisman: five-year call-off contract to provide sands, which resulted in first half profits being lower than brownfield engineering, UK North Sea: BP: 10 million anticipated.
Asa result, the group chose to adopt a more contract to modify and extend its Kinneil Terminal, UK: cautious approach to profit-recognition in the second half.
GDF SUEZ: 60 million detail design contract for GDF Finally, market softening in Australia had an impact on SUEZs Cygnus field, UK North Sea: Centrica: five-year margin thatwas accentuated by comparison with 2011, asset support contract for mixture of manned and which sawsuccessful claim settlements in the GRD Minproc unmanned offshore assets, as well as onshore gas business and a number of positive project close-outs.
terminals, East Irish Sea: SABIC: extension to two asset Order intake improved with oil & gas activity driving the support contracts worth over 70 million over three years, increase.
The order book at 31 December 2012 was up UK: MWCC: designing and delivering components of the 4per cent at 2.3 billion.
Marine Well Containment Companys MWCC expanded containment system, US Gulf of Mexico: BP: FEED services AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 27 Business and financial review Divisional breakdown continued the Sellafield site: three-year framework contract to provide Power & Process environmental services: and Axiom joint venture awarded Change Underlying a15-year design and support framework contract, UK: 1 2012 2011 % % National Nuclear Lab: five-year contract to provide project Revenue m 973 849 15 11 management support for the refurbishment of customers EBITA m 78 72 8 4 active handling facility, UK: JAVYS: three-year contract EBITA margin % 8.0 8.5 50 bps toprovide waste treatment services to the Bohunice nuclear power plant, Slovakia: International Power Order book bn 0.8 1.0 22 Canada: EPC contract for the Brockville solar project, Average number a10-megawatt MW solar photovoltaic plant, Canada: 2 of employees 7,426 7,042 5 National Grid: AMEC JV awarded five-year extension to 1 Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions theElectricity Alliance West contract worth 650 million, and movements in material currencies toupgrade overhead power lines and underground cables 2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
across the western half of England and all of Wales.
Description of business In the North American clean energy market, good progress Principal activities: focused entirely on clean energy is being made on the Sapphire Energy biofuels project in market, operating in nuclear, renewables bioprocess, power the US, and in Canada, the 99 MW Erieau wind project and transmission & distribution sectors see pages 15 to 16 continues to advance.
Work is also continuing on a number for further details.
Provide total life of asset services, of other clean energy projects.
particularly in Europe and the Americas.
Examples are shown on page 18 to 19.
2012 performance Revenue increased 15 per cent, to 973 million in Key facts 2012 2011: 849 million.
This reflected the continued Revenue split by geography: 55 per cent from refocusing of the business, with a strong performance Americas, 44 per cent from Europe and 1 per cent inthe renewable bioprocess sector in the Americas in fromGrowth Regions.
particular and a six-month impact of the ESRC acquisition.
This was offset by a decline in conventional power, driven Revenue split by sector: 41 per cent renewables by the phasing down of the West Burton combined-cycle bioprocess: 28 per cent nuclear excluding the equity gas turbine power station project.
accounted joint venture undertaking decommissioning work at Sellafield : balance split evenly between power EBITA was up 8 per cent, to 78 million 2011: 72 million, andT&D.
which reflected revenue growth and the ESRC acquisition, with the Sellafield decommissioning joint venture Principal locations: AMEC has operations in mature contributing 15 million 2011: 20 million.
markets and frontier regions, with major offices in Atlanta, GA, Greenville, SC US : Darlington, Knutsford UK : The overall EBITA margin was down 50 basis points Santiago Chile : Toronto and Vancouver Canada.
The margin decline was largely the result ofareduced contribution from the Sellafield joint venture, Business model: The majority of services in this division where results, though in line with original expectations, are provided on a target price or cost plus basis.
Lump were below 2011. sum work represented some 35 per cent of the divisions revenues in 2012.
The order book at 31 December 2012 was 0.8 billion 2011: 1.0 billion.
The decline reflected a reduction in Customers include: Arizona Public Service, Atomic conventional power and transmission & distribution Weapons Establishment, BC Hydro, Boldt AMEC LLC, activity, consistent with the shift to cleaner energy sectors.
Bruce Power, EDF Energy, Georgia Pacific, INEOS, The tier one Sellafield decommissioning contract, as it is International Power, Kruger, Meadwestvaco, National Grid, an equity accounted joint venture, was not included in NDA, Ontario Power Generation, Research Triangle these figures.
Institute, Sapphire Energy, Sellafield Limited, Siemens, Smith Falls, Southern Company, Wales & West Utilities.
Progress continued to be made on the resolution of theolder contracts, which, as previously referenced, Significant new contracts in 2012 included: didnot meet the revised criteria of low-risk services Sellafield Ltd: four-year extension to existing contract withhigh value-add.
toprovide maintenance, asset care and restoration across 28 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 OverviewStrategy Go Performancevernance Financials Syncrude Canada Ltd, US Air Force, US Army, US Coast Environment & Infrastructure Guard, US Navy, US Environmental Protection Agency.
Change Underlying 1 2012 2011 % % Significant ongoing contracts include: Northumbrian Water Limited: technical and commercial services Revenue m 820 722 14 3 framework contracts to provide multi-disciplinary EBITA m 87 66 31 21 engineering, contract supervision services and associated EBITA margin % 10.6 9.2 140 bps environmental support as well as contract and cost Order book bn 0.5 0.5 9 management services, UK: Sydney Water: programme, Average number cost and risk management PCRM role with the network 2 of employees 6,953 6,262 11 and facilities renewals programme, Australia: KOC: PMCcontract to provide environmental remediation of 1 Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions landdamaged during 199091 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait: and movements in material currencies 2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Government Procurement Services: three-year framework agreement to provide environmental and sustainability advice, support and delivery services across the UK public Description of business sector, UK: North London Waste Authority: four-year Principal activities: worked in each of AMECs four markets, framework agreement to help deliver state-of-art new including those common to the Natural Resources and waste services infrastructure for North London, UK.
See pages 12 to 17 for the growth characteristics of each market and AMECs position.
2012 performance Specialist environmental, geotechnical, programme Revenue increased by 14 per cent to 820 million in 2012 management, engineering and consultancy services are 2011: 722 million, driven by acquisitions: MACTEC in provided to a broad range of customers in the public and June 2011 and Unidel in Australia in May 2012.
Underlying private sectors, including many common to the other revenue was down, reflecting a good performance in the divisions.
See pages 18 and 19 for further details.
oil& gas, mining and clean energy markets but slower performance in other sectors, particularly government Typically characterised by a large number of small value services.
Some 32per cent of revenues in this division contracts, with an average size of approximately $100,000.
came from markets common to Natural Resources and Power & Process 2011: 27 per cent.
Key facts Revenue split by geography: 84 per cent from Americas, EBITA increased 31 per cent in 2012 to 87 million 7per cent from Europe and 9 per cent from Growth Regions.
The sector mix improved towards thehigher margin energy markets, there were overhead Revenue split by market: 12 per cent oil & gas: 15 per cent synergies and pension benefits resulting from the mining: 5 per cent clean energy: 68 per cent environment integration of MACTEC, and increased Canadian & infrastructure.
government incentives were received for research Locations: operates from a regional network of around anddevelopment.
Overall EBITA margin increased 210 offices, mainly across North America but with an to10.6per cent 2011: 9.2 per cent.
increasing presence in Europe, South America, the The order book was up nine per cent at 0.5 billion, MiddleEast and Australasia.
benefiting from contract awards during the year.
Business model: the majority of the divisions revenue comes from smaller scale consultancy projects.
Some Investments and other activities lump sum or fixed price activity is carried out in the This principally comprised the Incheon Bridge PPP project government sector.
in Korea, now in operational phase, the groups insurance Customers include: Alberta Transportation, Atlantic captive, and AMECs residual UK wind development Richfield Company, Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines activities.
Revenue was 9 million 2011: 7 million Ltd, CSX Transportation Inc. Enbridge Pipelines Inc. withEBITA of 7 million 2011: 3 million.
Honeywell International Inc. Imperial Oil, National Parks Service, Newmont Mining Corporation, Northumbrian Water Limited, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, Shaw Constructors Inc. State of Florida, Suncor Energy Inc, AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 29
