AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Sir Colin Terry 04 Chairmans statement Chairman May I take this opportunity to thank all Meggitt employees for another outstanding year of hard work in a tough economic environment.
The first half of 2010 marked the end of a million in supplying equipment free of Our people significant downturn in civil aerospace charge to new aircraft and in making May I take this opportunity to thank markets, whilst the second half saw a programme participation contributions, all Meggitt employees for another strong recovery, with a 19% increase in mostly in the braking systems business, outstanding year of hard work in a tough total orders and a 9% increase in total securing future aftermarket revenues.
They always revenues compared to 2009s second half.
Capital expenditure on property, plant rise to the challenge and this year was and equipment and other intangible Our order book grew by 8%, with orders no different, with many having dual assets increased to 27.7 million 2009: for 2011 delivery up 12%.
Revenues roles combining transformation activity 25.6 million, including investment in a rose by 1% to 1,162.0 million and with business as usual.
We are highly group-wide ERP system.
underlying earnings per share were indebted to them.
With record net Growing by acquisition cash generation of 137.1 million 2009: Group outlook 126.0 million, net debt reduced by 11% The proposed purchase of Pacific Our energy market is expected to be a to 721.4 million 2009: 808.6 million.
Scientific Aerospace PSA, which source of healthy growth as our heat As a result, the Board is proposing an is subject to normal completion exchanger sales recover and sales to increase to the full-year dividend of 9% requirements, is a further step in the power generation customers continue to to 9.20 pence.
development of the groups products.
grow on the back of new product launches PSA is a leading supplier of fire and our expanded global network.
Transforming our business suppression, electric power, electric actuation, sensing and security products Delays in approving the US Department The year saw significant progress and will be highly complementary to of Defences 2011 budget are likely to in our transformation programme.
have an impact on new military We strengthened the business by programme awards but should have little implementing a new divisional structure Board of directors effect on existing delivery contracts and and concentrated key resources such the regular aftermarket demand at the as engineering and sales and marketing After nearly 15 years inspired service, heart of our military revenues.
teams at a divisional level to improve Sir Alan Cox retired from the Board in customer responsiveness: embedded February.
Sir Alan has provided robust The outlook for our civil markets common processes and systems across challenge and outstanding support for continues to improve.
Production of the group: invested in new technologies the executive team in equal measure and large jets is likely to remain strong in and drove through operational his sense of humour and team spirit 2011 and air traffic growth is expected excellence.
We exceeded our original contributed to the cohesiveness of the to continue to grow on the back of the savings target of 50 million per annum Board.
Whilst greatly missed he will recovery in 2010. by the end of 2010 and have increased continue to make an important We look forward to further good the target to 57 million by the end contribution as chairman of our UK progress in 2011. of 2011. pension plan trustees.
We welcome Paul Heiden who joined Investing for growth the Board in June last year.
A chartered Cutting-edge technology investment accountant, Paul was Chief Executive continues to add capabilities to our of FKI Plc from 2003 to 2008.
We continued to spend in Chairman of Talaris Topco Limited and a excess of 7% of revenues on R&D.
We non-executive director of UU Plc and the invested 28.4 million 2009: 23.9 London Stock Exchange Group plc.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
