Chairmans This is my first Chairmans statement.
My appointment statement arose after a very dif cult period for the Company.
I hope as shareholders review the progress made in reshaping the portfolio and in sharpening performance in the last year that they will be reassured we are now heading in the right direction.
The full focus is now on the business today We have dramatically reduced the number and not on history.
Our recent performance, of brands.
We have focused resources on our ability to recruit and retain talent and our core high performing brands, such as the heartening investor reaction suggests Harvester, Toby and Sizzling Pub Co. and this is starting to pay off.
are building our high potential brands, such as Miller & Carter, Browns and All Bar One.
The prospects and financial standing of your In addition, we are evolving our brands and business have been transformed in 2010. menus incorporating our well conceived We now have a Company with an agreed and delivered marketing campaigns.
strategy, with energised management and Food is now approaching 50% of our John Lovering a strong business model, and a substantial ongoing turnover.
Chairman cash balance of almost 300m in the bank.
Our net debt is now down to nearly 50% We have reviewed and made signi cant of our property valuation and is around five changes to our operational structure.
are redesigning some of our buying and supply arrangements where we expect Our trading performance has been very to save over 10m on an annualised basis.
EBITDA was 449m, up 4.9%, Our commercial team have re-examined and our operating pro t was 322m, up our 1bn non-labour related costs and 7.3%.
We have moved operating margins are nding ways to save money without up by one percentage point and grown impacting on our business.
A similar adjusted earnings per share by 26%.
We exercise is under way to ensure we get have shown that even in dif cult economic maximum value from our capital budget.
times, consumers want top quality products We will save 15% on comparable projects offering great value not just low prices.
Customer satisfaction and market share are at high and improving levels.
Mitchells We will ensure our people continue to have & Butlers is regaining its position as the the tools to do the job.
We have committed most admired operator of licensed to renew our IT platform in the restaurants catering outlets in the United Kingdom.
and pubs and will be investing up to 15m this year on new till software and other We have set a new direction for outlet based systems that will modernise Mitchells & Butlers.
More importantly, the business for our employees and we have taken strides to deliver the first customers alike.
We have changed the philosophy and style of the business.
We recognise we are a property business We are optimising our brands not our and a retail business.
Both must earn their estate.
We have therefore disposed of over keep and exceed market return goals.
550m of assets which do not have the We now report that our ongoing portfolio opportunity to grow food sales substantially.
merits an internal rent of 190m and that 02 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Reshaped to capture eating-out growth MAB pubs by type note: UK managed pubs Drinks-led total: Food-led total: 35% 65% Higher 28% 31% price Lower 7% 34% price to be converted to our portfolio of brands we made a post-rent EBITDA in the retained with outstanding chairs of our Audit I am proud of what has been achieved business of approximately 200m.
This and Remuneration Committees in Simon so far.
This Company has over 38,000 internal rent would be able to support an Burke and Mike Balfour.
We have built dedicated talented employees on an attractive yield and would imply a market a Non-Executive group of quality and ongoing basis.
They have steadfastly valuation for the business well above our experience and will look to strengthen focused on the business and our customers current share price.
through a dif cult few years.
The Board sincerely thanks them for all their efforts We have addressed our pension schemes, I would like to thank Sir Tim Lankester who and achievements.
It is our people reaching agreement with Trustees on the is standing down at the AGM for his even who deliver our product, create service funding plans and made major changes handed and thoughtful contribution to and are the face of Mitchells & Butlers.
to the pensions provision in the Company.
Ron Robson has ful lled This will minimise the uncertainty and cost the role of a representational Director with Geographic spread of our brands of pensions and remove incentives for the best interests of the Company in mind FY 2010 sales by region excellent performers to retire early.
at all times and Jeremy Blood has shown his depth of industry experience.
We have introduced new incentives to align management and shareholder interests.
We have started the 2011 financial year We have changed our operational bonus well and like-for-like sales are up by nearly plans to reward growth in pro ts not just 4%.
Like-for-like food sales are up by over the size of those pro ts.
6% and volumes are ahead by over 1%.
We have a uni ed Boardroom that has We are cautious about the outlook for managed our business in the interests of the economy and in particular consumer % 5 all shareholders.
This has been supported discretionary expenditure over the next by shareholders who understand clearly year.
We can see the threat of in ation and % 3 where we are heading.
are pleased to have xed price, long-term debt in place.
We will work hard to stay % 8 We have rebuilt our Executive Committee.
We have the A new team has been assembled under our momentum generated by our actions in 2010 % 9 exceptionally experienced Chief Executive, to be con dent that we will be amongst the % 5 Adam Fowle.
The Finance Director, winners in the dif cult environment of 2011 Property Director, Commercial Director, and beyond.
% % 15 1 HR Director and Legal Director have been % 4 recruited.
They will take the Company As indicated in May, the Board is % forward combining new blood with our committed to a resumption of dividend 18 proven operational Managing Directors payments.
The Board will monitor closely % 25 and Marketing Director.
the level of operating cash ow generation % 7 during 2011 before taking a decision on The workload on the Non-Executives in the timing and quantum of the resumption 2010 was very large and we are blessed of dividend payments.
For more information go to www.
com Mitchells & Butlers plc 03 Annual report and accounts 2010 In this section 05 Chief Executives review brands of the market and strategy 12 Corporate social responsibility 16 Financial review 19 Key performance indicators people 20 Risks and uncertainties 24 Board of Directors and Executive Committee love Sizzling Pub Co.
Friendly, comfortable local pubs offering regulars and families superb value sizzling dishes and a great choice of drinks 04 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010
