Chairmans Statement Gerald Corbett Chairman Trading improved in the second half of the year with revenue up 13% and adjusted EBITDA up 32% compared to the second half of 2009.
This momentum has continued into 2011 which has begun well.
Results Strategic progress Against a tough economic backdrop in 2009 the new The 2010 results are a reflection of the implementation of the management team stabilised the business reducing cost, Groups strategy outlined in early 2010.
Having taken decisive improving our basic business processes and establishing an action in 2009 in response to the global financial crisis and investment programme in product and brand that would realigned the cost base, the focus in 2010 has been on growing provide a solid platform to return the business to growth.
We saw the benefits of these actions in 2010 in both revenue We continued to invest during 2010 in opportunities for and profitability.
Revenue improved throughout the course of profitable growth through the launch of enhanced market the year and ended the year 9% ahead as a whole having been leading motor insurance, home insurance, savings and credit 5% ahead at the end of the first half of the year.
Adjusted card channels, together with the acquisition of Financial EBITDA increased by 14% in the year having been broadly flat at Services Net Limited which provides a platform for the Group the end of the first half as a result of our front loaded to broaden its brand offering to a wider range of customer investment programme.
segments in the Money and Insurance verticals.
Profitability improved markedly in the second half of the year Our strategy will continue to underpin the Group throughout increasing by 32% over the same period in 2009 as the Group 2011 as we launch further enhanced market leading channels began to see the benefits of its investment programme.
to ensure we deliver the best customer experience through our websites and as we ensure our customers have the tools they These results reflect the continuing strength and diversity need to compare products based on the features that are of our business model as our Insurance, Money and Home important to them.
Services verticals all grew helping to offset the declines experienced in our Travel vertical, which continued to suffer Outlook in line with the rest of the travel market and consequently The new year has begun well and, whilst we remain alert to continued to be managed for margin.
the continuing uncertainty in the wider economic environment, we are confident that the worst is behind us and that we will Dividend continue to grow in 2011.
Our strong market positions and our The Company paid an interim dividend of 1.3p per ordinary diversified business model will remain key strengths as share on 17 September 2010, consistent with the interim economic conditions improve.
Governance and the Board During the year, the business continued to generate cash, and we Since the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange in ended the year with cash balances of 36.6m.
With the business 2007, our Board and executive governance structures have growing, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.53p per continually developed and improved.
We believe that good ordinary share, a 15% increase on the final dividend paid in 2008 governance reduces risk and adds value to the business.
and 2009 excluding the impact of special dividends.
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will bring the total dividend for the year to 3.83p per ordinary share and will be paid on 13 May 2011 to all shareholders on the register at 8 April 2011.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Following the changes to the Board in early 2009 with the appointment of Peter Plumb as Chief Executive Officer together with the appointments of Graham Donoghue and David Osborne as Executive Directors, in April 2010 the Board appointed Bruce Carnegie-Brown as an additional Non-Executive Director.
Bruce has brought a wealth of experience in the financial services sector to the business and has provided greater balance to the Board.
With the implementation of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of our Directors will retire at this years Annual General Meeting, and being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Employees 2010 saw valuable additions to our team as we continued to position the business for future growth.
The quality of our people continues to be a core strength and I am delighted that we have further enhanced our capabilities in so many parts of the business.
Our results this year are down to the performance of Peter Plumb, his management team and all the employees who continue to build the business.
I would like to thank them all for their skill and hard work during the year.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday 4 May 2011 at Doubletree by Hilton Chester Hotel, Warrington Road, Hoole, Chester, CH2 3PD and I look forward to seeing you there.
com Group PLC 9 Annual Report 2010
