04 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Chairmans Statement 2010 was a landmark year for the Group, with the successful completion of the Esperanza mine.
Commissioning of the plant commenced in November 2010, with the first shipment of copper concentrate taking place in January 2011.
As a result of Esperanza coming on-stream, along with the completion of the LosPelambres plant expansion during the rstquarter of 2010, Group copper  expected to increase toapproximately 715,000 tonnes in 2011, a60% increase on the pre-expansion 2009levels.
Jean-Paul Luksic, Chairman Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 05 Net earnings increased by 57.5% to US$1,051.8 million compared with Strategy US$667.7 million in 2009, reecting improved commodity prices and The strategy for the Groups mining business continues to be based on three increasedproduction volumes.
Cash ows from operations were keypillars.
Firstly, securing and strengthening the core business of the Group US$2,433.9million, compared with US$1,167.8 million in 2009, mainly the Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla mines: secondly, reecting the increase in profits.
At the end of 2010 the Group had a net continuing to grow this core business by further developing the areas around its cashposition of US$1,345.1 million and total cash, cash equivalents and existing asset base the Sierra Gorda District around Esperanza and El Tesoro, liquidinvestments of US$3,541.6 million.
the area around Los Pelambres, and areas close to Michilla, including the Antucoya deposit: and nally, continuing to develop and search for additional Group copper production was 521,100 tonnes, compared with 442,500 tonnes opportunities including early-stage growth in copper both in Chile and abroad.
This 17.8% increase was mainly due to increased production at LosPelambres, reecting higher throughput as a result of the plant expansion.
The successful execution of the Esperanza mine and the Los Pelambres plant Molybdenum production at Los Pelambres was 8,800 tonnes, a 12.8% increase expansion were major achievements in the Groups growth plans.
The Group has on 2009, again due to the plant expansion.
The transport and water divisions also made significant progress with its longer-term growth prospects.
In the both achieved increased volumes.
Sierra Gorda District, mineral resource estimates were completed during 2010 inrespect of the Telgrafo and Caracoles deposits, totalling 3.9 billion tonnes Our careful financial stewardship during the recent years of development will with an average copper grade of 0.38% and containing additional gold and allow a substantial return of capital through the proposed special dividend, molybdenum credits.
This gives a total of 6.1 billion tonnes with an average whilethe significant increase in the ordinary dividend underlines our increased copper grade of 0.39% in the Sierra Gorda District.
At Los Pelambres a scoping production base and confidence in our future prospects.
Our financial position study is examining the key enablers which could allow the mine to utilise its remains strong and we remain well placed to progress with our substantial significant resource base in the longer term, which could potentially lead to a growth opportunities which we have continued to enhance over the past year.
significant increase in the scale of the operation later this decade.
A feasibility During 2010 the Chilean government enacted a number of changes to the study is in progress at the Antucoya deposit, evaluating the potential for a project Chilean tax system in order to contribute to the reconstruction costs following producing approximately 80,000 tonnes of copper per year.
At the Reko Diq thesevere earthquake which affected the country on 27 February 2010, jointventure, work on the feasibility study and the environmental and social including changes to both the corporate tax rates and the mining royalty.
impact assessment study are both complete and have been submitted to the TheGroups four mining operations, Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Government of Balochistan.
Further progress on this project will be dependent Michilla, which have invariability agreements in place with regard to the mining onthe grant of the mining lease for which an application has been made, and tax, have voluntarily elected to accept amendments enacted in respect of this successful conclusion of litigation which is currently in progress before the tax.
In exchange for waiving protection for a three-year period from 2010-2012, Supreme Court of Pakistan.
In July 2010 the Group signed a denitive the companies will be granted an additional stability period of six years at the agreement with Duluth Metals Limited to acquire an initial 40% stake in the endof their existing agreements, during which any connected projects will also Nokomis  group metal deposit, a potentially world-class benefit from tax invariability.
Further details of the tax charge for the year and base and precious metal deposit located in the highly prospective Duluth thetax structure applicable to the Group are set out in the Financial Review Complex in Minnesota, and work is progressing in respect of the feasibility study.
The Group has also expanded its portfolio of early-stage international earn-in agreements.
The Group is also continuing with its exploration and development Earnings per share activities relating to geothermal and coal energy prospects in Chile.
06 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Chairmans Statement continued Health and safety The Board deeply regrets the death of two contractors at Los Pelambres during 2010.
The Board has a clear target of zero fatalities and considers any fatality tobe unacceptable.
Following these incidents, further safety training and awareness raising has been provided for workers.
Los Pelambres has also introduced changes to increase the linkage between safety performance and remuneration, with 25% of bonuses now based on whether the sites lost time injury frequency target has been met.
Dividends In light of the successful completion of the key growth projects and the strong financial position of the Group, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 112 cents per share, comprising an ordinary dividend of 12 cents per share and a special dividend of 100 cents per share, which, if approved, will amount to a payment in June 2011 of US$1,104.2 million.
Taking this payment into account, the Groups financial position remains strong and it remains well placed to take advantage of its considerable growth prospects as these continue to progress.
Sustainable development This gives total dividends for the year of 116 cents, amounting to US$1,143.6 million and representing a distribution of 109% of 2010 net earnings.
Sustainable development forms an integral part of the Groups  and supports achievement of our business strategy.
The Board The Boards policy is to establish an ordinary dividend which can be maintained continues to place key importance on a range of considerations including health or progressively increased at conservative long-term copper prices and through and safety, management of human resources, environment and community the economic cycle.
In addition, the Board recommends special dividends when relations.
Effective management of social and environmental issues reduces it considers these appropriate after taking into account the level of profits earned costs and risks to our business, supports our reputation, underpins our in the period under review, the existing cash position of the Group and significant relationships with key stakeholders including investors, regulators, known or expected funding commitments.
The Boards overall policy remains employeesand communities, and helps us to maintain our social licence unchanged and the level of distribution in future years, including any special or tooperate and grow.
additional dividends, will depend on the factors set out above.
As a Group, we have been very proud to be able to play a part in the Dividends per share reconstruction efforts in Chile following the earthquake and resulting tsunami ofFebruary 2010 which had a devastating impact on the Maule and Bio-Bio US cents Regions.
Five days after the earthquake we had a team and equipment working 105 in the severely affected town of Curepto in the Maule Region providing assistance 90 and clearing debris.
We also engaged with the authorities and established a 75 US$10 million recovery fund, which has been mainly used for Antofagasta 60 Minerals S. A. s Coastal Route project to support the recovery of artisanal 45 30 shing, which had been severely affected, as well as strengthening tourist and 15 community infrastructure.
In addition to this financial contribution, Antofagasta 0 Minerals is contributing management expertise used in large mining projects 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 tohelp implement the project.
Both for the Group as a whole as well as for 48.2 49.6 60.0 23.4 116.0 theindividuals directly involved, the project has been a very positive and 8.2 8.6 9.0 9.4 16.0 rewarding experience.
Including special dividend Excluding special dividend Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 07 As a Group, we have been very proud to be able to play a part in the reconstruction efforts in Chile following the earthquake ofFebruary 2010.
Outlook Market fundamentals remain positive and, while the high level of volatility that hascharacterised commodity prices in recent years is expected to continue, consensus estimates are for copper prices to remain favourable in 2011.
Supplyconstraints and underlying demand could keep the copper market indecit for a number of years.
As previously announced, the initial forecast for 2011 Group copper production isfor approximately 715,000 tonnes, a 37% increase on 2010 levels, mainly dueto the production from Esperanza, although this will depend on a number offactors including the precise timing of the completion of the ramp-up of thatoperation.
Molybdenum production at Los Pelambres is expected to be approximately 9,300 tonnes compared with 8,800 tonnes in 2010, due to the full-year impact of increased plant throughput as a result of the plant expansion completed in the first quarter of 2010.
The payable gold content in copper concentrate is expected to be approximately 324,000 ounces compared with 35,100 ounces in 2010, also as a result of Esperanza, although again this will depend on the precise timing of the completion of the ramp-up of that operation.
The Groups very sizeable resource base within Chile provides excellent opportunities for longer-term organic expansion, and its expanding portfolio ofexploration and development agreements provides further potential for international growth.
The Groups continued strong financial position means itiswell placed to progress with all of these opportunities.
Board composition I am very pleased to be able to welcome two new Non-Executive Directors to theAntofagasta plc Board, who both bring great experience of the international mining industry.
Hugo Dryland is Global Head of Rothschilds investment banking J-P Luksic activities in the mining and metals sector, and has 25 years of investment Chairman banking experience in natural resources.
Tim Baker was latterly Executive 7 March 2011 Vice-President and Chief Operating officer at Kinross Gold Corporation, and previously Executive General Manager of Placer Dome Chile.
He has previously managed mining operations in Chile, the United States, Tanzania and Venezuela and held geological and production roles in Kenya and Liberia.
Daniel Yarur retired from the Board on 1 March 2011.
Danielhad been a Non-Executive Director of Antofagasta plc since 2004, and we are very grateful for his significant contribution to the Group over this period and would like to wish himevery success for the future.
