Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement Overview For another year, in improving macroeconomic conditions, Morgan Crucible has proved the strength of its strategy.
Strong profit progression and cash generation enable the Board confidently to recommend an 11.1% increase in the final dividend.
As I reported last year, 2009 was the test of our strategy.
A portfolio of higher margin, more differentiated businesses enabled margins and operating profits to hold up well, despite the severity of the downturn.
Firm and early action to reduce the cost base and align it with demand paid off and gave us a good platform to benefit from the somewhat better conditions and improving demand of 2010.
Tim Stevenson Group revenue broke the billion-pound Chairman threshold at 1,017.1 million, compared to 942.6 million in 2009.
Underlying operating profit at 101.6 million compared The quality of our business, to 77.0 million in 2009, and underlying diluted earnings per share was 17.8 pence the targeting of opportunities 2009: 12.6 pence.
The determined focus on cash generation resulted in a net cash in faster growth end-markets inflow from operating activities which was 10.1% improved on 2009 at 148.1 million.
and geographies and good Dividend operational leverage have Against this background the Board is recommending an 11.1% increase in the together enabled delivery of final dividend to 5.0 pence per Ordinary share, bringing the total dividend for the much improved levels of profit.
30 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dividend per share Board Outlook Pence The Board divided its time during the year Despite the recovery we have seen in 2010 between staying close to short-term across the majority of our end-markets 7.7 2010 operating performance in a global economy and geographies, the external environment 7.0 2009 that remained uncertain, and considering remains uncertain and volatile.
Well- 7.0 the ways in which the Group can develop rehearsed issues such as European sovereign 2008 6.75 and evolve strategically given its new focus debt and emerging market inflationary 2007 and distinctive strengths.
As part of its pressures require us to be cautious in the 4.5 2006 operational engagement, the Board has face of potential new shocks to the global continued to hold a number of its meetings macro-economy.
Despite that, both your each year at different Group locations.
Board and the executive management team This has provided an important opportunity remain confident that our position is strong, both to get to know local management both in the short-term and over a multi-year better and to understand in greater depth horizon.
the opportunities and challenges within Morgan Crucible has a strong and effective individual businesses.
Both this and, consequently, the was an intensive and very productive week growing success and confidence of its visiting five of the Groups manufacturing business are, of course, due to the hard plants in China.
work, enthusiasm and commitment of all During the year Dr Andrew Hosty joined our employees around the world.
The Board the Board as a Director following the hugely appreciates all that they do for announcement of the amalgamation of the the Group.
Technical Ceramics and Thermal Ceramics Tim Stevenson Businesses.
This appointment reflects not Chairman only the importance of this structural move but also the strong performance of the Technical Ceramics Business under Andrews leadership, and the particular skills and experience of Morgan Crucibles business that he brings to the Boards debates.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 31
