Chairmans statement Selim Zilkha, who founded Mothercare in 1961, said that Mothercare aimed to provide Everything for mother and her baby under one roof.
That vision remains intact, though the roof in question is now as likely to be in Ian Peacock Mumbai or Moscow as in Manchester.
Indeed our stores now contain a greater Chairman range of products than ever before.
Most of our Parenting Centres include both Mothercare and Early Learning Centre outlets and many also contain Clarks shoe and baby photography concessions.
Furthermore if we do not happen to carry a product in a particular store, our online service provides access to an even greater range.
For example, our largest stores stock up to 70 pushchairs, strollers, buggies and prams and our website contains 475.
This year we began three initiatives, all in alternative routes to market, which in the longer term we anticipate may have major implications for the development of the Mothercare group.
The first two initiatives, both within our wholesale route to market, indicate the opportunities that we now have to build on our successes to date.
The Mothercare brand is known and trusted amongst consumers in many countries.
We have therefore begun to test the sales of Mothercare branded toiletries in the UK, India and elsewhere sold through third-party retailers as well as in our own stores.
So far, the consumer response has been very positive and we anticipate that the growth of Mothercare branded goods sold through third parties will grow rapidly.
We also have skills in sourcing, buying and merchandising products for mothers and babies which can be invaluable for retailers whose core business is in other product areas but who wish to offer these goods.
For example, this year we signed an exclusive agreement with Boots to offer childrens clothing within their stores.
The third initiative is to develop an online capability in each of our overseas markets.
We will trial new facilities and, depending on the results, expand an online offer throughout our international business.
We will learn a great deal about our global customer as a result of this exercise.
Growth in our international business continues to be very healthy and the initiatives described above should further enhance that growth.
The initiatives may also provide some growth for the UK business, though we accept that this is a mature market and that the UK economy may be a sluggish performer for some time.
We have gradually been reducing the groups relative exposure to the UK economy over the past eight years and we intend that this process will continue.
I should like to thank Ben and his team for their skill and dedication in guiding us through a very dif cult period for the domestic and international economies and the board for their insight and unfailing help.
Later this year, our group company secretary Clive Revett will retire after 23 years with the group.
On behalf of the board I should like to thank Clive for the great contribution he has made to the success of Mothercare.
We wish him a happy and ful lled retirement.
Mothercare has been transformed over the last eight years.
Nevertheless we are conscious both of the huge opportunities which remain and also of the attendant risks.
In Mothercares 50th year we intend to remain true to Selim Zilkhas original inspiration, as adapted to the needs and aspirations of the twentyfirst century consumer wherever they happen to live.
indd 5 27 5 10 19:56:04 Overview Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Business review Our business The Mothercare group is comprised principally of two iconic retail brands with international appeal: Mothercare and Early Learning Centre.
It also owns the internet social networking site for parents, Gurgle.
The Mothercare brand is an indispensable part of the process of parenting.
Ben Gordon The Mothercare brand has global appeal and reach providing a one stop shop Chief Executive shopping environment in-store in 52 countries which, allied to its worldwide internet and catalogue business, provides the widest range of products for mothers-to-be and children up to eight years old with maternity and childrens clothing, accessories, furniture, home furnishings, feeding, bathing, travel equipment and toys.
Mothercare prides itself in being a specialist retailer, providing products that are safe, innovative and relevant to parents faced with the ever changing demands of bringing up children and helping them to meet the needs and aspirations of their children, worldwide.
The Early Learning Centre also has a strong brand heritage.
Originally founded as a mail order business providing toys and books with educational content, it extended its reach into stores both in the United Kingdom and overseas.
It too has a multi-channel approach offering customers the choice to shop in-store, on the net or through the seasonal catalogues.
The Early Learning Centre brand provides eight major categories of toys and games primarily from birth to six years old.
Both Mothercare and Early Learning Centre source products from around the world.
The group co-ordinates the sourcing of its products through three principal sourcing offi ces, one each in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Bangalore.
These offi ces are the conduit for innovative and exclusive product development.
Product sourced from our key markets is then consolidated and shipped to our stores around the world via a dedicated supply chain designed to be both cost and environmentally effi cient.
com is our social networking site providing support and a wealth of information to registered users on all aspects of parenting as well as giving new mothers the chance of sharing experiences.
Mothercare strategy We have four key growth channels through which we develop our two brands: 1.
