Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report another record set of results for N Brown Group for the 52 weeks to 27 February 2010.
This highlights the strength of our business and strategy as these results have been delivered during a challenging year due to the economic recession.
Financial Results The more cautious approach we applied Total group revenues increased by 4.2% to credit granting and improvements to to 690.0m and by 3.3% on a likefor-like our stock-turn ratio have contributed to a basis, excluding our international business 48.2m reduction in our net borrowings and the sales from High & Mighty which to 170.1m.
This reduction, combined we acquired in September 2009.
Internet with lower interest rates, has resulted in sales grew by 21% to 272m during the net finance costs of only 4.5m 2009, year.
Operating profits were up by 2.2% 12.8m, which are covered 21 times by at 97.6m and profits before fair value operating profits.
Gearing has fallen to adjustment to financial instruments and 53% 2009, 77% based on net assets of tax were up 12.6% at 93.1m.
Borrowing facilities before tax and after fair value adjustments of 320m remain in place until the first to financial instruments were 85.7m.
quarter of 2012, the increased headroom Our focus has consistently been on giving ample scope for our growth plans.
adjusted profit before tax which reflects the underlying performance of the group and the basis on which the business is managed.
Adjusted earnings per share have grown by 12.8% to 24.77p.
The board is proposing an unchanged final dividend of 6.41p, which gives a total dividend for the year of 10.79p, up by 17.4%, covered 2.3 times, reflecting our confidence in the business.
We decided to rebalance the split between our interim and final dividend payments at the half year and going forward we expect to pay approximately 45% of the full year dividend at the interim stage.
4 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Trading Highlights Corporate Social Responsibility Sales for the 8 weeks to 24 April 2010 are During the year, the key highlights have We recognise that in addition to driving 4.1% up on last year, or 3.1% on a likebeen: shareholder value it is important that we for-like basis.
We will continue to closely act as a responsible corporate citizen.
manage the balance between controlled Ongoing development of our portfolio To this end we have made great strides in revenue growth and our credit policies of brands targeted on clearly defined reducing our carbon footprint and overall in line with the economic environment.
In particular energy usage, we have a record number of This may restrict the potential rate of we saw strong growth from our newer employees engaged in charitable activities, revenue growth this year but it will also brands such as Marisota targeting and we continue to refine our ethical contribute to a reduction in the bad debt contemporary, confident women in their sourcing process.
The measures we have taken 50s and Jacamo offering younger have resulted in a business well-placed branded menswear in larger sizes to Outlook to continue growing in the current the under 45s.
Looking forward, we anticipate continued economic conditions and the board pressure on consumer spending as well remains confident that the group can Growth across all of our major product as further volatility in global exchange make further progress this year.
categories as we continue to develop rates and commodity prices.
However, the ranges around our core strengths as we have demonstrated over many The strong performance in the last year in terms of size and fit.
We have again years, the flexibility of our business model in a challenging market has only been continued to see strong demand for and cost base means we are capable of possible through the commitment and our expanded branded and celebrity reacting quickly to market trends and this hard work of our management team designed ranges, such as by Mica Paris.
has enabled us to consistently increase and staff along with the support of our sales and profits in recent years.
suppliers and trade union and I would The strategy to expand our menswear like to thank them all for their excellent sales led to a 17% increase in revenues We will continue to follow a multi-channel contribution.
This includes the strategy, focused on developing market benefit of the acquisition of the High & niches through targeted customer offers Mighty brand and selected assets in with products designed to fit their September 2009, with its niche offering individual needs, followed by active across 14 high street stores and the cross-selling promotions.
investment in our online systems will facilitate incremental selling opportunities.
Lord Alliance of Manchester, CBE Further development of our e-commerce In parallel we have an ongoing plan to activities, which delivered a sales drive further service enhancements and increase of 21% and now account for more delivery options.
They also generate benefits in terms of lower We have recently launched two further transaction processing costs.
brands to build our portfolio: Thats My Style presents customers in their late 50s The successful launch of Simply Be with our clothing and footwear ranges website and catalogue in Germany as displayed in a contemporary format: and we continue to build an international Williams and Brown is targeted at the presence.
50-year old man with a classic, but stylish, range of menswear.
In addition we plan to develop High & Mighty by combining its revamped high street stores with a strong internet and catalogue offerings.
Our international trials will continue with the launch of Simply Be in the USA in late summer 2010 and building our customer base in Germany.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5
