Overview A year of progress Chairmans letter I am pleased to report that 2010 has been successful on In 2009 the Board made the difficult decision to suspend the many fronts for National Express.
Following a turbulent dividend to shareholders.
Recognising the return to stability of 2009, we are rebuilding a high quality business, focused National Express and the improvement in earnings and cash on its core operations and established on a sound generation, the Board is proposing its restoration, with a final financial footing.
dividend for 2010 of 6 pence per share, payable on 13 May 2011 to shareholders on the register on 26 April 2011.
The Board In my statement to shareholders 12 months ago I stated that believes the dividend should be set at a level where it is at least our new Group Chief Executive and his management team two times covered by annual earnings and fully funded from free would be implementing and refining our strategy improving cash flow.
It should also be sustainable and progressive going margins, driving cash and delivering selective, value-creating forward.
We have established the initial dividend at a level which is growth.
I am delighted to state that in 2010 that is exactly supported by the non-rail business of the Group.
As we continue what has been achieved.
With shareholder support, we put to improve profitability in other businesses and rehabilitate our in place an appropriate capital structure, almost halving debt position in the UK rail industry, we expect to grow the future since December 2008.
During 2010 we have steadily restored dividend accordingly.
margins, stabilised and begun to grow revenue, and started to make targeted investment in future growth.
These initiatives have generated a strong recovery in Group profitability: we The Board is proposing finished 2010 with profits nearly 15% higher than the markets expectations at the start of the year, delivering an improvement in a final dividend of 6 pence normalised Group profit before tax over 2009 of over 44 million.
Much of the credit for this should go to the management team that is now in place.
Since joining the Group in February 2010, By the end of 2011, we expect to be delivering at least to industry Dean Finch has brought clarity and operational focus throughout average margins across all our businesses, with industry-leading the Group.
Our five divisions have strong leadership, including performance in several areas.
Whilst we remain focused on the three appointments of recognised industry leaders during the completion of this business recovery phase, we have begun year and one internal promotion.
Together, the Executive has the next step of our strategy, delivering selective expansion reinvigorated businesses that are now positioned to leverage through organic growth, winning new contracts and, in due their strong positions across their markets and to look at targeted course, securing targeted bolt-on acquisitions.
This next phase opportunities to achieve growth.
will continue to reflect the principles we have established in our Led by Jez Maiden, our Group Finance Director, we have recovery we will deliver operational excellence: we will focus restructured the balance sheet, with two bond issues that have on cash generation: and we will only invest where there are clear extended the debt maturity profile out to between 2014 and returns for shareholders.
2020, allowing management to focus on operational execution.
In delivering this improvement in performance, the Executive and Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our employees I have been ably supported by a strong and stable Board.
I would for their hard work and dedication during the year.
Their like to thank my Board colleagues for their advice and direction performance and delivery is evident in the results that we report as we have restored performance and pride across the Group.
I would also thank our shareholders for the support that they have shown in the last 15 months and the faith that I would particularly like to thank Ray OToole, Chief Operating they have placed in us to achieve our recovery programme.
I am Officer, who decided to retire during the year.
He has made a confident that National Express Group is now in a strong position tremendous contribution to the Group over the years, first joining to complete its recovery.
I look forward to moving on to the next the Board in 1999, and steering our operations through a difficult stage of our development.
I wish him well for the future.
John Devaney Chairman 24 February 2011 National Express Group PLC 1
