Chairmans Statement 2 The year to January 2010 was an exceptional year for Next, with growth in earnings per share of 21% to a new record for the Group of 188.5p.
It was an extraordinary year.
At the beginning of the year we faced an unstable economy, falling sales and Sterling weakness against both the US Dollar and the Euro, our main purchasing currencies.
In the event the consumer economy has been relatively stable.
The efforts of our buying teams and the support of our suppliers have helped us hold prices and increase revenues.
In addition, the strengths which I outlined in my statement last year, particularly the strength of our management team, have enabled us to contain costs, improve our products and continue to invest in our business.
Our cash generation remained robust, allowing us to increase our proposed full year dividend by 20% to 66p, buy back 120 million of our shares and reduce net debt by over 200 million to 400 million.
This leaves the Group in a very strong financial position.
We will continue to expand our store portfolio, particularly our new Home stores which have proved to be a great success this year.
We have revamped our UK website and are now trading online in 35 countries outside of the UK.
However, our main strategy of investing in the Next brand and improving and extending our product ranges will remain our focus for the foreseeable future.
Nick Brookes, having joined the Board in 2003, is stepping down at the AGM in May and I would like to thank him for his contribution over the last seven years.
We will be appointing a new non-executive director after the AGM and a further announcement will be made in due course.
Much of what we have achieved this year is due to the commitment and hard work of all our employees.
These results are a testimony to their success.
I would like to thank them all for the contribution they have made.
We remain confident that our operating model and financial strength position us well to make further progress in uncertain times.
John Barton Chairman Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010
