Chairmans Letter Chairmans Letter Many important elements of the Groups long-term growth Dear Shareholder strategy came together in 2010, to create a more diverse business.
Paces strategy is enabling it to build leadership positions from emerging markets such as South America and I am pleased to be reporting back to you India through to the most advanced markets in North America at the conclusion of a significant year for where Pace products are enabling networked voice, video and data in peoples homes.
Pace: the business has evolved to address In 2010 Pace was named the worlds number one in digital new opportunities while continuing to set-top box technology, by diversifying its product range across create shareholder value with a 35.6% cable, satellite and IP platforms and across geographies over 95% of Group revenues are generated overseas.
Geographic increase in underlying earnings.
diversification will continue as the Group addresses more emerging markets.
The acquisition of 2Wire, Latens and Bewan during the year, in addition to organic business developments, is enabling the Group to grow its business with telecoms operators and diversify its capabilities even further with gateways, software and professional services.
Already with the 2Wire acquisition Pace has become one of the leading players in the global market for advanced telecom gateways.
The Groups ability to grow has been facilitated by a decentralised business model that enables close customer relationships at the point of delivery.
This is important as while Paces markets have a number of broad evolving trends, each individual market and customer is evolving at different rates and can have vastly differing technology requirements.
The bespoke nature of Paces business will continue as customers in advanced markets embrace new home networking and whole home capabilities and our technology increasingly places us at the heart of convergence for the digital home of the future.
It is highly satisfying for me and the rest of the Board to see how the management team and our people around the world have done such an excellent job in building Paces global leadership.
In this year their achievements have ranged from delivering over 20 million products to a global customer base of over 160 operators an heroic effort bearing in mind supply chain challenges to impressive work in laying important foundations for the Groups future growth in 2011 and beyond.
I would also like to welcome all of the new employees that became part of the Pace Group in 2010.
In recognition of our growth and long-term earnings potential, the Board continues to build on the progressive dividend policy that was introduced in 2009.
I am pleased that the Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.45p per share, giving a full year dividend of 2.175p per share, a 45% increase on 2009.
If you have any comments on my letter or any part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted to hear from you either by writing to me at Pace or by email at mike.
Yours sincerely Mike McTighe Chairman 8 March 2011 Pace plc Annual Report | 04 2010 R&A Front.
