06 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 chairmans statement dear shareholder, We have a clear Welcome to our report to you for 2010. strategy, a talented It was another challenging year for your company.
Theglobal economy did begin to crawl out of recession, but governments, businesses and team and a proud consumers continued to suffer the aftershocks of thefinancial crisis.
Confidence was in short supply, record of performance.
andmy own guess isthat its likely to remain that way for some time.
once again, that was But once again, Pearson rose to the challenge.
As youll have seen, your company posted operating profit and rewarded with good earnings growth of 15% and 19% respectively.
Beneath those numbers for all of Pearson stand excellent returns for shareholders.
results in all parts Penguin, the Financial Times Group and our education company.
For that, all ourtalented people deserve every credit.
On two especially important performance measures operating cash flow and return on capital we hit all-time highs of 1.06bn and 10.3% respectively.
Andmuch more important than any single year, thiscontinues a trend of consistent, reliable growth through good times and bad.
Over the past five years, our profits, earnings per share and free cash flow have all doubled.
Once again, that strong operational performance was rewarded with good returns for shareholders.
After a glen moreno chairman substantial increase of almost 40% in 2009 our shares began 2010 at 891p.
They ended the year 13% higher, just above ten pounds.
That growth was a little faster than the overall market the FTSE 100 was up 9% but a little slower than our sector as advertising-funded companies that had been hit hard during the recession enjoyed a sharp recovery the DJ Stoxx 600 Media index was up 13% and the FTSE All-Share Media index21%.
The second element of our return to shareholders the dividend was further increased in 2010.
So our total shareholder return which combines both the share price movement and dividends paid was up 17% for the year this coming on top of a gain of close to 50% in 2009.
Again, this was ahead of the FTSE 100 up 13%, but behind the DJ Stoxx 600 Media up 18% and the FTSE media sector up 25%.
IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 1 Introduction 07 we all read, learn and communicate are snowballing.
SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE 1 YEAR % CHANGE 01.01.10 31.12.10 These twin forces technology and globalisation have been the dominant trends throughout my business career and Pearsons strategies, opportunities Pearson 13.1% and risks are to a very great extent shaped by them.
FTSE 100 9.0% Asreliable as our growth has been, we cannot take it FTSE All-Share Media 21.1% for granted: as Marjorie writes in her strategy review, Stoxx Europe 600 Media E 13.3% we have to keep on investing and changing.
SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE 3 YEAR % CHANGE These are the strategic matters that consume the 01.01.08 31.12.10 attention of our people and the board.
Your board believes it can contribute most to Pearsons success Pearson 37.7% byfocusing on four key themes: governance, strategy, 8.6% FTSE 100 business performance and people.
Our annual board FTSE All-Share Media 2.7% cycle and meeting agendas are formally structured 20.2% Stoxx Europe 600 Media E around these things.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 1 YEAR % CHANGE governance 01.01.10 31.12.10 As a board, our belief is that good governance supports the long-term development of strategy Pearson 17.3% andgood performance.
We are determined not to FTSE 100 12.6% second-guess a highly experienced and effective FTSE All-Share Media 24.7% executive management team: but we do believe that Stoxx Europe 600 Media E 18.0% robust, open board debate brings a discipline to important decisions and adds a valuable and diverse TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 3 YEAR % CHANGE 01.01.08 31.12.10 set of external perspectives.
Were fortunate to have a varied group of nonPearson 57.3% executive directors drawn from successful businesses FTSE 100 2.8% and education institutions with deep experience of FTSE All-Share Media 13.9% global corporate strategy, education, consumer 8.9% Stoxx Europe 600 Media marketing and technology.
Terry Burnss decision Source: Datastream as at 31 December 2010 todepart from the board last year, soon followed bytheuntimely death of CK Prahalad, left us with So, there is much to be proud of and I convey my anunexpected imbalance between executive and thanks and congratulations to everyone at Pearson.
We have addressed this But we cannot look back: our markets are filled with withthe recent appointment of Josh Lewis as a change and we have much to be cautious about.
We believe Josh will make anexcellent addition to our board.
We are currently Theeconomic recovery is not assured and in many looking to make one further non-executive parts of the world debt both public and private directorappointment.
At the same time, the disruptive transformations that have been reshaping Pearson for some time slower growth in our traditional markets set against rapid expansion in the so-called developing world: and the revolutionary impact of connected digital technologies on the way 08 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 chairmans statement continued strategy I am convinced that this steady reallocation of resources into learning companies that are heavily At each board meeting your board reviews the oriented towards developing markets and new detailed strategy and long-term plans for one or more technologies is an excellent strategy for Pearson of our businesses.
Once a year, at a specific two-day topursue.
Our return on capital from all acquired meeting, the board considers Pearsons overall companies from 20022010 is 12%, well above our strategy.
We analyse in detail the market conditions average cost of capital.
and trends facing us, and consider the long-term goals and plans of all parts of Pearson.
We have an open and Business performance robust debate over major strategic issues such as the shape of the company, the potential value to be At the start of each year, in addition to reviewing created by further acquisitions and disposals, and the long-term strategic plans, the board debates and priorities for capital allocation and organic investment.
agrees a  one-year operating Marjories letter to shareholders, which begins on plan.
It focuses on a balanced mix of financial goals page10, is as always an excellent summary of our sales growth, margins, earnings, cash and working strategic direction.
capital reduction which are intended to contribute tothe long-term financial goals of the company, to align As I wrote in my letter to shareholders last year, executive compensation with shareholders interests Pearson is a company that has totally transformed itself and to avoid an excessive focus on any single financial over the past decade.
Yet even by our standards, 2010 measure.
These targets in turn form the basis of our was a year of dramatic change.
As a board we debated expectations for the year and for executive and approved Pearsons largest disposal ever: the compensation.
At every board meeting, we hear from $2.0bn sale of our stake in Interactive Data to Silver the companys chief financial officer and executive Lake and Warburg Pincus.
We looked at all the directors on the companys business performance acquisitions that the company made during the year relative to plan.
including significant investments to expand our position in fast-growing developing markets such as This past year, in monitoring business performance the Brazil, India and Africa.
And we also, as a matter of board has paid particularly close attention to risk routine, revisited acquisitions made in prior years to management.
You can read our full discussion of the assess their performance against the plans originally material risks affecting the company from page 35: they laid out for them.
In 2010, in addition to reviewing are dominated by risks related to a prolonged period returns and lessons learned from capital allocation of low economic growth and the transformational shift decisions over the past seven or so years, towards digital delivery and business models.
weconducted detailed post-acquisition reviews ofacquisitions completed during2008.
cHange at pearson oper atIng profIt 35% 81% 7% 11% 12% 1999 2010 OPERATING PROFIT OPERATING PROFIT 449m UK GAAP 857m IFRS 15% Education North American Education FT Group International Education Penguin Professional FT Group TV Lazard Penguin 25% 14% IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 1 Introduction 09 people In 2010, in addition to my Pearson responsibilities, Itook on a new role as deputy chairman of the Your board is keenly aware that a creative business like Financial Reporting Council, the UKs independent Pearson is acutely dependent on its internal talent regulator responsible for promoting high quality not just of a small group of senior directors, but ofa corporate governance and reporting.
In that capacity wide pool of writers, editors, educators, publishers, Ihave become even more aware of the desire of technologists, marketers and sales experts.
shareholders, large and small, to understand how Each year we devote one full board meeting to talent, boards are spending their time and how they are succession planning and organisational structure.
ensuring that key decisions around investment, Welook in detail at the 20 most senior jobs in performance and compensation are closely connected Pearson, ensuring that there are several credible to strategy.
candidates for each role, that they are well known by I do hope that this report helps provide you with that the board and that we have development plans in place understanding in relation to Pearson.
We have a clear to round out their experience and skills and to give strategy, a focused board, a talented team and a proud them every possible chance of progressing their record of performance.
We will be straining every careers at Pearson.
sinew to continue to build on all those strengths In addition, in 2010 the board reviewed the goals and in2011.
plans of Pearsons new director for people, Robin If you have any questions, I invite you to send them to Baliszewski.
And the remuneration committee, as us via our website at www.
com: or to join us always, played the pivotal role in setting overall in person at our annual shareholders meeting.
compensation policy, senior executive reward and incentive targets across the company aligned to our strategy and performance.
You can read the full report of our remuneration committee from page 63. glen moreno chairman 10 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 pearsons strategy: marjorie scardino, chief executive Our world remained unsettled through the year weve as we report on 2010, just left.
In much of the developed world it was marked by deep budget deficits, severe public spending cuts we look back on and harsh unemployment.
Though official statistics about economic progress started to look promising enough to deserve the term recovery toward the end another successful of the year, it doesnt yet feel like much of a rising tide to businesses or families now facing cuts in public result for ourwork and services, lower property values, higher taxes and demanding debts.
We were fortunate in Pearson, though.
As we look back on that year, we look back on another successful result for our work and for our shareholders.
Weshowed once again that were collectively capable of swimming against the current, of being a company that has the people and purpose and agility to reach our goals even when the economic flow is against us.
And we turned in another set of exceptional results.
It was also, once again, a very good year for every single part of Pearson.
Every one of our companies has grown well, pulled further ahead of its competitors and made progress on the long-term shift to the digital and international expansion that weve been pushing for.
Idont need to rehearse the figures: you can read allabout them on these pages and elsewhere in marjorie scardino chief executive thisreport.
