ChAirmAns stAtement Another excellent year with significant achievements despite difficult economic conditions DIVIDEND KEN HARVEY The Board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend per share CHAIRmAN of 15.60p, a 9.5% increase on last years final dividend.
This represents PENNON GROUP PLC a full year dividend of 22.55p which is an increase of 7.4% compared with 2008 09 reflecting RPI of 4.4% to March 2010.
We have therefore delivered the policy to increase dividends from 2005 06 by 3% per annum above inflation.
Following the setting of price limits for South West Water by Ofwat for BUSINESS OVERVIEW delivery of the K5 2010-2015 regulatory contract and the expectation am pleased to say that it has been another excellent year for Pennon that Viridor will continue to deliver strong long-term growth, the Group with significant achievements by both businesses, despite Board has reviewed its dividend policy and is pleased to announce that Id ifficult economic conditions.
it intends to enhance its progressive dividend policy to 4% per annum real increases from 2010 11 to at least until the end of 2014 15.
South West Water has delivered strong operational results and has outperformed the operating cost efficiency and financing targets set by Dividends have increased over the last five years as follows: Ofwat for the K4 period 2005-2010.
Viridor has once again delivered a very strong financial performance.
The Greater Manchester Waste PFI contract, the Lakeside Energy from Waste EfW project and the latest acquisitions are further major steps DIVIDENDS PER ORDINARY SHARE forward in the successful evolution of Viridor.
The continuing prudent approach to financing in the Group, combined 24 with a dedicated Board, management and staff, has also significantly KPi contributed to our success.
22 20 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Group revenue increased by 11.6% to 1,068.9 million, exceeding 18 1 billion for the first time.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 16 14.2% to 189.1 million and underlying earnings per share increased by 9.2% to 41.6p.
The Group also has a strong liquidity and funding position.
14 12 South West Waters Regulatory Capital Value RCV grew by 31% over the K4 2005-2010 period to 2.6 billion by March 2010, the 10 highest percentage increase for any quoted UK water company.
Viridors underlying profit before tax was up by 34.8%, building on the growth achieved by the company over the last eight years.
Financial year Underlying measures are defined in the Pennon Group financial performance section on page 5 P. 2 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW Pence 17.20 2005 06 18.55 2006 07 2007 08 19.81 2008 09 21.00 2009 10 22.55 BUSINESS PERFORmANCE HEALTH & SAFETY OUR PEOPLE South West Water increased its revenue in Ensuring the health and safety of all our We fully recognise that the Groups success the year by 2.9% and profit before tax was employees continues to be central to our is due to the quality of the staff and their up by 8.7%.
The operating cost efficiency ethos as a responsible Group.
The Corporate support and commitment.
target set by Ofwat for K4 was achieved in Responsibility Committee and the Board 2008 09, ahead of schedule.
The company pay particular attention to ensuring that we I once again express my personal thanks to all has accepted Ofwats Final Determination for continually strive to improve occupational members of staff for their continuing dedication the setting of price limits for the K5 period.
We are and commitment particularly as we continue to Notwithstanding the lower returns envisaged therefore very disappointed to report that implement further efficiences and develop new by Ofwats Final Determination and the last year our recorded number of incidents in systems and processes to strengthen further impact of current economic conditions which Viridor increased.
Where incidents do occur governance across the Group.
represent a very tough challenge for South they are fully investigated and every effort is West Water, the company is determined to made to ensure that they cannot be repeated In addition I am extremely grateful to achieve additional efficiencies despite having through, in particular, raising the level of my Board colleagues for their support already delivered substantial efficiencies over training and support available to staff and and significant contributions to another the last two decades.
reinforcing strong positive attitudes to health successful year.
and safety at all levels in the Group.
Viridor has yet again delivered a strong OUTLOOK financial performance in difficult market GOVERNANCE Notwithstanding the lower returns envisaged conditions with revenue up by 18.7% and We operate businesses which can and do by Ofwats Final Determination and the profit before tax up by 34.8%.
The company have a material impact on the environment.
impact of current economic conditions, the expects to continue to deliver long-term We believe that a responsible approach to Group remains well positioned to continue growth through successfully leading the way environmental, social and governance ESG to deliver shareholder value and meet future in exploiting opportunities arising from the matters and our sustainable practices not challenges.
South West Water is well placed Governments targets for recycling, landfill only benefit the communities in which we to achieve Ofwats efficiency targets and diversion and renewable energy.
operate, but also enable our businesses to be outperform its financing cost assumptions for more successful.
This year we have set out K5.
Viridor expects to continue to deliver Plastics, waste electrical and electronic in full in this Annual Report our Corporate strong long-term growth through successfully equipment WEEE and paper processing Responsibility Report which demonstrates our leading the way in exploiting opportunities in particular are a growing part of Viridors commitment to ESG and the improvements arising from the Governments landfill recycling business.
These recycling activities we have made in protecting the environment, diversion, recycling and renewable energy were enhanced in the year with two carbon capture, energy savings and resource targets.
This anticipated success has enabled acquisitions: Intercontinental Recycling Limited recovery which all contribute to a more the Board to announce an enhanced dividend which processes plastics into pellet or flake sustainable future for everyone.
We also take policy for the next five years.
form and London Recycling Limited with into account the views of our shareholders and WEEE and paper processing facilities.
major institutional groups on what they regard I am confident that we have the right strategy to be the key governance issues in reviewing in place for the Group to succeed and that I am also pleased to say that the Greater annually our practices, policies and procedures.
this strategy together with the management Manchester PFI waste and renewables This ensures that we continue to have a strong skills in the Group will steer us through to a contract and another major scheme, and appropriately experienced Board with successful future.
the Lakeside EfW plant joint venture at governance structures in place which can Colnbrook, near Heathrow, are now successfully respond to the challenges we face operational and trading profitably.
in the best interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ken Harvey, Chairman Pennon Group Plc, 24 June 2010 Underlying profit before tax up 14.2% to 189.1 million Full year dividend up 7.4% to 22.55 p PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 | P. 3
