16 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Chairmans statement 2010 has been another very successful year for Petrofac.
Our track record for delivery, our strategic focus on areas of sustained demand, our increasing capabilities and scale and our strong relationships have again contributed to record results.
Revenue increased by 19% to US$4,354 million and net profits rose by 58% to US$557.8 million.
Business review 17 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Chairmans statement The global marketplace Supporting our customers Energy Developments and Production These results were achieved despite We have continued our policy of maintaining Solutions and a former BP board director.
a conservative balance sheet, with strong Roxanne Decyk, whose long executive career Our performance was assisted by a healthy cash reserves and minimal debt.
We believe included 11 years with The Royal Dutch Shell demand for energy during the year, from both that such financial strength acts to reassure Group, has recently joined the Board as established and developing economies.
The fact customers that we are here for the long-term.
Norman Murray, that many of our customers are national oil chairman of Cairn Energy PLC and co-founder Our long-term contribution to customers is companies, which have continued to press on and former chairman of Morgan Grenfell also apparent in our fundamental commitment with capital investment, was also beneficial in Private Equity Limited has also joined our to employing as many local people on our 2010.
Notwithstanding, it is important to remain Board and, subject to shareholder approval, projects as we can.
In addition, our ability very aware of the continuing weakness in the will succeed me as Chairman following the to provide training programmes and facilities world economy.
The threat of tightening trade conclusion of the AGM on 13 May.
In line help our customers to create national barriers and of escalating tensions in volatile with Petrofacs rotation policy, I am stepping workforces, with indigenous workers regions are potential risks to economic growth.
down after six fascinating and highly enjoyable being equipped for a lifetimes employment, years.
I have no doubt that Andy, Norman and The tragic explosion on the Deepwater Horizon providing economic benefit to individuals Roxanne will each make a significant individual drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico last April and their wider communities.
contribution to the Board and I wish them well.
underlined the risks in our industry.
The Building a sustainable business resulting spill from the Macondo well and its In another change, Kjell Almskog will also retire When a company grows as fast as Petrofac environmental, commercial and political impacts from the Petrofac Board this year.
I would like has, it is vital that internal processes and are a reminder of the challenges we face every to thank Kjell for his significant contribution systems develop accordingly.
In 2010 we day and the constant need for vigilance.
This during his six years on our Board, most took further steps to ensure that our business event has changed perceptions of our industry recently as Senior Independent Director.
maintains the efficiency of its core systems.
and the way it operates, highlighting the Our people importance of the relationship between oil To enable Petrofac to continue to be led and In my time with Petrofac the business has companies and the contracting industry.
staffed by able and experienced men and changed and grown enormously.
What has not women, we strengthened our recruitment, Our progress in 2010 changed has been the commitment, diligence development and succession planning Key milestones demonstrated the value of our and ownership displayed by our men and processes across the business.
clear and consistent strategy during the year.
Such attributes may be due to the fact Major new business awards including a that, with more than 30% of employees being Working in an exacting industry, in challenging US$600 million gas sweetening facilities shareholders or participants in share schemes, conditions and geographies on increasingly contract for Qatar Petroleum and two projects many do literally own the business.
I would complex projects, taking risk is an integral for the Kuwait Oil Company, worth a total like to pay heartfelt tribute to our people and to part of what we do.
To manage such risk of US$830 million indicated the strength the professional way they deliver high quality effectively, in 2010, Petrofacs Board Risk of our service offering.
solutions to our customers in some of the most Committee again deepened its oversight role challenging locations in the world.
They have while the wider business further embedded Other contracts fulfilled long-held strategic created an absolutely exceptional firm.
its risk management procedures and systems.
Our contract with Petrom in Romania, covering the Ticleni oilfield and its satellite Outlook Dividends fields, for example, marked the first production 2010 has been an exceptional year for us, The Company proposes a final dividend of enhancement services contract for our with a record intake of new orders, which gives 30.00 cents per ordinary share for the year Production Solutions business, which has been us outstanding revenue visibility and brings ended 31 December 2010 2009: 25.10 cents, assessing such opportunities for some time.
exciting opportunities for us to develop our which, if approved, will be paid on 20 May capability and to deliver it into new markets.
2011 to eligible shareholders on the register During the year we made important step-outs at 26 April 2011.
Shareholders who have not into new markets.
We began working on With this strong financial underpinning, our elected before 4 March 2011 to receive a new contract marking our entry into Iraq differentiated and competitive offering and dividends in US Dollars will receive a Sterling and completed the conversion of the second our proven excellence in project execution, equivalent of 18.42 pence per ordinary share.
phase of the US$3.4 billion contract for we are confident that we will continue to Together with the interim dividend of 13.80 the South Yoloten field in Turkmenistan.
deliver superior value for our customers and cents 2009: 10.70 cents, equivalent to 8.91 sector-leading returns for our shareholders.
pence, this gives a total dividend for the year New investments supported our strategic of 43.80 cents per ordinary share 2009: 35.80 ambitions.
Our alliance with Seven Energy, I thank our shareholders, customers and cents, an increase of 22.3%.
a leading Nigerian production and development suppliers for their support in 2010 and for my company, gives us the opportunity to develop entire time as Chairman.
I am confident that Our Board a local presence in Nigeria.
Our commitment Petrofac will continue to deliver outstanding Our customers and employees come from to extending our service offering saw us buy performance in the years ahead.
numerous geographies and cultures: it is two UK businesses in renewable energy essential that our Board reflects that diversity.
alongside two other complementary In 2010, two new non-executive directors, acquisitions in the year.
Thomas Thune Andersen and Stefano Cao, brought valuable fresh experience and ideas to The successful demerging of our UK our Board.
Having directors with a broad range Continental Shelf assets to a new company, of experiences and perspectives enables us to EnQuest PLC, emphasised the validity of our Rodney Chase learn from each other and grow.
This year, we Energy Developments business build and Chairman complemented that learning with an external harvest strategy.
The demerger was of Board evaluation.
One of the outcomes of this significant commercial benefit to Petrofac useful exercise was a commitment to a greater shareholders, who at the time of demerger focus on strategy: consequently, the time received one EnQuest share for every devoted to strategic discussion has doubled.
Petrofac share owned, representing 45% The necessary reinvigoration of the Board has ownership of EnQuest PLC at the time of continued in 2011, with the addition of Andy its initial public offering.
Inglis, recently appointed Chief Executive of
