Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Chairmans Statement Peter Hambro 2010 marked a transitional phase for the Group: a year of both challenges and achievements, as it evolves into a world-class multi-mine operator.
2010 in perspective We ended the year with total gold production of 506,800oz, a 4% increase on 2009.
The growth in production is partly attributable to increased capacity at Pioneer and the launch of our latest project, Malomir.
Together with Pokrovskiy and Omchak, these assets formed the core of Petropavlovsks producing gold mining operations in 2010.
Total gold revenue advanced to US$557.9 million, a 31% increase on 2009, supported by a continued strong momentum in the gold price.
Whilst the full year production figure is significantly lower than the target we initially set, it is still another consecutive annual production increase.
In April 2010, we upgraded the processing capacity at our flagship mine, Pioneer, with the addition of a third production line, increasing the throughput capacity of the plant to 420,000 tonnes per month.
As a result, Pioneer is now a significant bulk-tonnage operation.
In August 2010, our Malomir mine and plant were launched, with the new plant achieving a capacity of 55,000 tonnes per month shortly after commissioning.
As an extensive expansion programme progressed through 2010, Petropavlovsk tackled a number of operational challenges.
At Pokrovskiy, stabilisation of the southern pit wall impacted, albeit not significantly, 3 on our production capability.
Nevertheless, during 2010, 6.2 million m of material was moved at the site up 114% on 2009, 1.7 million tonnes of ore were mined down 10% on 2009 as Pokrovskiy is a maturing asset and 1.7 million tonnes were milled down 1% on 2009.
3 Delays in the delivery of key 15m excavator equipment in combination with adverse weather, including extreme cold and subsequent flooding at the Pioneer mine, caused disruption to the mining schedule.
This meant that the increased capacity of the plant was used to process lower grades of ore than scheduled, resulting in reduced production for the year.
Nonetheless, it is worth remembering that the underlying gold deposits are still there to be excavated and sold to the market, with the price increasing by 29% in the last year.
6 7 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 2010 is Petropavlovsks 8th consecutive year of production growth 506,800oz Steps taken during 2010 to overcome operational challenges 2010 attributable gold production Prospective new licences acquired Gold price reaches new nominal highs, closing at US$1,406 in 2010 Petropavlovsks share price appreciated 11.5% during 2010 28% gold production CAGR of 28% 2002 2010 Paying a dividend, in our view, is the hallmark of a strong and confident Board changes, management restructuring business.
We are confident that the long term fundamentals of the and new committees Group are robust and we wish to reward shareholders as the business Following a strategic review, I am pleased to welcome the appointment prospers and develops, striking a balance between returning profit to of three experienced executives to the Board.
Dr. Alfiya Alya shareholders and reinvesting capital back into the business.
I am Samokhvalova joined as Strategic Director, Mr. Andrey Maruta as pleased that the Board paid an interim dividend of 0.03 per share Finance Director, Russia, and Mr. Martin Smith as Technical Director.
and resolved to recommend a final dividend of 0.07 per share.
Each of these individuals brings with them a deep understanding of the Company and its operations.
The Board looks forward to Our people drawing on their valuable expertise and detailed knowledge in Human capital is the most important aspect of every successful helping Petropavlovsk to achieve its objectives as it continues in business.
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I wish to express my its evolution as a major gold producer.
I also wish to welcome gratitude to all the Groups employees, who continue to work with Dr. Graham Birch into his new role as Senior Independent tireless commitment and enthusiasm, driving our ambitions forward.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to record our special thanks to The road ahead Mr. Peter Hill-Wood, who will retire as a Non-Executive Director at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
He joined us in 2003 and his sound This years accomplishments have positioned the Group for its next common sense, enthusiasm, and encouragement have been of great phase of development and growth and we believe that our prospects assistance.
Being at various times, Chairman of the Audit Committee remain encouraging.
In particular, our investment in iron ore concentrate and Senior Non-Executive Director, was very different from his day job production, through IRC, gives us great confidence.
As we look to the as Chairman of Arsenal Football Club but, in spite of this, we have future and continue to execute our strategy, we will be guided by benefited hugely from his active participation and instinctive feel for the conservatism in our forecasts, greater consistency in our operations, right way of doing things.
We will miss him very much.
as well as ensuring contingency plans are in place and that investors continue to benefit from frequent and transparent communications.
The gold market Since Pavel and I founded this business in 1994, our vision has always The gold price reached new nominal highs in 2010.
Having started the been to build Russias Far East mining champion.
More than 2.7 million year at US$1,088, and with an intra day high of US$1,431 in December, ounces of gold later and as one of Russias largest gold producers, the precious metal closed the year at US$1,406, an increase of 29% our vision continues to stand strong.
The rise in the price of gold has been underpinned by the precious metals appeal as an alternative monetary asset, as a hedge against inflation, sovereign risk and weaker currencies and also as a store of value during times of uncertainty.
Aside from investment demand, gold also continued to benefit from purchases by central banks as well as renewed demand in the jewellery, industrial and retail sector.
Amidst fiscal imbalances and quantitative easing policies introduced Peter Hambro by central banks to stimulate economic recovery, there are reasons Chairman to consider that gold may find further momentum in 2011.
With this in mind, it is worth noting that, in real terms, the gold price is well below its all-time high of US$2,399 January 1980.
As an unhedged gold producer, Petropavlovsk is well positioned to take advantage of further strength in the gold price going forward.
Share price performance and dividend Petropavlovsks share price appreciated by 11.5% between 1 January and 31 December 2010, which the Board believes to be a fair performance given the operational challenges we tackled.
However, our share price is subject to market risks and past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
