Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Chairmans statement An overview of our approach to corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Awards and recognition received in 2010: Introduction techMARK Company of the Year ARM performed strongly in 2010, reflecting both the EETimes ACE Company of the Year recovery in the overall semiconductor industry following the National Microelectronics Institute Excellence Awards for Low Power recession in the prior year and successful execution of our Design and Services to Training and Education business plan.
Once again, ARM outperformed the industry CRF Institute Award as one of Britains Top Employers in 2010 and we are well positioned to continue to gain market Inclusion in the NASDAQ OMX CRD Global Sustainability 100 Index share.
It is generally expected that, after a strong recovery in 2010, the semiconductor industry will see more typical growth levels in 2011.
We were pleased to rejoin the FTSE 100 on 8 February 2010 and to maintain our position in this index.
In 2010, our customers reported that they deployed the Groups processor designs in just over six billion chips, across an ever increasing range of products.
This further demonstrates that ARM is a leader not only in processor designs for mobile computers and smartphones, but also for consumer electronics and embedded devices, such as computing, digital TV, microcontrollers, networking, smartcard and solid-state drives.
ARMs board and executive team recognise that continued success has been achieved through the strength and depth of our stakeholder relationships.
The corporate governance framework and processes we have in place enable us to manage the Company effectively and to demonstrate transparent, consistent and effective governance so that we remain accountable to our shareholders, employees, Partners, suppliers and the local communities we support and interact with.
Directors and succession planning During 2010 the nomination committee undertook an exercise to refresh the non-executive director representation on the board and we were very pleased to announce that Janice Roberts and Larry Hirst joined the board on 25 January 2011 and Andy Green joined the board on 25 February 2011.
The nomination committee worked Doug Dunn, Chairman 38 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Gender split board Gender split workforce Approximate allocation of board agenda time in 2010 Male 86% Male 83% Strategy and risk 56% Female 14% Female 17% Business updates and financial reporting 24% Governance 12% Division and function updates 8% ARM highly values corporate governance and this is with external advisers, Russell Reynolds, in connection with reflected in our governance principles, policies and these appointments, which bring the board back into the practices and our everyday working processes.
We were very sorry to lose the respected approach is backed by continuous improvement based counsel and incisive contribution of Jeremy Scudamore, on measurement against internal objectives, external who retired for health reasons on 31 January 2011, and audits and benchmarking and a rigorous approach to risk we thank him and wish him well for the future.
During 2010, the Group complied with the We mentioned in the 2009 Annual Report that, as part of Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008, with the our succession plans, John Scarisbrick will be retiring from two minor exceptions noted in the Corporate Governance the board at the Annual General Meeting in 2011, having Report.
We note the provisions of the UK Corporate served for more than nine years.
The membership of all board Governance Code 2010 which is applicable for accounting committees underwent a full review in December 2010 and periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
To the extent John stepped down from the remuneration committee on that the Group does not already comply with this and, as 16 December 2010 to make way for the new appointees.
new regulations and guidance are published, the Group The board reflects a balance between financial, sector will aim to comply fully with any changes and best practice specific and general business skills, with a highly principles within a reasonable timescale.
experienced international team leading the business in The Group continued to comply with the requirements both executive and non-executive roles.
The board played of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US.
an important role in guiding ARM through the challenging economic environment in 2010, providing clear strategic The boards core activities include: direction and ensuring that the Groups performance and providing leadership for the Group: standards of conduct remained at expected levels.
active engagement in developing the Groups The roles of the current members of the board are set out long-term strategy: in the biographies section on pages 41 to 43. monitoring executive actions, standards of conduct, Diversity performance against business plans and budgets and ensuring that the necessary financial and human The board now comprises 12 men 86% and two women resources are in place for it to meet its objectives: 14%.
The workforce as a whole is made up of 83% men and 17% women 2009: 82% men and 18% women.
obtaining assurance that material risks to the Group are This is broadly in line with the gender split of engineering identified and appropriate systems of risk management graduates in the UK in 2010 of 90% men and 10% women.
and control exist to mitigate such risks and defining the Groups appetite for risk: and Corporate governance framework and role of the board board and executive management succession.
The Groups corporate governance framework is built All directors and employees are required to act fairly, around three pillars: honestly and with integrity and they are required to organisation and structure: demonstrate that they have read and understand our the internal control framework: and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, a copy of which independent assurance.
is published on the corporate website at www.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 39 Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically Our technology allows our Partners to develop smarter reserved for its decision, which includes the approval of digital electronic products that can measure, manage major business issues, policies, operating budgets and and control the environmental performance of consumer capital expenditure.
It is also responsible for sanctioning electronics and IT equipment, improving performance and unusual commercial arrangements such as atypical licence reducing the carbon footprint for some of the products that agreements and investments.
Authority is delegated to we all use, every day.
various committees that are constituted within written Our commitment to the environment extends beyond the terms of reference and chaired by independent nonenergy efficiency and power saving that ARM technologyexecutive directors where required by the Combined based chips help to achieve.
In 2010 ARM worked with the Code on Corporate Governance Code 2008.
The American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy ACEEE Chairman has primary responsibility for running the to help found its intelligent efficiency advisory board, which board and the Chief Executive Officer has executive is made up of a group of industry representatives who help responsibilities for the operations and results of the Group to advance the research agenda and associated policy and for making proposals to the board in relation to the debate on the importance of IT in achieving the step change strategic development of the Group.
There are clear and needed in energy efficiency.
In our UK offices, where ARM documented divisions of accountability and responsibility procures its own energy, supplies are from renewable for the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
sources and a greener energy procurement policy is being Remuneration extended to our other offices where possible.
ARM is improving its strategy for low carbon business operation ARM maintained its conservative approach to remuneration and during 2010 we set goals of: in 2010, in line with market uncertainty around the timing 30% emission reduction in tons of CO emission per 2 and scope of the global economic recovery.
We continued employee by 2020: and to be able to retain and recruit the talented people who are critical to the continued success of our business.
15% energy use reduction measured in KW hours per employee by 2020.
Despite the tough market conditions the minimum targets, established three years ago under the Long Term Incentive We will be monitoring and reporting on our performance Plan, were exceeded and our teams have been rewarded against these goals annually.
Details are set out in full in the ARM continued its support for science and IT-related remuneration report.
The board is not proposing any new education through the Engineering Education Scheme, remuneration schemes or any changes to the Long Term Young Engineers and Young Enterprise, the Cambridge Incentive Plan in 2011.
It is intended that the maximum University Entrepreneurs, University of Texas College of bonus payable under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Communication, Cambridge University Engineering Society to the executive team will increase from 125% of base and primary educational establishments.
salary to 150% of base salary for 2011 and beyond.
This More details about our approach to corporate responsibility change follows a review of executive remuneration by are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on Towers Watson which was undertaken during 2010 and page 52. which included an analysis of remuneration packages in 2010 marks ARMs 20th anniversary comparable companies.
The remuneration committee has approved this change, which will bring the variable element ARM celebrated its 20th anniversary in November 2010. of executive pay more in line with market practice among As a business recognised for its innovation and world our peers.
More detail on executive remuneration is set out class intellectual property, ARM has been built around the in the remuneration report.
highest quality people in the sector.
As we enter our 21st Corporate responsibility year as leader in our market, I would like to thank the teams worldwide who have contributed to making ARM a great In 2010, ARMs commitment to environmental, social and success story.
governance issues was recognised by the NASDAQ OMX Our stakeholders and Partners will continue to benefit CRD Global Sustainability 100 Index which ranked ARM from our open, clear and consistent approach in 2011 and among the top 100 companies in the world for sustainability.
beyond as we expand into our targeted market segments More than 3,000 global companies were evaluated on and position ARM for the next 20 years.
200 complex and diverse performance metrics in order to establish individual, quantitative ratings of sustainability.
ARM has further strengthened its commitment to leadership in corporate responsibility by joining the United Nations Global Compact and Caring for Climate initiatives and through forming a new partnership with the International Business Leaders Forum to explore how technology can Doug Dunn help to develop a low-carbon economy and improve Chairman livelihoods in developing countries.
40 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
