2 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman In 2010 we saw challenges in global economies that have This year saw many businesses change their strategies been unparalleled in recent times: challenges that in turn as they tried to adapt to the difficult economic climate.
affected the markets in which Premier Farnell operates.
However, the assumptions which underpin our strategy Yet the resilience of our business has become more continued to be validated, despite the economic climate.
apparent during these times of uncertainty as the shift in During the year sales to the Electronic Design Engineering market conditions served to further validate our strategy.
EDE sector significantly outperformed sales to the In a year of accelerated change for both our business and Maintenance, Repair and Operations MRO sector, the the wider electronics industry we have continued to invest web has remained our customers channel of choice and in our future and have remained focused on driving our the success of our businesses in the emerging markets business forwards.
These decisions, along with many of China, India and Eastern Europe has continued, with others we have taken over the course of 2010 were sales growing strongly in each of these regions intended to increase value for our shareholders.
The uncertainty in world economies continued to affect our performance for much of the year and our full year sales declined 9.7% compared to last year.
However, We have continued to invest in our future towards the end of the year our trading conditions began to improve and when we reported our third quarter results and have remained focused on driving our in December we became the first electronics distributor business forwards.
globally to externally report revenue growth.
The assumptions on which we based our strategy three years ago and our continued execution have delivered The benefit of the cost actions we have taken in the a stable full year gross margin of 39.8% and ensured current year will deliver further benefit to our business in that our profitability remained strong.
After considering this, together with both the level 12 months we will continue to drive our performance of our earnings and the Groups cash requirements the forward as we focus on reaching the level of sales we Board has recommended a final dividend of 5.2 pence saw prior to entering the downturn and growing our per share, which brings the full year dividend to 9.4 pence, business profitably.
Our financial position remains robust, with good liquidity and strong free cash flow.
In addition to our 150 million syndicate bank facilities, which expire in January 2013, in the first quarter of the year we were able to announce the agreement of a further 20 million bank facility which expires in May 2012.
Our facilities now total 170 million and the headroom on our new and existing bank borrowings, at the end of the year, was 82 million.
This headroom, combined with our net cash position of 25 million, provides a good level of operational and financial flexibility and the Group expects that the combination of free cash flow, existing cash resources and available bank facilities will enable it to meet the repayment of the US$66 million Senior Notes which become due in June 2010.
As we considered the evolution of our business for the next three years, the second half of the year saw the completion of a review of our business strategy.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3 Chairmans Statement The review revealed that the key strategic pillars we have it well to capitalise on market opportunities that arise as focused on over the past three years are just as relevant the recovery takes place.
In particular they have helped today and will still be very much at the core of our future.
management balance cost reductions with investing for However, the world in which we live and work has the future.
As we look to the year ahead we shall be changed substantially since 2006 and as the pervasion seeking to recruit a new Non-Executive Director who of the web and technology advances we will evolve our will strengthen the Boards knowledge and experience proposition.
Our acquisition of CadSoft in September was in the areas of eCommerce and information services in our first step towards building on the strong foundations view of the importance of these to our strategy.
of our strategy as we develop new and unique services that are aligned to both the needs and the overarching desires of our stakeholders.
Harriet Green discusses the Groups evolution over the next three years in her Our acquisition of CadSoft in September interview with Andrew Cave, Business interviewer at was our first step towards building on the the Sunday Telegraph, on pages 4 to 9. strong foundations of our strategy.
We remain committed to communicating our performance accurately with our all of our business partners and to this end our Key Performance Indicators KPIs are set out on pages 14 and 15 of this report.
This year we have Throughout the year our 4,100 employees have displayed extended our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR a truly professional level of commitment and conviction commitments and, to ensure we make the reporting of towards the business transformation.
They have what we do easily accessible, clear and consistent with sacrificed much in a year with no merit pay awards and our CSR principles, we have produced a comprehensive furloughs, yet our people have remained determined and CSR report which can be accessed online at www.
focused on their own targets and goals, epitomising our premierfarnell.
The full report high performance culture.
With effect from the end of the is supported by a summarised CSR report on pages Groups AGM on 15 June 2010, William Korb will retire 58 to 63. from the Board of Directors.
On behalf of our organisation We recognise the importance that stakeholders place I would like to thank William for the wise council, valuable on the quality of our corporate governance and the way guidance and continued support he has provided to in which we implement the principles of the Combined Premier Farnell throughout his tenure.
Code on Corporate Governance is described in detail I cannot predict what the future holds for global in our Corporate Governance Report on pages 67 to 73. economies, but with tight cost and cash control and The Board has also considered carefully the principles strong leadership, I believe that we are well positioned of the Combined Code in respect of its role and to overcome new challenges and capitalise on the effectiveness, both as they appear in the current code growth opportunities within our markets.
Strategically and under the proposed revisions.
the coming year marks the start of the next phase of our As Chairman of the Board, I am accountable for its transformation, bringing new focuses that both strengthen effective leadership.
In recognition of this, the Board and build on our position within the electronics industry.
has agreed that I will now stand for re-election by The Board remains confident in investing for our future shareholders annually, commencing with the Annual as we look to continue to enhance our proposition to General Meeting AGM of the Company to be held on significantly increase shareholder value and provide 15 June 2010. new and exciting opportunities for our employees, customers and suppliers The Non-Executive Directors have a wide range of business experience which spans the major economic downturns and recoveries over the past three decades.
This has proved invaluable in helping to steer our Sir Peter Gershon organisation through the current recession and position Chairman
