Chairmans statement Driving forward with brand growth.
Ronnie Bell Chairman Dear Shareholders This is my first report to shareholders since taking over as Chairman Whilst both the Grocery and Hovis divisions made progress in 2010, in October 2010 and I would like to start with a few first impressions.
Brookes Avana had a very difficult year suffering a 15m fall in trading profit largely as a result of increased commodity costs and My early observation is that Premier Foods has a number of strong lower prices.
platforms for growth: In particular, I am pleased to report that through improved it has a tremendous stable of leading brands with consumer management of working capital we have increased recurring cash franchises developed in many cases by decades of investment.
generation by 124m exceeding our target of 100m.
These brands account for over two thirds of the Companys revenues and provide an excellent base for long term business Derisking the Groups balance sheet growth: It is clear that in the current economic climate, investors have the business has significant scale and excellent operational continued to be concerned by companies with a high level capabilities with generally well invested assets: and of leverage.
a strong and capable management team.
A great deal of progress has been made by the Company in 2010 I have spent the last few months getting to know the Company, to reduce balance sheet concerns.
In October we successfully its brands, facilities and people.
I have been impressed with the restructured the Groups swap portfolio significantly reducing the capability and commitment of employees at all levels of the Group.
Net debt at the year end has reduced by There is a strong culture of improvement and willingness to adapt 103m to 1,261m and in addition we have obtained a credit rating quickly to the changing demands of the business.
which will allow us to diversify our sources of funding.
Progress in 2010 Disposals During the year the Group set out twin strategic priorities: During the year we assessed our portfolio and took steps to reduce our dependence on some parts of our non-branded portfolio which an on-going strategy focused on branded growth: and were fide-prioritised.
We have also undertaken a review of our a robust financial plan to reduce the Groups debt.
business to assess whether there was the potential for the disposal of non-strategic businesses which could accelerate our leverage I am fully supportive of this approach and my immediate priority is to reduction.
ensure rapid progress against delivery on both fronts.
In January 2011 we announced we had reached agreement with the It is clear that we experienced very challenging trading conditions private equity business, Exponent Private Equity and Intermediate in 2010, particularly in the second half of the year.
Market growth Capital Group Exponent, to sell our Meat-free business which has been subdued as a result of constrained consumer spending manufactures and sells products under the Quorn and Cauldron and increased promotional activity during this period of ongoing brands for 205m.
This disposal was approved by shareholders on economic uncertainty.
3 March and successfully completed on 7 March 2011.
However, it is important to recognise that despite this, we have been In addition in February 2011, we announced we had reached able to make progress on our strategy of delivering branded volume agreement with food producer Princes for the sale of our canned growth ahead of the market.
While total sales revenue was down grocery operations in East Anglia for 182m.
We expect the slightly in line with the market, branded sales were up 3.1% in terms disposal, which is subject to a number of clearances, to complete of volume.
Drive brands in particular made significant progress, later in 2011. gaining market share in a number of areas.
02 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.
indd 2 09 03 2011 11:27:14 Our business We will increase our focus on innovation, brand building and consumer marketing to deliver branded sales growth.
The Board believes that these disposals are in the best interests This new organisational structure is an important step in enabling of both the Company and shareholders as the net proceeds of the business to prioritise resources and maximise the return from its the sale of around 370m will be used to repay debt.
This is an brand portfolio.
The new structure will enable us to: important step both in significantly reducing the time it takes to reach our target debt level and also in allowing management to manage all brands together rather than solely by division: focus more single mindedly on our key brands within the Grocery establish a single Group marketing function to facilitate the and Hovis businesses.
sharing of consumer insight and aid prioritisation of resources: concentrate more resources behind Drive and Core brands: and Board changes manage the Defend brands and own label businesses As referred to above, I joined as Chairman with effect from separately to ensure their contribution is maximised.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank David for his significant contribution Premier Foods has a good track record of developing innovation to the Group since its flotation in 2004.
At the same time as my and new products which reflect changing consumer trends and appointment Charles Miller Smith became Deputy Chairman and habits.
We believe this new structure and increased investment he has been working closely with me on the strategic development will help us to grow the amount of branded sales from new and of the business.
improved products within Grocery as the benefits of our innovation pipeline start to come through.
At the forthcoming AGM in April, David Felwick will be stepping down as a non-executive director.
I would like to take this With the current tough general economic environment combining opportunity to thank David for the help and support he has provided with strong pressure from rising commodity prices, 2011 will remain to the Company both as Senior independent director and, until difficult from a consumer confidence and trading perspective.
2009, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Following his retirement David Beever will take up the appointment of Senior However, as demonstrated in 2010, the Group remains committed independent director.
to the pursuit of share growth behind our strong stable of brands across our major markets.
Strong marketing programmes and I am also very pleased to announce the appointment of David Wild, increased product innovation will support our share growth Chief Executive of Halfords plc, as a new non-executive director with initiatives.
At the same time the Group will continue to leverage cost effect from 7 March 2011.
Davids background within the grocery release from its efficiency savings programmes to support gross and retail industry will be valuable to the Company as we continue margin achievement.
Our improving debt and strengthening balance to develop our strategy.
sheet position will allow us to diversify sources of funding.
Overall we are confident that we can continue to make progress in 2011.
Focus for 2011 We have made significant strides in achieving a capital structure which we believe will be more attractive to investors and hope to make further progress in this over the course of the year.
With balance sheet issues largely addressed, our focus for 2011 will be Ronnie Bell on branded sales growth.
Chairman In order to achieve this I believe it is also important that we increase our focus on innovation, brand building and consumer marketing.
To this end we have now aligned our organisational structure to combine the management of our Drive and Core brands and plan to put the necessary investment behind accelerating growth.
