Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2 Chairmans Statement Our business environment The prospects of recovery in the world economy, led by stronger energy demand in Asia, pushed oil and gas prices higher during the course of 2010.
In response to the recession, governments around the world maintained interest rates at historically low levels providing a favourable financing environment for companies with access to the debt capital markets.
Though there are concerns about future inflation, the oil industry benefitted during 2010 from a period of comparative cost stability.
Against this positive economic background, the industry was reminded of the inherent dangers it faces as the task of finding large quantities of oil and gas becomes more complex.
Preservation of our natural environment relies on strict adherence to safety standards.
Politically, there are considerable uncertainties in a number of countries in which we are seeking to grow.
This instability is mitigated by our spread of activities around the world and we expect our industry to continue to address these challenges in all its operations.
Premiers performance 2010 was a strong year for Premier resulting in considerable added value for its shareholders.
Rising oil and gas prices, combined with stable production, generated record revenues and profits for the group.
At the same time, great progress in our development projects and success in our North Sea exploration programme validated our growth targets and ambitions.
We expect to see first production from our three most advanced oil and gas developments within the next 12 months.
Further forward, we can see a clear path to attaining 100,000 boepd of production by 2014.
We continue to have good access to the debt capital markets to finance our investments and, from our rising cash flows, we are able to fund a growing exploration programme.
As a result, we are confident of not just replacing reserves but adding to our resource base which will form the basis for future growth beyond 2014.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 3 2010 was a strong year for Premier resulting in considerable added value for its shareholders.
Governance and the Board Your Board is fully committed to the principles of good corporate governance and responsibility.
As Premiers business has expanded, the need to become more sophisticated in the analysis of risk and performance has become more critical.
Assessment of risk factors, actions to mitigate risk and the measurement of performance against key indicators are updated and reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Premiers performance in the area of health, safety and environmental management has, over a number of years, significantly improved and the Board continues to focus on this critical area.
In line with the recommendations of the Combined Code, the Board used external advisors this year to review its effectiveness.
The conclusions of this review confirmed the Board to be an effective body.
Recommendations were made to enhance the performance and effectiveness of the Board and a process of continuous improvement is now under way.
I would like to pay particular thanks to Premiers senior independent director, John Orange, who after 14 years on the Board has decided not to seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting in May 2011.
Johns experience at Board level, his chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee and his detailed knowledge of the company have been invaluable.
I am particularly grateful for his advice and support on my arrival as Chairman during 2009.
I am pleased to report that the Board has asked Joe Darby, who joined the Premier Board in 2007, to take on the role of senior independent director.
In August 2010, we were pleased to report that Jane Hinkley, who has extensive experience at management and board level in both the shipping and oil and gas sectors, joined the Board.
Jane has also agreed to chair the Remuneration Committee after Johns retirement.
Shareholder returns Premiers share price increased by 76 per cent during 2010, providing shareholders with very significant returns on the rights issue proceeds subscribed in May 2009 to fund the Oilexco North Sea Ltd Oilexco acquisition.
Over the five-year period to 31 December 2010, Premiers share price, adjusting for the rights issue, has increased by 193 per cent.
I would like to pay tribute to the hard work and skills of our employees, partners and suppliers as we look forward together to continued growth and success.
