04 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chairmans statement Groups culture of an entrepreneurial spirit A clear focus on the strategy of underpinned by family values.
Anthony retained the family values of the founders selected markets, leading brands, a whilst allowing the Board to modernise these into the CANDO values which world class supply chain and a great serve the Group so well as we move into the future.
team of people has enabled continued I would also like to pay tribute to Graham sustainable profitable growth through Calder who retired on 31 March 2010 after 14 years with the Group joining as Finance a challenging trading environment.
Director and taking up the position of Deputy Chairman in 2006.
Grahams energy, drive and passion helped support the Board through an exciting period of growth.
Our thanks and best wishes go to them both for a long and happy In 2010, the Group delivered a strong retirement.
performance with profitable growth in all three regions of Africa, Asia and Europe.
I am delighted that I have joined a 12% Group with a culture of drive and Cash generation, even after 44.3 million innovation.
There is no doubt that many of capital investment in the year, has been The Board is pleased to of the countries in which we trade face strong and the closing net funds position challenging economic times as they of 86.5 million leaves the Group well recommend a 12% emerge from recession.
Attractive placed to pursue growth opportunities.
high quality and competitively priced products will be essential.
We look ahead The Board is therefore pleased to with cautious optimism and with an recommend a 12% dividend increase entrepreneurial spirit despite an uncertain maintaining excellent cover at 2.5 times.
consumer outlook in a number of markets.
It is with great pleasure that I have taken I would like to take this opportunity up the role, from 1 July 2010, of Nonto thank all the Groups staff for their executive Chairman.
This follows the continued hard work and dedication.
retirement, on 30 June, of Anthony Green Your skill and commitment will be who has served the Group for 35 years, essential in maintaining our progress and the last 17 of which in the capacity of I very much look forward to working with Chairman.
Anthonys contribution to the Group over Richard Harvey this time has been outstanding and as Non-executive Chairman Chairman he has guided the business and 27 July 2010 the Board to achieve profitable growth year after year.
During his tenure, the Group has diversified its geographical reach and expanded its brand portfolio whilst managing its balance sheet prudently which has served the Group well, particularly in recent economic times.
Anthony has epitomised the PZ Cussons Plc 05 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Our mission We are an entrepreneurial, international company, enhancing the lives of consumers in selected markets, with quality, value and innovation.
We are a profitable, growing business, working in selected geographies, we are flexible and dynamic.. We market and distribute leading brands, across a range of categories, that offer high value to our customers and consumers.. We have simple, transparent and common processes across our company.. We are trusted and respected everywhere we operate.. We live our values to the full.. We work together as a multi-cultural meritocracy where individual contribution is expected, appreciated, and rewarded.
