Directors Report Business Review Chairmans statement A tough year, given the economic, market and political uncertainty.
Mark Elliott Chairman Dear shareholder, In November, Leo Quinn joined the Board as Chief Executive Officer to lead the next stage of QinetiQs development.
Leo took over I am pleased to submit my first report as Chairman of QinetiQ, the reins from Graham Love who left the Group after eight years, having assumed the role in March this year, following the retirement having taken the organisation through privatisation.
Leo joined the of Sir John Chisholm.
Group having led fide La Rue plc, overseeing its transformation into a focused, market-leading security printer.
Prior to that, Leo was The last financial year was noteworthy for the Group given the responsible for a number of business turnarounds in both Europe changes in our markets on both sides of the Atlantic.
Leo has drive and energy, and a passion for operational fast-moving market developments has required a step change by the excellence and delivery.
I am pleased to report that in the short time business and particularly by our people.
I would like to pay testimony that he has been with the Group, he has already started the process to our employees who have taken on the challenge to adapt quickly of its transformation.
The Board is fully supportive of the priorities to the changing priorities of our customers.
set out by Leo Quinn in his Chief Executive Officers report.
With changes in the political landscape on both sides of the Atlantic, The results compounded by economic pressures, our business has experienced Group revenues were flat at 1,625.4m 2009: 1,617.3m, including considerable uncertainty.
On the back of political change, customers a 43m benefit from the strengthening US dollar exchange rate.
The have delayed decision making as they review their budgets.
As a overall organic decline in US revenues at constant currency was 4%, consequence of these market changes, in November we alerted the with the decline in higher margin product sales partially offset by market that the Group was unlikely to meet market expectations.
The UK businesses suffered from a reduction in The wider UK budget pressures and delays in contract awards the historic concentration of Ministry of Defence MOD order flow resulted in lower utilisation of our teams in the last quarter.
This towards the year end, although this impact was partially masked at was followed in January by confirmation that the delays in orders the revenue level by higher pass-through revenues, resulting in a 1% for survivability products and Unmanned Ground Vehicles within organic decline in EMEA revenues.
the QinetiQ North America QNA Technology Solutions Group would result in performance for our second half not exceeding that of the As a result of the reduction in higher contribution revenues, first half.
This was disappointing and highlighted the need for the underlying operating profit decreased to 120.3m 2009: 151.6m, business to be more agile and to look to itself to reduce its cost base, resulting in an underlying margin of 7.4% 2009: 9.4%.
The EMEA to ensure that it remains competitive.
underlying margin decreased to 7.5% 2009: 10.0% and the QNA underlying margin fell to 8.5% 2009: 10.8%.
Losses for the Ventures The safety of our operations remains a priority.
Following the tragic division reduced as a result of the partial disposal of Cody Gate loss of Nimrod XV230 in 2006 and the subsequent publication of Ventures in the prior year.
Underlying profit before tax was the Haddon-Cave Report in October 2009, we were determined 85.7m 2009: 130.2m.
to take on board any key findings which will further improve our ways of working.
Subsequently in November 2009, the Board The Group incurred impairment charges on goodwill of 50.1m, appointed Sir Robert Nelson QC to consider the findings and intangible assets and investments of 14.6m and tangible assets recommendations of the Haddon-Cave Report.
Other non-recurring items include a profit on business that substantial improvements have occurred in QinetiQ since 2004 divestments of 5.1m 2009: 13.0m and a charge for reorganising but recommended that further changes were implemented and that the EMEA business, announced in May 2009, of 42.1m.
The resulting improvements which have been made to date, are consolidated.
statutory loss before tax was 66.1m 2009: profit of 114.0m.
I am pleased to report that we are already well underway with implementing Sir Roberts recommendations and are in the The Group achieved a strong underlying cash conversion of 145% process of recruiting a new Group Safety Director to the Executive 2009: 107% due to a continued focus on cash generation.
QinetiQ has a long established heritage and track record in from operations increased to 204.6m 2009: 202.2m, before the airworthiness and safety.
It is important that we ensure through costs of the EMEA reorganisation announced in May 2009. our actions, processes, procedures and people that we are able to reinforce our credentials in this crucially important field.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Net debt, as at 31 March 2010, was 457.4m 31 March 2009: People 537.9m, resulting from strong cash flow from operations and QinetiQ is a unique organisation built on the technical knowledge, the beneficial translation impact of the US dollar exchange rate, expertise and integrity of its people.
They are involved in solving as the majority of the Groups debt is drawn in US dollars.
The some of societys most complex problems.
I believe our teams Groups gearing ratio at 31 March 2010 was 2.5x 31 March undertake their roles with integrity and demonstrate commitment 2009: 2.2x, well inside the covenant level of 3.5x.
During the second half of the year our employees adapted to significant change which will modernise and reposition Full year underlying earnings per share were 11.1p 2009: 15.9p.
the business for the future, ensuring we remain competitive in the market.
This required flexibility from our people and I thank them The Board is confident that the programme announced on 27 May for their ongoing commitment and support.
will restore the Group to strength over the next 24 months, including the rapid pay-down to a target gearing ratio of below Outlook 2x.
For this reason, the Board is recommending that no payment In both the US and the UK, the defence markets remain challenging be made either of a final dividend for the year just ended or of an as a result of the economic environment.
Additionally in the UK, the interim dividend for the current year.
It is the Boards expectation impending Strategic Defence and Security Review adds uncertainty that the Group will pay a final dividend with respect to the to forecasts for defence spending.
The Board has concluded its financial year ending 31 March 2011. review of operations and reset the priorities of the Group.
The new management is taking action over the next 24 months to reduce The Board costs, improve productivity and drive cash generation, both to There have been a number of changes to the Board during reduce the Groups net debt rapidly, and to refocus and reposition its the year.
businesses over the medium term for a return to profitable growth.
In May 2009, Sir John Chisholm announced his intention to retire In the current financial year, the performance of QinetiQs service from the Board as Chairman.
Some 19 years ago Sir John took businesses is likely to remain steady overall.
The product businesses, on the challenge of creating a successful commercial enterprise whose performance is by nature more variable, should benefit from out of the research laboratories of the Ministry of Defence.
the release of some orders in the US delayed from prior period, This culminated in the Companys listing on the London Stock although this will be partially offset by the weaker UK environment.
His personal commitment, integrity The Board believes it will meet its expectations for the current year.
and phenomenal energy have made QinetiQ the successful organisation it is today and, on behalf of the Board, I thank him for his enormous contribution.
I am sure everyone at QinetiQ wishes Sir John all the very best for his retirement.
In August last year, David H Langstaff joined the Board as a Non-executive Director, bringing an in-depth understanding Mark Elliott Chairman of the North American security market.
Non-executive Director 2 June 2010 Dr Peter Fellner stepped down from the Board at the close of the Groups AGM on 4 August 2009.
Graham Love left the Company and Leo Quinn joined the Board in the role of Chief Executive Officer in November.
Just after the year end, I was pleased to announce the appointment of Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent KCB CBE MA as an Independent Non-executive Director.
Sir James brings extensive experience of the operational challenges of the defence sector.
Definitions of underlying measures of performance are in the glossary on page 98.
Underlying financial measures are presented, as the Board believes these provide a better representation of the Groups long-term performance trend.
The gearing ratio is net debt to adjusted EBITDA and the definition is in the glossary on page 98.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5
