Chairmans statement Team strength forms foundation for sustainable business Demonstrated ability to manage risk in Africa As we noted in last years annual report, very difficult circumstances is a tribute to 2010 was a year in which Randgold Mark Bristow and his team.
Once again, would have to deal with a wide range of Randgold has shown that its real strength operational and developmental issues as it is its people - people whose skills, continued its rapid growth into a complex tenacity, commitment and courage form and multi-faceted mining business.
That the foundation for building a sustainable it has improved its profit - to the extent business.
that the board has been able to propose an 18% increase in the dividend - and Given the importance of our people, we paid kept the progress of its projects on track in considerable attention over the past year to expanding our top team, strengthening our structures and building leadership capability.
In growing our personnel, however, we are very mindful of the need to preserve the companys essentially entrepreneurial spirit: increased size will never be allowed to dilute the corporate DNA that distinguishes Randgold from its peers.
With the growing size and number of our operations, we have also been acutely aware of the necessity to continue to focus first of all on the safety of our workers, and as is recorded elsewhere in this report, good progress is being made on this front.
In recent months I have personally visited all our operations, and in the troubled Cte dIvoire in particular I saw again that one of the Randgold teams special strengths is their ability to understand and manage the risks attendant upon running a resource company in Africa.
The start of this new decade is witnessing another chapter in the process of transformation that started some 20 years ago with the re-opening for business of many African Randgold Resources 4 Annual report 2010 countries through fide-nationalisation and the establishment of regulatory regimes that permitted foreign investors to create value and share it with their host countries.
This created the opportunity for the kind of mutually advantageous partnerships between companies and local stakeholders that Randgold has been so successful in fostering.
As the developments in North Africa and elsewhere suggest, we may now be entering a new era where the peoples will can prevail over rulers who would not equitably share the wealth drawn from their countries natural resources.
It is a cardinal point of Randgolds partnership philosophy that its host countries share of the value created by its activities should be used not to reward a small elite but to help build sustainable economies capable of generating and sharing welfare for all.
The latest political this proposed African School of Mines Also during the year, Jon Walden changes we are now beginning to and the Nelson Mandela Institution resigned from the board and we thank see in Africa may well create fresh has agreed in principle to sponsor its him for the contribution he made.
I opportunities in new countries for would like to express my personal establishment with the support of, the development of more such appreciation to my colleagues on the among others, the World Bank.
The partnerships in an atmosphere of board for their independent spirit, School would be open to students transparency and trust.
This would be inquiring minds and vast expertise from all over the continent and would good news not only for Randgold but they bring to our deliberations.
seek to attract a high-calibre teaching for the entire mining industry.
staff from the best mining schools in the world.
On the general subject of mining in Africa, while most countries have During the year the eminent academic adapted well to their status as major Dr Kadri Dagdelen joined the board as mineral producers, all have been a non-executive director.
Dr Dagdelen constrained by the lack of technical Philippe Litard is a professor and departmental head skills available locally.
The mismatch Chairman at the Colorado School of Mines in between the growing demand for Denver and his appointment, which technical expertise and the shortage is in line with our phased succession of local engineers and geologists can plan, will add technical strength to the be seen all over the continent, and board.
We continue to look at the especially in West and Central Africa.
composition of the board with the aim Randgold has consequently taken of achieving the optimum combination the lead in an initiative to establish of international management an educational facility in Africa that experience, including technical, could help to bridge this gap by banking and diplomatic skills, along graduating promotions of African with an understanding of Africa and its geologists and engineers who would people.
The annual formal review of not have needed to go overseas for the board confirmed the effectiveness their higher technical education and of its members and structures, while would find ready employment in their highlighting some areas for further own countries upon graduation.
Republic of Mali has offered to host Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 5
