Directors report: Chairmans statement OUR PROGRESS OVER THE YEAR Our most important strength is the ability of our people tobring enjoyment to others.
At Rank we have been doing this for nearly three-quarters of a century.
Peter Johnson chairman 24 February 2011 During 2010, Rank recorded a further year of Our performance customers Our commercial performance is predicated on our ability to progress, delivering strong growth in earnings delight and to entertain the 2.5 million customers that we serve and dividend per share through improved across our businesses.
The hard work, ingenuity and inspiration revenue and profit conversion.
In a challenging of our team of more than 8,900 employees is central to our ability economic environment, the Group continued to create experiences that bring excitement, fun and a sense of community for all of our customers.
tostrengthen its financial position through debt As a consequence of these efforts, Group customer satisfaction reduction and stepped up investment in its assets as measured by net promoter score increased slightly to 38%.
Wehave set our sights on further improvement as we seek to buildon this years growth in customers and customer visits.
This performance was built on a number of key competitive We all share a desire to ensure that our customers can enjoy advantages, including the ownership of established and trusted themselves in safe environments and for preventing any negative gaming brands Mecca Bingo celebrates its 50th anniversary effects arising from our operations something that is critical to thisyear : the ability to deliver them across a range of land-based both customer trust in our brands and broader societys faith in venues and remote channels: increasingly sophisticated systems our integrity.
for understanding and engaging with our customers: and a The British Gambling Prevalence Survey, published in management team totally motivated to delivering outstanding February 2011 demonstrated the effects of the industrys approach service to customers.
in this area with the casinos and bingo clubs sectors once again Our most important strength is the ability of our people recording comparatively low incidences of problem gambling.
At Rank, we have been doing Building on our track record for responsible operation we thisfor nearly three-quarters of a century, from our early days have continued to engage positively with governments and asamotion picture company and since 1961 as one of the regulators in order to help shape a more supportive environment.
leading operators within Great Britains licensed gaming market.
Within the pages of this years annual report we pay tribute to our In Great Britain, we have made some progress, notably relating people and highlight just some of the outstanding contributions toGovernment proposals for the positive reform of amusement to customer service that were made during 2010. machines regulations in licensed bingo clubs.
During 2011, The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 3 Directors report: Chairmans statement continued Shareholder Return Adjusted earnings per share p Value of hypothetical 100 holding 10.2p Five years 150 07 7.4 125 08 7.3 100 09 8.9 75 10 10.2 50 25 Dividend per share p 2.4p 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 07 2.0 Rank FTSE 350 08 Nil Total shareholder return TSR 09 1.35 Shares in Rank delivered a 55% TSR in 2010 as a result of sustained operational improvement and the resumption of 10 2.4 dividend payments.
wewill continue to invest resources in this area in order to During 2010, the Group returned to growth in operating profit bepermitted to deliver the product and service improvements despite a number of headwinds, including the reversion of VAT that our customers have asked us for.
toa 17.5% standard rate and a difficult economic environment.
We were particularly encouraged by the fact that our improved Our performance community performance was based upon an increase in customer numbers We recognise that our ability to achieve our financial objectives and customer visits.
We have invested considerable resources isbased not simply on how we make our customers feel: but toimprove our customer insight capabilities and to use them alsohow the wider communities in which we operate feel todeliver better entertainment to our customers.
This is built upon what we are able to give back to thosecommunities.
Dividend In 2010, our businesses provided employment for more Reflecting the Groups continued progress, the board is pleased than8,900 people across Great Britain, Belgium and Spain torecommend that a final dividend of 1.66p per ordinary andgenerated more than 156m in local and national taxes.
sharebe paid on 4 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at During 2010, Ranks brand teams raised more than 288,000 1April 2011.
This represents a 23% increase compared with the for our chosen charity, Marie Curie Cancer Care an achievement final dividend for 2009 and is in line with our medium-term that owes everything to the dedication and generosity of our aimof growing dividends faster than earnings as we target a people and our customers.
The funds will enable the charity to levelof 3.0 times dividend cover.
provide more than 14,400 hours of care by Marie Curie nurses The full-year dividend in respect of the 2010 financial year often for people in communities where our businesses operate.
incorporating the interim and final dividends is 2.4p per share approximately 24% of the Groups adjusted earnings per share.
Our performance shareholders Rank delivered a positive return for shareholders during 2010, Outlook with the shares rising by more than 50% over the course of Looking ahead, the operating environment for our businesses theyear.
The shares delivered a total shareholder return TSR in2011 presents both challenges and opportunities.
The Group of55% for the 12-month period.
isin a strong position to meet both as a result of the actions we The resumption of ordinary dividend payments in April have taken in recent years to improve our service to customers, reflected how far the Group had come since the difficult period toextend and enhance our venues and remote channels, to keep of2007 and 2008, when the negative effects of the smoking ban operating costs in balance and to reduce debt.
and the Gambling Act combined with unexpected increases in In this our 75th year, we look forward to the future gaming duty caused significant loss of earnings.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 4
