Chairmans Statement Strong performance at Tesco plc.
She was seven years at Tesco, In 2010 your Company delivered a strong having joined from Unilever PLC, where she performance.
The management team had a 22-year career.
Lizs appointment achieved this despite facing challenging followed the departure of Colin Day, our global market growth conditions.
They previous Chief Financial Officer and Executive also achieved continued market share Director of the Board.
On behalf of the Board growth on most of our Powerbrands.
I would like to offer our thanks to Colin for this significant contribution to the Company over Cash the past ten years.
In 2010 the strong net revenue growth of the business has been leveraged into even higher During 2010 the Board continually assessed the increases in profit and good cash conversion.
performance and results of the business.
There was 1,386m of net cash flow from Through management presentations, it operations and this cash has been put to work reviewed strategy, brands, geographic area and and used for some strategic acquisitions that functional performance and its human resource will strengthen your Companys opportunity for function.
Additionally, the Board completed its profitable growth in the years ahead.
To annual corporate governance evaluation complete these acquisitions, the Company has covering Board performance, corporate taken on debt at a highly competitive rate.
Net responsibility and business risk.
Even with Annual General Meeting resolutions this debt, the balance sheet is in good shape.
The resolutions, which will be voted upon at Acquisitions our AGM of 5 May 2011, are fully explained in The largest of the strategic acquisitions the the Notice of Meeting.
In addition to the Company made in 2010 was the purchase of routine resolutions put annually to our AGM, SSL with its Durex and Scholl brands.
These they will include a resolution to make brands join the ranks of the RB Powerbrands amendments to the equity dilution limits within and offer attractive global growth our share scheme rules, which will more closely opportunities.
The Company has also align them to institutional guidelines.
I would announced its intention to purchase Paras, an encourage all our shareholders to attend Indian health and personal care company, our AGM.
strengthening the Companys footprint in this Thanks fast-growing market.
The Company also On behalf of my fellow Board members I would bought back the Rest of World rights to like to thank Bart Becht, his executive team and Suboxone and Subutex, our opiate withdrawal all RB employees globally for their commitment drugs, from Merck, to put this business on a and achievements over the year.
In challenging better growth platform.
circumstances they have delivered a strong Dividend performance for our shareholders.
We are The success of the year means your Board is grateful and proud.
able to propose a final dividend of 65 pence I would also like to thank my Board colleagues per share.
This brings the dividend for the for their contributions and support.
The Board year to 115 pence per share, an increase of does not for one second take for granted the 15%.
The total shareholder return for the year support of our shareholders and we thank you is 8.5%.
for your on-going confidence and investment in Board of Directors our Company.
Since the AGM of 2010 we have appointed In what looks to be another challenging year Liz Doherty as the Companys Chief Financial ahead for the consumer goods industry, the Officer, an Executive Director of the Board and Board believes that the strategies the Company member of our Executive Committee.
Liz was continues to pursue are the right ones.
previously Chief Financial Officer of Brambles We have the utmost confidence in the Limited, the top 25 Australian-listed supply management team to lead the Company to chain and information systems company.
to Brambles, Liz was Group International Finance Director with additional responsibility for corporate accounts, group tax and treasury Adrian Bellamy Chairman Reckitt Benckiser 2010 1
