Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans statement Determined strategic implementation This, coupled with consistent trading Board changes across all our markets, has enabled the I would like to thank Ulrich Ogiermann, Group to weather the unpredictable who resigned from the Board as of economic challenges of 2010.
I am 31 December 2010, for his contribution to particularly pleased that our mature the business over the years and we wish margins have started to recover during him well for the future.
2010 and in addition the business has Dividend generated more cash year on year, with It remains the intention of the Board to cash from operations increasing to 109.7 pay dividends at a level which it believes is million 2009: 105.1 million.
The strength sustainable throughout economic cycles of this cash generation has enabled the and is in line with its progressive payment business to invest signi cantly in growth, policy.
Reecting the underlying strength opening 125 centres, with an estimated of the Groups trading performance, our cost to our pro t and loss of 18.2 million strong cash generation, robust cash and to our cash ow of 69.7 million.
It has position and future confidence in I am pleased to report also enabled us to increase our dividend the groups prospects, the Board is by 22% to 23.2 million while maintaining a solid performance recommending an 8% increase in the full a robust net cash position at 191.5 year dividend per share to 2.6p per share.
by the group resulting million.
The board remains con dent in the Subject to the approval of shareholders signi cant opportunities for our business from the determined at the 2011 AGM, this final dividend will as the global trend towards exible, mobile be paid on Friday 27 May 2011 to implementation of work accelerates.
shareholders on the register at the close our strategy which Network growth of business on Tuesday 26 April 2011. has transformed our To capitalise on the signi cant opportunities created by the trend towards business model over Douglas Sutherland increased exible working we continue to Chairman the last two years.
grow our network to provide these agile 21 March 2011 workers with a mobile work platform.
Our Douglas Sutherland approach is two-fold: to open in new Chairman countries such as Oman, Ghana and Lithuania, thus increasing our global footprint, and deepen existing in-country networks opening in cities such as Canberra and Brasilia, thereby getting ever closer to new and existing customers.
In the year to 31 December 2010, we added 20,122 workstations an increase of 13% on 2009 for a total investment of 69.7 million.
Approximately half of this growth came from acquisitions in markets such as Brazil, China, UK and USA.
We will continue to explore such opportunities as we look to strengthen our market position and deliver on our strategy.
06 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
