Strategy and performance 01 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Overview of performance in 2010 Full year revenue of 2.5bn declined by 1.4% However, underlying revenue growth was on 2009 at actual exchange rates 1.2% at broadly flat year on year, with Asia growing constant rates.
Revenue performance by 1.4% and the Pacific declining by 1.1%.
showed an improving trend during the year Contract portfolio, which accounts for but was held back principally by Textiles & 74.3% of revenue, grew by 1.8% year on Hygiene in the Benelux and City Link, both year of which 1.0% is due to the net effect of which suffered from a combination of of acquisitions and disposals and the difficult market conditions and ineffective remainder to significantly improved management.
Facilities Services recorded customer retention rates.
revenue growth largely due to the contributions from Knightsbridge Guarding Adjusted operating profit before acquired in June and a new Transport for amortisation and impairment of intangible London cleaning contract.
Pest Control assets and one-off items amounted to revenue was broadly flat year on year, held 239.2m at CER, an increase of 8.3% on back by a decline in the UK Hygiene the prior year.
Adjusted profit before tax business, but nevertheless reported good before amortisation and impairment of levels of growth in its UK, North American, intangible assets and one-off items grew Northern European and East Africa & by 15.1% to 191.7m at CER and adjusted Caribbean Pest Control businesses.
While earnings per share at AER grew 18.2% to Ambius revenue declined 3.6%, the division 7.81p.
Strong divisional profit performances moved into positive revenue growth in were recorded in Pest Control, Facilities Q4 2010, the first time since Q4 2008.
The after tax loss Asia Pacific revenue declined by 4.9%, for the year was 20.3m, primarily due to impacted by the exit of the low-margin the recognition of a 95m impairment of Hong Kong Government contract.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 02 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Strategy update Serco, a 400m facilities services business in the UK, continental Europe and the Middle East.
The companys strategy is focused on five key strategic thrusts.
We outline our 2010 progress below.
In Q4 we announced the resignation of City Links Managing Director, Stuart Godman.
The Chief Executive has taken responsibility for running City Link until a new Managing Director is 1.
The senior management team in the Benelux operacustomer service tions of Textiles & Hygiene was replaced during 2010 with a new State of service at the end of December was 97% versus our 2010 Managing Director joining the business at the start of 2011. target of 95%.
Service levels in the Pest Control, Asia Pacific and The Marketing Director of the Pest Control division and the Sales Ambius divisions were high in 2010 with improved customer Director of Textiles & Hygiene have been given responsibility for satisfaction scores across the businesses.
Textiles & Hygiene coordinating the global marketing and sales agendas across the showed major improvements in service, aided in part by the Rentokil Initial group.
implementation across all countries of a standard operating During 2010 we invested in productivity, processes and capability framework.
Apart from periods of heavy snow when service levels of sales teams notably in Pest Control and Ambius.
Pest Control were severely impacted, City Link service levels were at 98.5%.
implemented a Sales Performance Assessment programme for Customer retention improved from 80.8% to 83.9% during the sales colleagues.
This follows the global roll-out in 2010 of Service year due to improvement in service levels.
Performance Assessment programmes for technicians.
Modules Customer care improvement is a key objective for 2011.
Our aim is for developing the capability of Supervisors and Managers will be to deliver immediate, effective and even surprising customer care implemented in 2011.
Asia Pacific also invested in its sales and for all our customers.
This will be driven through a range of marketing capability in 2010. initiatives and Programme Olympic.
Good progress has already Good progress was made during the year in Textiles & Hygiene and been made in the UK Pest Control business in driving front line Pest Control in service improvements through technical training, incentives and recognition, with further roll-out across the group work scheduling, route optimisation, customer care as outlined planned for 2011.
We will select and implement a Customer above and lead generation.
Contact Management system to allow account managers to track Common systems and processes dialogue with customers across a broad range of media and across Development of our capabilities and IT systems continue at multiple sites, thereby generating a single, real time, view of pace across all our divisions and functions.
A number of strategic customer contact.
Systems improvements will include investment initiatives, such as Programme Olympic, are placing further in telephony to facilitate call sharing and call handling across emphasis on the need to implement common systems for our multiple sites.
The initial focus will be City Link.
business processes, in addition to the current roll-out plans for our branch and depot solutions.
The group wide roll-out of 2.
Developing the capability of Google Apps was completed in 2010 to improve cohesion and our organisation and people collaboration across the group.
Major projects in key data centre and network infrastructure have been delivered and form a solid Since 2008 we have made considerable progress in improving the platform for future developments.
capability of our organisation and people.
However, operational control weakness in a small number of operations was exposed Programmes are also underway to consolidate and standardise HR, during 2010, most notably in the Benelux operations of Textiles Finance and Accounting systems across the group.
During the year & Hygiene and in City Link.
we invested in time and attendance and work scheduling systems in Initial Facilities Services.
In addition to key business systems, Functional expertise we continue to innovate in a number of other areas, such as route During the year management was strengthened further and the optimisation and systems to support sales and service productivity.
majority of key positions are now filled.
We were delighted to welcome in August Jeremy Townsend, formerly Finance Director Procurement at Mitchells & Butlers plc, as Chief Financial Officer.
After a long Excellent progress was made in 2010 in developing our capability in and successful career with Rentokil Initial Peter Lloyd, Divisional procurement.
Procurement activity has now been restructured as MD of Facilities Services, retired in September 2010.
He was a group function to facilitate leverage across the group, supported succeeded by Mike Brown, formerly Group Director of Operations by a strong team of dedicated specialist category management for Serco.
Prior to that, Mike was CEO of Integrated Services at resources covering direct and key indirect categories.
Key Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Strategy and performance 03 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive developments during the year include the establishment of an 4.
Operating at lowest possible cost Asian sourcing hub in Singapore to enable efficient low cost consistent with our service objectives country sourcing of products.
Significant progress has also and delivering maximum cash been made in rationalising the Hygiene product range with further programmes launched in the Pest Control and Facilities Cost savings of 60m were achieved during 2010.
Of this years Services divisions.
reductions, 17m came from indirect procurement savings and the remainder from further divisional and central cost savings During the year the company selected Ariba software which programmes.
However, delays in delivering savings arising from allows companies to automate, monitor, and control the complete the use of subcontractors in the City Link business resulted in purchasing life cycle from requisition to payment as the common a savings shortfall of over 10m.
transactional platform for Procure to Pay, to drive compliance and reduce administration costs.
This system will go live in UK Pest In Textiles & Hygiene the reorganisation programme in France, Control during Q2 2011. and its associated benefits, was completed during the year, ahead of plan and at a lower cost than initially anticipated.
The plant rationalisation programme in Belgium was also completed but 3.
Delivering operational excellence implementation and initial plant running costs were higher than Though good progress was made during 2010 in improving City anticipated.
A significant number of smaller restructuring projects Links hub and depot structure and IT capability, overall perforacross the division have delivered expected benefits.
While severe weather at the beginning Further cost savings of 60m are targeted in 2011 driven through and the end of the year was a contributing factor, the operational further improvements in service productivity, procurement and management of the business was poor, evidenced by high usage reduction in overheads.
In-year savings of 20m are targeted in of subcontractors, inadequate contingency planning to deal with City Link through a reduction in the use of subcontractors, route extreme conditions and poor engagement of front-line colleagues.
optimisation and depot hub rationalisation.
Procurement savings Significant management change has taken place and a detailed are anticipated through the rationalisation of the Textiles & operating plan is now being implemented which should deliver Hygiene ranges as well as continued savings in indirect costs substantial operational improvement prior to the 2011 Christmas driven by the group procurement team.
Overhead savings will be seasonal peak.
delivered through continued back office rationalisation and the Performance from our Textiles & Hygiene operations in the re-platforming of systems and processes through the relevant Benelux also proved disappointing during the year, impacted by Programme Olympic work streams.
higher processing and distribution costs associated with the The group generated operating cash flow of 220.1m 2009: Belgian restructuring and significant pricing pressure, particularly 316.7m representing 114% conversion from profit after adjusting in the Netherlands.
In addition, the business suffered from weak for one-off cash flows of 52.8m.
We achieved our target of operational control.
Although controls have improved since the 47 days sales outstanding DSO and we are targeting further appointment of new management in December and pricing improvement to 45 days by the end of 2011.
Capital expenditure pressures have eased, the recovery plan remains at an early stage was again well controlled at 87% of depreciation 2009: 83%.
Increasing the scale of our country operations to drive efficiency 5.
Delivering profitable growth Increasing the scale of certain of our country operations creates efficiencies through reduced back office costs and improved In 2010 we focused particularly on improving sales management service productivity, as well as increasing cross-selling opportuniand sales organisation and piloted a number of front-line incentive ties.
Pest & Hygiene UK & Ireland were merged with effect from schemes to reward improvements in growth and service.
The combined business now reports to Andy Ransom, investments in capability and infrastructure improvements noted Divisional MD of Pest Control.
On 1 January 2011 the Hygiene above both support the delivery of underlying profitability as well businesses in Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden excluding the as providing a platform for revenue growth in due course.
Medical business, Poland, Portugal and Spain were also merged During 2010 the Olympic programme has piloted various initiatives with Pest Control, allowing the Textiles & Hygiene division to focus that help underpin sales and provide potential for growth.
These primarily on its major businesses in France, the Benelux, Germany, include IT investments to aid sales productivity, cross selling, job Austria and Italy.
sales and pricing, customer account management and customer complaint management.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 04 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Service line expansion in June we were pleased to announce Objectives for 2011 the acquisition of Knightsbridge Guarding Limited.
The business, The group has four key objectives for 2011.
They are to turn around which has a strong reputation as an expert provider of high City Link and Textiles & Hygiene Benelux, to expand the groups focus calibre, bespoke security for the corporate sector, has performed on customer service to customer care, to deliver consistent and particularly well during its first six months, winning a substantial profitable organic growth and to deliver further cost savings of 60m.
integrated services contract alongside the cleaning business.
While financial controls have improved in Benelux Textiles & On 14 February 2011 we announced the acquisition of the Services Hygiene since the appointment of new management in December division of Santia Group, previously known as Connaught and pricing pressure appears to have eased, the recovery plan for Compliance Ltd, for a cash consideration of 5.6m with up to this business remains at an early stage of development.
an additional 3m payable depending on various post-closing City Links operational plan for improvement is further advanced adjustments.
The business comprises three business units and focuses on the four key areas of customer care, contingency Fumigation & Pest Control, Water Treatment & Hygiene and planning for periods of peak trading, operations, and sales and Fire Safety & Prevention and is expected to generate annualised marketing.
Customer care initiatives include investment in superior revenues of 24m.
Pest Control will be merged with our UK Pest telephony and customer care tools, while contingency plan Control business and Water will be merged with the existing UK measures include developing pre-determined guidelines in Water Hygiene business within the Facilities Services division.
response to major infrastructure disruption such as severe weather.
Fire will form a separate business unit within the Facilities Services Operational improvements will include reducing the reliance on ad division.
Our immediate priorities will be to deliver excellent hoc subcontractors to below 5% and the closure of the head office service to our new customers and to engage with the 430 in Camberley.
Sales and marketing initiatives include targeting colleagues who will join us as a result of this acquisition.
profitable growth in a small number of key sectors and the deployment of My City Link to give real-time, detailed access Funding on the transit of customers parcels through the network.
We have delivered another year of strong cash performance in 2010, Our focus on the customer service agenda will be extended in generating 220.1m 2009: 316.7m representing 114% conversion 2011 to customer care.
Our aim is to be proactive in contacting, from profit after adjusting for one-off cash flows of 52.8m.
listening to and responding to all our customers, not just the very large.
In 2010 we began to lay the foundations for growth and aim At 31 December 2010 the group had net debt of 954m.
Of this, in 2011 to deliver consistent and profitable organic growth through 868m is represented by capital market notes issued by the group and the earliest maturity of any of these instruments is 2013.
The excellent customer retention and greatly improved marketing, group has good headroom in its bank facilities in terms of funds sales and innovation capability.
available to withdraw and has good and improving headroom in Building on our successful cost savings programmes over the last relation to its covenant.
two years, we anticipate further savings of 60m, to be achieved The company has commenced discussions with the pension through service productivity improvements, procurement trustees in relation to the triennial valuation of the UK Pension product rationalisation and indirects and reduction in overheads.
Scheme as at 31 March 2010 and any funding implications arising from this.
Outlook for 2011 A little over half way into our five-year turnaround plan the Dividend group has undergone considerable and, in most cases, successful structural change.
Good progress has been made in customer The board continues to keep dividends under review and is service, evidenced by continued improvement in customer committed to their resumption when i the companys cash flow is retention on our contract business.
Cash delivery has also been robust and ii when the foundations of sustainable and profitable excellent.
Nevertheless, much remains to be done on customer growth have been established in all of the companys principal businesses.
Only one of these criteria has been met in the financial care and on capability development.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Strategy and performance 05 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive In the coming year we anticipate continued good progress in Pest Control, Facilities Services, Asia Pacific and Ambius.
City Links operational inefficiencies are expected to be largely resolved by October 2011 but financial delivery will be weak until then.
Textiles & Hygiene Benelux controls have improved and pricing pressures have reduced but the recovery plan is at an early stage of development.
Programme Olympic is performing well, driving capability in growth, customer care and administration.
We expect these initiatives to deliver organic revenue growth in our contract businesses during the second half of 2011.
To conclude, your company is well underway on its programme of operational change which is already driving efficiency, capability and which will in time underpin future profitable growth.
There remains, however, much still to do while we have seen good progress during 2010 in the Pest Control, Facilities Services and Asia Pacific divisions, the performance from City Link and Textiles & Hygiene Benelux has been disappointing.
We are determined to introduce fundamental operational improvement plans at both these businesses in the coming financial year and to demonstrate organic revenue growth in our contract businesses from the second half of 2011.
Our shareholders, employees and customers continue to give strong support to Rentokil Initial and we thank them for their loyalty, commitment and trust.
John McAdam Alan Brown Chairman Chief Executive 14 March 2011 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
