4 Rexam annual report 2010 chairmans statement I am pleased and much encouraged to report an excellent performance in 2010, with total sales including discontinued operations up 2% to 4,962m and total underlying profit before tax up 45% to 412m.
The board is proposing a final dividend of 8p per share, making a total dividend of 12p for the year.
Our successful focus on the fundamentals controlling costs, optimising cash and improving our return on capital employed generated these record results, and led to a much stronger balance sheet at the year end.
We have reduced net debt to 1.68bn, down from 1.83bn a year ago.
This performance follows an especially difficult year in 2009, when our trading was impacted heavily by the global economic turbulence.
The actions we took in 2009 and 2010 mean that our business is now in a much stronger position going forward.
We are not complacent about the challenges that lie ahead.
Although the trading environment is more stable, the global economy remains fragile.
We have no power over consumer spending so we will remain focused on managing the levers over which we do have control.
One of those levers is portfolio management and we are currently marketing the beverage and specialty operations of the Closures division for disposal.
Having strengthened the foundations of our business, we are looking ahead with confidence.
In his chief executives review, Graham details how we believe we can achieve our vision to be the best global consumer packaging company and how we shall measure our progress towards this goal.
Financially, we aim to continue to generate profitable revenue growth and increase our return on capital.
To do this, we need to deepen further our relationships with customers and suppliers, ensuring we deliver value through providing excellent products and services.
We shall foster a culture that drives performance, pursuing efficiencies relentlessly across all areas of our business with a high awareness of, and focus on, safety and risk management.
5 These are not just short term aspirations they are long term objectives.
Whilst our board must not lose sight of shareholders immediate needs, we must also plan for the future.
We are embedding a focus on Rexams long term sustainability environmentally and socially, as well as economically in everything we do.
Environmentally, we delivered further efficiencies in our use of resources and we see this trend of improvement continuing.
We have made strides in our objective to build a winning organisation creating a culture where our people can flourish and we continue to develop relationships within the communities in which we operate.
During the year, the board commissioned an independent third party to conduct the annual board performance evaluation.
I believe we shall benefit from giving even more time to long term strategic deliberations and wider management succession planning.
Our risk management processes were recognised as being very effective and, aware of how important first rate risk management is to the long term prosperity of the Company, the board and the management team will ensure that this area remains a high priority.
In conclusion, the excellent 2010 performance has strengthened our platform for the future, and I am confident that we are well placed for 2011 and beyond.
It only remains for me to thank those responsible for 2010s achievements.
I should like to thank my colleagues on the board for their wise counsel.
The loyalty of our customers, suppliers and shareholders continues to play a significant part in Rexams success, and I thank them too.
And, I should like to pay a particular tribute to our people.
In spite of the recent challenges in the trading and operating environments, the energy, enthusiasm and professionalism of our employees delivered this excellent set of results.
I thank them all for their contribution to Rexam.
Sir Peter Ellwood chairman 23 February 2011 dividend The board of Rexam recommends a 2010 final dividend of 8p per share, amounting to a total dividend for 2010 of 12p per share.
Subject to shareholders approval at Rexams AGM on 5 May 2011, 4p 8p 12p the final dividend will be paid on 7 June 2011 to all shareholders on the register at close of business on 13 May 2011. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
