Chairmans statement A year of record results Our commitment to operational excellence has seen us capitalise on improved conditions in the external environment.
Jan du Plessis Rio Tinto had an outstanding 2010.
After responding to the challenges for our products has allowed us to increase our annual dividend by of the global financial crisis, and taking steps to stabilise and 20 per cent compared with our previous commitment.
We are also strengthen our organisation, we are now concentrating on, and proceeding with a US$5 billion share buy-back, which we intend delivering, operational excellence.
This focus has allowed us to to complete by the end of 2012, subject to market conditions.
benefit from opportunities that have arisen in the more favourable Improved global economy external environment, and to deliver record results in 2010.
The worlds major developed economies gradually stabilised The exemplary performance of Rio Tintos people was fundamental during 2010, in response to government fiscal and monetary to our success in 2010.
Their efforts enabled us in many cases stimulus packages.
Most were experiencing renewed GDP growth to work our assets throughout the year at, or above, nameplate by the third quarter of 2009.
China saw a sharp rebound in GDP capacity, while also improving our safety performance.
In 2010, growth, up from an annualised rate of nearly six per cent in 2009 we set a new Group record in the annual production of iron ore. to over ten per cent in 2010.
We achieved record underlying EBITDA of US$26.0 billion, and This economic stimulus has helped trade to recover from the record underlying earnings of US$14.0 billion, up 82 per cent low point of the global crisis, and thanks to our stronger balance and 122 per cent on 2009, respectively.
Net earnings were sheet, we have been well positioned to benefit from this recovery.
US$14.3 billion compared with US$4.9 billion in 2009.
We have sharpened our focus on our programme of organic We remain committed to efficient capital management.
It is our growth and, for 2011, we envisage continuing this focus, with belief that the long term creation of shareholder value requires a capital expenditure set to increase to US$13 billion.
balanced approach to investing in growth and returning excess capital to shareholders, while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
We believe we are well prepared for the key challenges facing the Our confidence both in our own portfolio and in future demand mining industry as we grow to meet rising demand.
We will need to overcome skills shortages as we compete for new talent not only with other mining companies, but also with other expanding Dividends sectors, such as oil and gas.
This trend will become more apparent US cents 111.22 111.23 as we move into new, riskier geographies.
There will be new 108.00 technical challenges as we develop more remote and complex 108.00 orebodies, and increased competition from new players in our 85.07 sector.
Although we anticipate continued volatility in our markets, 2009: 45.00 we will need to look beyond the peaks and troughs of a cycle and be prepared to expand through volatile times.
45.00 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 8 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information On behalf of the board, I continue to lead the succession and routine Sustainable development refreshment of directors to ensure the most appropriate balance of As the world becomes more reliant on the metals and minerals skills and experience, and to drive effective decision making.
we produce, we are increasingly challenged to grow and to find new, more efficient ways of providing our markets with the raw Outlook materials they demand.
And as we grow, we are able to share more Urbanisation and industrialisation in populous parts of the world of the sustainable benefits of our activities with those around us.
will continue to provide a strong platform for increasing demand Rio Tintos commitment to sustainable development permeates for metals and minerals.
Although long term fundamentals for our entire business.
It is integral to our daily operations, to our growth are strong, there are downside risks in the short term, and legacy, and to our future.
By maintaining our reputation as a potential for medium term volatility due to persistent economic responsible employer, neighbour, partner and citizen, we are imbalances.
Financial systems remain fragile, particularly in constantly renewing our licence to operate.
This approach gives OECD countries.
The increase in sovereign debts, and government us continuing access to the people, capital and resources we need.
measures to address fiscal imbalances, are likely to temper short term growth.
We are recognised as a leader in sustainable development, as evidenced by our continued listing on the FTSE4Good, the We constantly seek to assess the potential impact of these factors Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and the Carbon Disclosure on the Groups plans, and to enhance our capabilities to predict Leadership Index.
Our reputation helps us forge robust alliances demand and understand our markets.
with other organisations that lead the way in sustainable Our peoples commitment development, such as the three year partnership we formed with It is inspiring to see the way our global team of people the International Union for Conservation of Nature in 2010.
By works together and strives for ways to improve our collective sharing knowledge and best practice with our partners, we seek to performance.
Throughout the year, their commitment, talent continue to deliver sustainable benefits to the people and places and integrity have led to the delivery of remarkable results.
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank all of our people for Governance and risk their hard work during the past year.
Our thanks also go to our To achieve our vision of global sector leadership, we must shareholders, whose continued support of Rio Tinto has helped continue to maintain the highest standards of corporate us achieve record levels of performance in 2010. governance.
These standards are underpinned by ethical guidance in the form of our global code of conduct, The way we work: the application of best practice: and continually striving for excellence to create value for our shareholders.
Based upon our agreed strategic framework, Rio Tintos board supports and oversees the Groups management in its delivery of sustained operational excellence as well as growth opportunities, whether organic or through prudent corporate activity.
The board recognises that risk is an integral and unavoidable Jan du Plessis, chairman part of doing business and that while risk carries threats, it also offers opportunities.
Our processes for handling risk effectively are embedded throughout our organisation and are essential for maintaining our competitive advantage.
There is a more detailed discussion of risk management on page 24.
Board succession planning is an essential component of effective corporate governance and the continued success of our business.
In 2010, we strengthened our board through the appointment of two new non executive directors, Ann Godbehere and Robert Brown.
We also saw two retirements from the board.
Sir David Clementi, who was chairman of the Audit committee, stepped down in May 2010, as did David Mayhew.
In accordance with a provision of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will stand for re-election by shareholders annually with effect from the 2011 annual general meetings.
As previously indicated, Yves Fortier, formerly chairman of the board of Alcan Inc and also Sir Rod Eddington, will not be standing for re-election by shareholders in 2011.
Yves and Rod have each made significant contributions to the board during their tenure with Rio Tinto and I would like to express my personal appreciation of the tremendous support they have given to me over the years.
Meanwhile, Andrew Gould, Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Remuneration committee, has announced that he will be leaving the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 annual general meetings.
