chairmans statement Chris Cole, Chairman Strategy It has been a tough year for our industry but Our strategy has always been to manage the business prudently through nevertheless, I am pleased to report that the the economic cycles to which our industry is subject.
While the most recent downward phase of the cycle has been deeper than most could actions we took before the recession became have imagined, we have continued to practise the tried and tested entrenched and the tight business we have management principles that we have learned and which have enabled run during the past year, mean that we are Ashtead to expand securely in good markets and to trade well relative to our peers when markets are weaker.
one of very few large rental companies to have remained profitable.
The early actions we took more than a year ago to reduce fleet size when the recession was just beginning allowed us to continue to trade profitably while positioning us to expand once again when the upturn This has taken a lot of hard work from all our staff and some difficult comes.
The reduction in fleet and also, sadly, in manpower, has not been decisions but we have continued to deliver good EBITDA margins to the detriment of our ability to serve all our main markets.
We have even with significantly lower construction industry volumes.
The maintained the store infrastructure required to offer a nationwide service diversification of our service offering has, to some extent, acted as in both the UK and also broadly the US and to continue to be able to a buffer to the sharp decline in new construction.
We have maintained respond with the speed and efficiency for which we are known.
our operational performance in line with our expectations and believe As expected, some of our smaller competitors less well financed than we have performed well relative to both our UK and US peers, which ourselves have not survived the recession and that, combined with the is testament to the high-quality service we offer our customers.
superior customer service we can deliver, has resulted in us gaining market We have also focused this year on positioning the Group to take full share in both the US and the UK.
We provide more detail on pages 12 advantage of the upturn when it comes.
and 13 of this report on how our strategy changes over the phases of the economic cycle and where we are now in this process.
Trading Our results reflect the prevailing market conditions with rental revenues Funding declining in Sunbelt by 25% to $989m and in A-Plant by 21% to 152m.
A critical backbone to our strong operational performance is our balance Our underlying profit before taxation was 5m compared with 87m in sheet strength.
In recent years we have devoted considerable effort to 2009 and underlying revenue was 837m 2009 1.1bn.
The rightsizing ensuring that our financial structure, as well as our business model, is measures we took in winter 2008 9 and our ongoing efforts to maximise suited to our cyclical business.
This focus has paid off in the past year productivity meant that operating costs before depreciation and used as, unlike many others, we have not had to manage our operations under equipment sold were down 23% at Sunbelt and 16% at A-Plant.
result, our EBITDA margin remained strong at 31% 2009: 33%.
Our debt facilities continue to be committed for the long term, with Underlying earnings per share for the year were 0.2p 2009: 11.9p.
an average remaining maturity of five years.
This year we extended the We also managed the business so as to maximise cash generation with maturity of a $1.3bn tranche of our senior debt by more than two years 191m generated in the year, 93% of which was applied to reduce until November 2013.
Based on February 2010 asset values, availability outstanding debt with 13m of dividends paid to shareholders.
at 30 April was $537m and remains well above $150m, the level at which the entire debt package is covenant free.
Therefore, we continue to enjoy significant headroom on our debt package, providing the flexibility and 5 I n preparation for the next phase of the cycle, we have started a fleet reinvestment programme, funded from operating cash flow.
Chris Cole strength to enable our businesses to succeed and prosper in the years Outlook ahead.
It also means that we have the funding in place to capitalise on Fleet on rent and revenue continued to be encouraging in both our the opportunities which will arise in future.
We are well prepared and markets during May, supporting our view that the winter of 2010 was ready to resume growth when trading conditions change.
Dividend In the US we continue to believe that we will see stabilisation in markets Despite our reduced profitability, in light of our strong cash generation the in the current year with improving trends through 2011.
In the UK, whilst Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.0p per share 2009: 1.675p current markets are also stabilising, uncertainty around the impact of making 2.9p for the year 2009: 2.575p.
Payment of the 2009 10 public sector spending cuts makes the medium term less certain.
dividend will cost 14.5m 2009: 12.8m and, whilst not covered by In preparation for the next phase of the cycle, we have started a fleet 2009 10 earnings, is in the Boards view justifiable given the Groups very reinvestment programme, funded from operating cash flow.
If the proposed final dividend is approved at the structured debt facility means that we can react quickly if markets differ forthcoming Annual General Meeting, it will be paid on 10 September materially from those we anticipate.
2010 to shareholders on the register on 20 August 2010.
Moving forward, the Board will aim to provide a progressive dividend having regard to Having strengthened our market position in the year just ended and with both profit and cash generation, whilst seeking to keep to levels that the flexibility provided by our strong balance sheet, the Board believes are sustainable over the cycle.
that the Group is well positioned for the future.
Employees As the recession took hold and we reduced our cost base there was unfortunately the need to reduce our employee numbers.
Being forced to make cuts to the workforce was hard for everyone involved.
I and my management colleagues are therefore very grateful for the loyalty and conscientious hard work of the Ashtead team in both the US and the UK Chris Cole and the substantial commitment from our staff this year.
A difficult job is 16 June 2010 made easier by knowing the quality and dedication of the team providing the support.
It is a testament to our team that we have remained focused on servicing the customer through all the uncertainty.
Board There were no changes in the composition of the Board during the year but Gary Iceton will be standing down at the 2010 Annual General Meeting having completed two full terms as a non-executive director.
I would like to record our gratitude to Gary for his contribution to the Boards deliberations over the last six years and for his work since 2007 as chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
A separate announcement regarding Garys successor will be made in due course.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
