Business review ChaIRmaNS StatemeNt this has been a testing year, both for the world economy and for Rolls-Royce.
I am therefore delighted to report that Rolls-Royce has performed well in these challenging circumstances.
the group conducts business on a global basis and has customers for their support, and recognise the customers in 120 countries.
It is this broad customer base, tremendous efforts of Rolls-Royce management and staff coupled with an extensive product and services portfolio, in responding so professionally to this very regrettable which underpins our success.
we have continued to grow incident.
the safety of our products has always been, and our order book in 2010 to 59.2 billion.
underlying profits always will be our first priority.
before tax increased by four per cent to 955 million.
we are committed to conducting business to the highest we are proposing a final payment to shareholders of standards, and to enriching the societies in which we live 9.6 pence per share, bringing the full year payment to and work.
as well as creating employment and generating 16 pence per share.
this is an increase of 6.7 per cent wealth, we invest heavily and consistently in improving the and reflects the boards continuing confidence in the environmental performance of our products.
own research, and in collaboration with universities around the world, we are driving innovation and extending the International trade tensions, uneven growth, fiscal boundaries of human knowledge.
our training tightening and currency instability have combined to programmes raise levels of skills and capability and set new make the economic environment uncertain.
In these standards of engineering excellence.
Rolls-Royce people circumstances it is important to have a balanced business around the world are directly involved in community portfolio.
this annual report records that our three projects and voluntary activities, contributing to the businesses outside civil aerospace marine, defence communities in which we operate.
aerospace and energy have all grown underlying profits at double digit rates during 2010, adding to the resilience this year we took further steps to embed our global Code of the business.
Rolls-Royce is a responsible group and we are committed to ensuring that we conduct business we continue to benefit from the high barriers to entry appropriately and to the highest levels of integrity.
In which are a consequence of our long-term investments order to ensure that we achieve best practice, our and the businesses in which we are involved.
our procedures and training programmes are continually high-technology products and services require reviewed and involve all our employees.
sophisticated systems integration and are hard to replicate.
we continuously explore new ways in which technologies we have continued to invest in our own people through developed in one part of our business can be applied in training and development programmes.
these others, reinforcing this strong market position.
programmes operate worldwide, including from dedicated training facilities in the uK and uS.
these as well as meeting the challenges of the marketplace facilities are used to run a range of programmes for in 2010, Rolls-Royce has had to manage the high our worldwide workforce and for our customers.
profile failure of a trent 900 engine on a Qantas airbus a380.
Rolls-Royce behaved as you would expect of a the board is committed to improving our environmental highly proficient engineering company.
we identified the performance across all business sectors.
Continuous problem quickly, and applied ourselves to the swift return investment in the gas turbine engine, the core product of the fleet to normal operation.
I would like to thank our for Rolls-Royce, has progressively improved fuel efficiency 02 Rolls-Royce Group plc annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review and will continue to do so.
the new trent xwb for executive, John Rose, who has announced his decision to example will be 16 per cent more fuel efficient than the retire at the end of march this year.
John has been Chief first trent aero engine to enter service 15 years ago.
this executive for 15 years, during which time he has done the means less cost for our customers as well as lower most extraordinary job.
he has transformed Rolls-Royce emissions.
the application of gas turbines and efficient into a world-class company operating on a global stage.
diesel engines in the marine sector also offers the his strategic vision has led to the construction of a resilient possibility of significant reductions in emissions at sea.
business with a powerful portfolio of internationally as well as developing core technologies, the group is competitive products and services.
his leadership and exploring other low carbon energy sources including civil tenacity have helped establish a platform from which we nuclear power, fuel cell technology and tidal power.
expect revenues to double in the decade ahead.
we owe John a huge debt of gratitude for what he has done for the In 2011, we are proposing to introduce a new holding Company, not only as Chief executive, but during his career company for the group.
this will enable us to continue of 27 years with Rolls-Royce.
our progressive shareholder payment policy and provide cash returns to shareholders in the most efficient manner John has also been a driving force in public policy, through the issue and redemption of C Shares.
championing the cause of high value-added manufacturing and services.
he argued for the importance Rolls-Royce supports a wide range of charitable causes of rebalancing the uK economy long before it became 16.00p with particular emphasis on the armed forces benevolent fashionable to do so.
I am sure he will continue to be a Full year payment to funds and educational programmes involved with powerful advocate for the importance of science, shareholders science and engineering.
technology and maths, and of the importance of technical education in a nations ability to generate wealth.
this years Rolls-Royce Science prize was won by a team from teesdale School, County durham for their design John Rose will be succeeded as Chief executive by John project to enhance the lives of animals in their local zoo.
Rishton, who is currently the Chief executive officer of the they received their award of 20,000 from John Rose at dutch based, global retail group Royal ahold.
John Rishton an awards dinner attended by senior industry leaders, has been a member of the Rolls-Royce board for four years.
the Science prize as well as knowing Rolls-Royce well, John has a deep attracts entrants from thousands of schools across the uK.
understanding of the aviation industry gained as Chief Financial officer at british airways.
he also has I would like to thank all our management and employees manufacturing experience gathered from a number of very much for their loyalty and hard work during the past senior positions at Ford.
I have come to know John Rishton year.
our results are a testament to the focus and well.
he is an outstanding individual, with experience as the commitment I see demonstrated in every part of the successful Chief executive of a global publicly listed business and at all levels of the organisation.
he is an instinctive team player, and was the impressed by the initiative shown by Rolls-Royce people unanimous choice of the board.
I am certain he will prove in seizing opportunities and responding to the needs of himself a distinguished Chief executive of Rolls-Royce when our customers.
he takes up his new role at the end of march this year.
once again the group benefited from the wise counsel of the technologies that Rolls-Royce deploys are at the the International advisory board Iab during 2010. this frontiers of engineering.
we continue to invest in board, whose membership is set out later in this report, was the long-term growth of our group.
we enjoy the long-term support of our large customer base and established in 2006 to help provide a broad perspective on suppliers, and we will continue to broaden our portfolio issues such as global political developments, business risks organically or by acquisition in our core sectors.
we and opportunities and economic trends.
the advice they intend to maintain a strong balance sheet and a single give is extremely valuable to us as we develop our global a credit rating which we believe provides the foundation footprint and become more international in our outlook for the long-term growth of our businesses.
I would like to thank the members of the Iab for their work during the year in providing such high-level a great company is built by first class, passionate and strategic advice.
we have these in Rolls-Royce and I believe that we will continue to improve our business I would also like to thank my fellow directors for their and deliver excellent value for all our shareholders.
superb support and hard work over the past year.
there is of course one very important tribute to be paid by Sir Simon Robertson the board and everyone else in Rolls-Royce to our Chief Chairman February 9, 2011 03 Rolls-Royce Group plc annual report 2010 Financial statements Governance Business review
