4 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that 2010 was another year in which Rotork delivered record revenue and profit, with progress being made by all three divisions.
Market conditions improved compared with the previous year and this was reflected in the record order intake.
The broad base of our business and the level of emerging market focus ensured that, whilst not all our geographic The current order markets grew in the year, each end-market, book and market division, and the Group as a whole, did.
activity support the Through the year we have continued to an important growth market for us, we Boards expectation invest in our facilities, our people and our opened a new factory in Bangalore and products to enable the Group to capitalise also started work to rebuild our existing of making further on the long-term growth prospects in the factory in Chennai.
This will increase markets we currently serve.
At the same our manufacturing capacity and provide progress in 2011 time, investment in product development a platform to address the increasing and potential acquisitions will widen what demand from India.
Once completed in Roger Lockwood Chairman we define as our addressable market so 2011, it will also house our innovation, that we continue to create value for our design and engineering centre RIDEC shareholders.
that was announced in August 2010 and which is currently operating from temporary offices.
Financial Highlights Revenue of 380.6m was 7.6% higher Rotork Fluid Systems, which manufactures than the previous year and with profit and sells pneumatic and hydraulic before tax up 7.6% to 97.9m, Group actuators, and is more focused on the oil return on sales was in line with last year & gas market than the other parts of the at 25.7%.
Currency was a less significant Group, was the division most affected by factor this year than it has been for many the slowdown in 2009 and, accordingly, years but remained a tailwind, with the saw the most significant rebound in order majority of the impact arising in the second input, up 35.1%.
Revenue grew 7.1% to half of the year.
Cash balances of 97.9m 106.8m but operating profit fell 6.8% at the end of the year reflected strong cash to 13.3m as operating margins reduced generation throughout the year.
Total Shareholder Return Margins improved in the second half, rebased to 100, 1 Jan 06 as a result of higher volumes and the Divisional Highlights return of competitive price pressures to Rotork Controls, the division which more normal levels, but over the year manufactures and sells our range of 350 as a whole this did not offset lower first 321 market-leading electric actuators and half margins which were affected by includes the Rotork Process Control 300 the continuation of the difficult trading products, reported revenue growth environment in 2009, the slightly dilutive 250 of 7.0% to 243.4m.
This division effect of an acquisition and the higher 203 contributed 63.9% of Group revenue.
The divisions Operating profit rose to 78.8m, up 155 continued organic growth was augmented 8.5% and the division achieved a 32.4% 150 130 131 by Ralph A. Hiller Hiller, purchased in operating margin compared with 31.9% in May as part of our strategy of developing 100 the prior year.
Some of the larger projects our sales coverage and increasing our which were delayed through 2009 50 presence in the important nuclear power returned in 2010 and this was seen in a market.
The business has a distribution number of countries and market sectors.
0 arm as well as the nuclear actuator Quotation levels remained positive as Ja Dn e c 0 6 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 manufacturing arm and, whilst further did the number of active projects we are investment is needed to maximize the tracking globally, with the medium-term potential of the acquisition, the addition ROTORK p. l. c. prospects in each of the oil & gas, power FTSE Industrial Engineering Sector of its nuclear-certified hydraulic actuators and water markets encouraging.
In India, Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 has broadened Rotorks nuclear product either through our continued strategy to remain committed to those principles offering.
Integration of Hiller is progressing augment our business with acquisitions or which ensure we run our business in a well and its understanding of the nuclear via special dividends.
Following publication industry is already benefiting other parts of the UK Corporate Governance Code of the Group.
June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Dividend Council, we intend to introduce annual The Board recommends a final dividend of Rotork Gears, which manufactures and re-election for the Chairman and all the 19.75p per share which, taken together sells manual and motorized gearboxes, other Directors.
We have always believed with the interim dividend, gives a payment grew revenue by 6.5% to 39.2m.
As that good governance stems from a quality of 32.5p per share 2009: 28.4p, a result of these higher revenues and Board with a breadth of experience and representing a 14.4% increase.
This a continued focus on costs, operating skills and non-executives who are able to dividend will be payable on 6 May 2011 margins improved to 23.2%, reversing provide the necessary level of question and to shareholders on the register on 8 April most of the reduction seen in 2009. debate in the boardroom.
As a result of this increase, dividend Operating profit was 9.1m, 13.4% our annual appraisal of Board effectiveness cover will reduce to 2.5 times 2009: 2.6. higher than the prior year.
Rotork Gears is to ensure that our Board is able to In addition, the directors intend to pay a remains the consolidator in what is a very participate meaningfully in discussion and special dividend of 11.5p per share on 24 fragmented market and has built on its make objective and informed decisions.
June 2011 to shareholders on the register leading position in the year with the launch Following the latest review, I am satisfied on 27 May 2011.
This represents a further of new products and by targeting new the composition of the Board enables it to cash distribution of 10.0m.
customers in countries with the greatest fulfil its expected role.
Board Composition Outlook Cash Generation I am pleased to welcome Gary Bullard to The long-term growth prospects continue Cash balances have increased to 97.9m the Board as a non-executive director.
to be positive for Rotork as we benefit from Gary previously held sales director and in the year as a result of strong operating infrastructure investment in both new and cash flows.
The main outflows were tax managing director roles at IBM and BT existing plant.
The need for automation and dividends, as well as the 5.5m Group and now provides management is increasing as our customers drive acquisition of Hiller.
We remain focused on consultancy services to large IT and plant safety improvements through their working capital management but higher telecommunications companies.
He is organisations and seek greater operating a member of the Audit and Nomination levels of revenue towards the end of efficiencies.
2010 meant net working capital absorbed Committees and Chairman of the 14.0m of cash during the year.
Our wide geographic presence, especially this, our cash generation key performance in the countries experiencing the greatest indicator, which measures conversion of growth in demand, the breadth of our Corporate Governance operating profit into cash, was 96.5%.
product portfolio and strength of our High standards of corporate governance Going forward, we intend to use this cash customer relationships, puts us in a strong are rightly expected of the Board and we to generate incremental shareholder value, position to benefit from a continued increase in business activity.
Following several years of favourable Dividend History movements in foreign exchange, currency may provide a headwind in the current year.
However, the current order book and market activity support the Boards expectation of making further progress in 2011.
