6 Chairmans statement SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Chairmans statement In difficult conditions, we have drawn on our many advantages not least our leading market positions, the strength of our local brands and the quality of our management to produce very good results.
Dear Shareholder, Adjusted earnings were 22% ahead of the prior year.
The increase reflects higher EBITA, lower finance costs, I am pleased to report a very good set of results, achieved a lower effective tax rate and a fall in the minority share of in difficult conditions as the global economy struggled profit, mainly due to the purchase of the 28.1% minority and consumer demand remained weak, particularly in interest in our Polish subsidiary, Kompania Piwowarska, in our more developed markets.
May 2009 in exchange for the issue of 60 million ordinary As I said last year, beer is a fairly resilient product and our shares.
Adjusted earnings per share of 161.1 US cents broad geographic footprint proved to be an advantage in were up 17% in the year.
that different countries were affected by the global economic The group generated free cash flow of US$2,010 million, crisis at different rates and to differing degrees.
This year, an improvement of US$1,913 million compared with in addition, we have benefited from managements ability the prior year.
This includes significant improvements in to reduce costs and selectively increase prices in order the management of working capital with a considerable to maximise revenues capitalising here on our strong contribution from the business capability initiatives market positions and leading local brands.
Results and dividend Capital expenditure for the period, including the purchase Total beverage volumes of 261 million hectolitres were of intangible assets, was US$1,528 million down in line with the prior year on an organic basis and lager US$619 million on the prior year after the completion volumes were level at 213 million hectolitres.
We made of several major projects.
Normalised EBITDA margin, share gains in many of our markets.
Group revenue including both dividends and revenue from MillerCoors, grew by 4%, driven by price increases in the prior and decreased by 40 bps to 20.2%.
Net debt decreased by US$311 million to US$8,398 million, Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EBITA reflecting the strong cash flow partly offset by adverse grew 6% on both an organic, constant currency and a currency translation.
The groups balance sheet was reported basis.
EBITA margin on an organic, constant further strengthened with the gearing ratio falling currency basis increased by 30 basis points bps to 16.7%.
Cost efficiencies were offset by increases in depreciation, The board has recommended a final dividend of 51 US higher pay costs and, in some markets, increased cents per share to be paid to shareholders on 13 August investment in brand and customer management.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 68 US Exceptional charges, primarily relating to our business cents, an increase of 10 cents 17% over the prior year.
capability programme, resulted in a fall of 1% in profit before tax to US$2,929 million.
Meyer Kahn Our assets Chairman The strength of our balance sheet gives us a major advantage in relation to our competitors.
That said, it does not reflect all the assets of the business.
One might also mention the strength of our local brands, the quality of our management, our skills at managing business partnerships and a key asset that is often undervalued our reputation.
Its the groups reputation the sum of all our strengths that ensures the trust of our stakeholders and gives us our licence to trade.
For this reason, its fundamental to our group vision to be the most admired company in the global beer industry.
We saw solid progress in this respect when Fortune Magazine published its 2010 list of the worlds most admired companies in March this year.
From seventh position in 2009, the Fortune survey now ranks us third in the worldwide beverage sector.
While were obviously pleased with this result, we remain determined to maintain this high ranking.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Chairmans statement 7 Share price 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2010 sterling 20 Source: Thomson Datastream 15 10 SABMiller International brewers index FTSE 100 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Investment Operational highlights The economic pressures of the past year have not Lager volumes in Latin America increased by 3% deflected us from our strategy.
Rather, they have underlined as economic conditions showed signs of easing and its value as we seek to gain maximum returns from our we gained or held share in the majority of our markets.
EBITA grew very strongly at 18% on a reported basis and 17% on an organic, constant currency basis as a result of Although our capital investment was lower this year pricing benefits, positive sales mix and cost productivity than last, weve continued selectively to add new brewing improvements.
capacity as emerging economies resume their growth, lifting demand for our products, and as more consumers In Europe, lager volumes declined by 5% on an organic move from informal home brews to commercial brands.
basis as beer markets contracted in difficult economic It has therefore been a busy year for brewery acquisitions conditions and governments in a number of key markets and new construction.
In China, for example, CR Snow imposed heavy increases in excise.
Nonetheless, through has bought three more breweries and built a further cost efficiencies and robust pricing, EBITA grew by 4% four.
In Africa in the past year, we invested in four new on an organic, constant currency basis.
Reported EBITA breweries and one soft drinks plant while two existing declined by 8% as central European currencies weakened.
breweries were expanded and upgraded.
Where we see Reported within the North America segment, MillerCoors opportunities on the African continent, we continue to 1 delivered pro forma EBITA growth of 13% despite a enter new markets and to acquire businesses producing sluggish US beer market impacted by continued adverse non-alcoholic beverages where these fit well with our economic conditions.
MillerCoors domestic sales to existing business.
wholesalers and retailers on a pro forma basis, were As we invest to meet future demand, its pleasing both down 2%, but revenue per hectolitre grew by 3%.
to see past investments producing good returns.
Our Most of our markets in Africa continued to grow, albeit Chinese joint venture, CR Snow, has started to reap the more slowly than in recent years.
Lager volumes grew cost synergies of earlier acquisitions in China and is now 6%, helped by strong performances in Mozambique, gaining economies of scale in procurement, operations Zambia and Uganda, and soft drinks volumes by 4% and routes to market.
Almost five years on from our on an organic basis.
While EBITA grew by 4% on an merger with Bavaria, the businesses in Colombia, organic, constant currency basis, reported EBITA was Peru, Ecuador and Panama have generated an attractive held back by currency weaknesses and increased by 1%.
return on the groups initial investment of US$7.8 billion announced in 2005.
EBITA from our Latin American In Asia, lager volumes increased organically by 7% business has grown at a compound annual rate of across the region and by 10% in China.
India saw a 16% over this period with margins rising by 320 bps.
14% fall in volumes due to regulatory issues and higher Since the MillerCoors joint venture began operations taxes.
EBITA on an organic, constant currency basis was in North America on 1 July 2008, it has delivered total level, while reported EBITA, which includes initial losses synergies of US$326 million with a further US$83 million in recent Chinese acquisitions, fell 12%.
in cost savings in areas such as production, procurement, In South Africa, where the market grew marginally, marketing and administration.
MillerCoors remains on lager volumes were 1% below the prior year.
Soft drinks track to achieve US$750 million in total synergies and volumes also declined by 1% as a result of the weak other cost savings by the end of the 2012 calendar year.
economic environment and unfavourable weather in the The group has embarked on a major business capability peak summer trading period.
Constant currency EBITA programme to simplify processes and reduce costs, so grew 2%, although margin declined slightly as pricing giving local management more time to focus on marketbenefits and fixed cost productivity were eroded by rising facing initiatives.
Back-office activities including finance, input costs and higher expenditure on marketing.
Thanks human resources and procurement will be streamlined to the strength of the rand against the US dollar, reported through global information processes and applications EBITA grew by 16%.
while front-office processes such as sales, distribution and supply chain management will benefit from common regional platforms.
The programme is on track to be completed by 2014, by which time we expect ongoing cost benefits of US$300 million a year.
In the current financial year, we have recognised US$342 million of 1 MillerCoors pro forma exceptional costs relating to the programme.
8 Chairmans statement SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Chairmans statement continued Rewarding our stakeholders identifies directors length of tenure as one factor a board should consider when deciding whether directors should Our strong performance, along with some recovery in be deemed independent.
We strongly believe the Codes global stock markets, has supported another rise in our nine-year cut-off point is arbitrary and does not place share price.
Over the 12 months to 31 March 2010, our sufficient weight on experience gained by a director while market capitalisation has grown from US$22,415 million on the board.
It is our firm view that a rigid application of to US$46,381 million, a rise of 107% compared with a this criterion, as advocated by some commentators, would 44% rise for the FTSE 100. not be in the interests of SABMiller or its shareholders.
Our growth around the world rewards not only the One board member who will be stepping down at this shareholders of SABMiller plc but also those of our years annual general meeting is Lord Fellowes, our Senior subsidiaries which are listed on local stock exchanges.
Independent Director and Chairman of our Corporate Shares in our Zambian Breweries plc subsidiary, for example, Accountability and Risk Assurance Committee CARAC.
have produced a compound annual growth rate of 21% Robert Fellowes has been a diligent and committed in constant currency since they were listed on the national director for the past 11 years.
We will miss his enormous stock exchange in September 1998, and have grown contribution and we wish him well in his retirement.
Subsidiaries in countries such role as Senior Independent Director will be taken by John as Tanzania have also grown substantially, to the benefit Manser, while Dr Dambisa Moyo will take his place as of local investors.
In another move to reward smaller stakeholders, During the year we were pleased to welcome Howard we announced in December 2009 that 8.45% of the Willard to the board as a non-executive director under shares in our South African subsidiary, The South African the terms of our agreement with our largest shareholder, Breweries Ltd SAB, would be placed under black Altria Group, Inc. ownership as part of our commitment to Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment in South Africa.
The On 1 May 2010 we welcomed Mark Armour as an so-called Zenzele transaction will create some 40,000 independent non-executive director and a member new shareholders among SAB employees and qualifying of the audit and remuneration committees.
Previously retailers two groups that play a central role in the countrys a partner at Price Waterhouse, Mark has been Chief long-term success.
The deal has also created a charitable Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier Group plc since 1996 foundation which will hold 18% of the shares to be issued and brings a wealth of experience in financial and accounting under the transaction and will use the dividend income matters.
His appointment is another step in the continuing for the benefit of the wider South African community.
renewal of the SABMiller board.
We have always argued that the best contribution we With members representing five continents, the SABMiller can make to the societies in which we operate is to run board has been recognised as one of the most internationally successful businesses.
Last year, an independent study diverse in the FTSE 100.
Its quality is matched by that of into SABMillers operations in Uganda and Honduras our executive team, exemplified when our Chief Executive, revealed that for every person we employ directly in Uganda, Graham Mackay, was named Business Leader of the a further 100 farmers and other workers depend on us Year by an independent group of CEOs at the CNBC for at least part of their livelihood.
In the more developed European Business Leaders Awards 2010.
The award Honduran economy, the figure is 33.
Where appropriate, cites his outstanding leadership and performance and we also contribute by sourcing raw materials from smallwe congratulate him on this well-deserved recognition.
scale, local suppliers and working with them to develop I would also like to pay tribute to our executives, managers the quality and type of materials we need.
Some 28,500 and staff whose skills and commitment have brought us smallholders are currently involved in programmes of this through a difficult year and helped to secure such impressive kind in Africa, India and Latin America.
In these and other results.
We are also grateful to our business partners and ways, we seek to encourage enterprise development in to you, our shareholders, for your continuing support.
our value chains and to stimulate the local economy.
As a responsible beer company, we have always been Outlook passionate about discouraging irresponsible drinking.
Although the economic environment began to improve To embed this ethos even more firmly into the business for some of our emerging market businesses in the latter and to make it a bigger part of everything we do, were part of the financial year under review, a broader recovery currently training all our employees to promote responsible in consumer spending is not expected before the second consumption in the workplace, at home and in the half of the current financial year.
Price increases will be community.
So far, more than 75% of our employees taken selectively, predominantly in the second half, and have undergone this training.
we expect raw material input costs for the year to be level with, or marginally down on, the prior year.
We will Corporate governance continue to implement our cost productivity initiatives We believe that effective corporate governance depends while increasing investment in our brands.
on the quality of the board and on members understanding The groups brand equities and its financial position of their role and responsibilities.
We are fortunate at remain strong and we are well positioned to take SABMiller in having board directors of the highest calibre, advantage of any improvement in trading conditions.
four of whom have served for all or most of the period since the companys London listing in 1999.
Meyer Kahn One principle of the Combined Code governing UK-listed Chairman companies is that the board should include an appropriate balance of independent non-executive directors.
