Chairmans statement We have continued to invest heavily in our Dear Shareholder Financial strength people agenda to ensure that we are well The international nature ofSage is a great placed totake advantage of the economic Overview strength and this year over 70% of revenue recovery and have continued to make and profitswere earned outside of the Against a tough market background, progress in improving our gender diversity UK.
Statutory pre-tax profit rose by 20% our business model has proved robust.
Today, one third of our top to 319.9m 2009: 267.4m, benefitting Our customers continue to rely upon us 200 leaders are female.
from a resilient business performance, as a trusted partner in helping them to run In October 2010, Guy Berruyer succeeded tight cost control and currency movements.
their business and, overthe past three years, Paul Walker as Chief Executive.
Paul started 800,000 new customers have joined us.
The Group remains highly cash generative at Sage in 1984 and was Chief Executive Byworking closely with our high quality with operating cash flow of 428.7m for16 years, making him one of the longest business partners and by supporting 2009: 357.6m, whichallowed us to serving Chief Executives in the FTSE 100. customers with locally based services reducenet debt to 219.8m 439.4m I would like to thank Paul for his huge andsolutions, we have continued to grow at 30 September 2009.
We refinanced contribution to Sage.
He built Sage from a our customer base around the world.
our bank facilities during the year, UK software business into the market Thishas helped us to navigate through raising US$300.0m of private placement leading international Group that it is today.
theseturbulent times and positionSage loan notes and signing a new five year Paul leaves a very strong management team wellfor future growth.
syndicated bank facility denominated and a resilient business, in good shape for US$271.0m and 214.0m total 357.4m.
We have traded well throughout this the years ahead.
We wish him well in his financial year and we have seen good future endeavours.
Dividend Having gone through a rigorous selection We produced 3% organic revenue growth Our consistently strong cash flows, process, I am delighted that Guy was offered in the second half of the year, compared robust balance sheet and recurring revenue the role of Chief Executive.
During his 13 year with a contraction of 2% inthe first half streams provide a strong foundation for career with Sage, Guy has led the successful and a contraction of 5% in the year ended our progressive dividend policy, whilst growth of our business in Mainland Europe 30 September 2009.
Our subscription ensuring that the Group can continue and, more recently, in Asia.
He has a strong revenues continue to grow, with renewal to maintain strong levels of organic and record of profit growth, both organically and rates maintained at 81% in the year ended acquisition-led investment.
As a result, we through the successful acquisition and 30 September 2010. are increasing thefull year dividend by 5% integration of companies.
He has a clear and Our strong, reliable cash flows have enabled to 7.80p pershare 2009: 7.43p per share, knowledgeable view of how Sage should us to maintain a robust balance sheet, with a proposed final dividend of 5.22p develop and has great ambition for the whilstallowing us both to pursue a per share 2009: 4.93p per share.
We are sure that he will succeed in progressive dividend policy and to continue driving Sage forward for the benefit of our to invest in customer service, new products customers, employees and shareholders.
People and our web strategy.
Our culture of On 1 December 2010, we announced In last years report, I stated that we had innovation means our products and changes to Sages Executive Committee and reduced our headcount in response to servicesare well positioned.
these are described in the Chief Executives thethen current and forecast economic review in this Report and Accounts.
The decisions we took were structure leverages the experience of our difficult for all of our people and it is to their current executives and brings through a new great credit that our business has responded generation of international leaders for Sage.
Our employee engagement The appointment of Guy and his new scores are at record levels and whilst we are management teamwill reinvigorate our in no way complacent, we believe that this business and position uswell to deliver reflects the focus we have upon our business further shareholder value and outstanding values Sage Guiding Principles.
In addition, software and services for our customers we have continued our efforts to bring The andpartners.
Sage Leadership Standard to life, a set of values which define clearly what we expect from our business leaders.
Underlying figures neutralise the impact of foreign exchange movements and exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2009 have been retranslated based onthe average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2010 of $1.56 1 and 1.15 1 to facilitate thecomparison of results.
The Sage Group plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 At the AGM in March 2011, Tim Ingramwill We work hard to ensure that the Board has Outlook stand down from the Board after nine years a full understanding of all our businesses Whilst the economic outlook remains as a non-executive director.
Tim has been throughout the world and, during the past uncertain, we are seeing signs of improving a great colleague and wonderful contributor year, a third of our Board Meetings were held markets for our customers, although there is to the Board and the wider business.
There is regular evaluation variation by geography.
These factors have We will miss his wise counsel enormously.
of the performance of the Board and its contributed to the revenue momentum members which, during the next year, will be experienced in the second half of our facilitated by expert third parties.
This year, UK Corporate financial year.
all the Board will be offering themselves for Governance Code re-election, as recommended by the new Our priorities are to improve organic The Sage Board has been heavily engaged UK Corporate Governance Code.
revenue growth, particularly within our North this year in a range of very important American business: to continue to progress The commitment and expertise of business matters.
As Chairman, I encourage our web strategy: and in growing our margin the Board was clearly demonstrated an open and supportive approach to all in the medium term at the same time as in the selection process for our new Board discussions and challenge is investing in high growth initiatives, such as Chief Executive during the past 12 months.
Our Board payment processing and Sage ERP X3.
Succession planning is treated very seriously reflects a wide range of experience and We have many good growth opportunities by the Board and the wealth of management backgrounds, which I believe to be essential across our business, and we look forward talent, from which we had to select our to the effective discharge of the Boards role with cautious optimism, whilst managing Chief Executive and the new Executive and responsibilities.
our costs prudently in these uncertain times.
Committee, is testament to the success of ourpreparation and processes.
Anthony Hobson Chairman Our customers continue to rely upon us as a trusted partner in helping them to run their business.
The Sage Group plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
