Executive Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder, Asian territories.
We introduced several new products to market in 2010: SDL BeGlobal a next generation Summary Performance statistical machine translation technology: SDL Trisoft We are delighted to report a year of strong strategic with enhanced DITA support: SDL Contenta S1000D progress, record revenue and excellent operating in the structured content management space: and we profit performance.
In the period we saw a steadily launched SDL Global Authoring Management System improving demand environment for our technology 2010 in Language Technologies.
We were particularly pleased with the We made two strategic acquisitions during the levels of cross-selling of products and services achieved year.
The acquisition of Language Weaver gives SDL during the year, delivering broader Global Information an industry leading position in statistical machine Management solutions that address our customers translation.
By further increasing the speed of strategic needs.
translation, we believe this acquisition will significantly We increased our strategic investments in 2010, increase the volume of content that companies can accelerating investment in innovation, research economically choose to translate.
The acquisition of and development, and supporting our growth in Xopus increases technical content creation possibilities 6 SDL Overview by facilitating content creation by non technical authors.
Both of these acquisitions further strengthen the SDL end-to-end content management offering.
The Xopus business is now fully integrated into our Structured Content Management Technologies business and is therefore reported as part of the Content Management Technologies operating segment.
Language Weaver is reported as part of our Language Technologies operating segment which is run as an integrated global business under common leadership.
The executive team was further strengthened with the appointment of Mark Reid as Chief Information Officer and Dennis van der Veeke as Chief Technology Officer, both key appointments.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Chairmans Statement continued Revenue for 2010 was 203.5 million 2009: 171.9 million.
Segmental Performance Operating profit before taxation and amortisation We continue to report the business in three operating of intangible assets PBTA for the period was segments in 2010 as our shareholders find this 35.4 million 2009: 29.8 million with profit before additional disclosure valuable.
Our operating segments taxation of 28.8 million 2009: 24.0 million.
Net are Content Management Technologies, Language cash in the business at the end of the period was Technologies and Language Services.
46.6 million 2009: 46.2 million after net cash Content Management Technologies outflow of 25.9 million due to acquisitions during contributing 45.0 million or 22% of revenue to the year.
the Group and 7.7 million or 22% of Group PBTA We are pleased to report double digit headline revenue 2009: contributing 33.2 million or 19% of revenue to growth in each of our operating segments, which the Group and 6.4 million or 22% of Group PBTA bears testament to the resilience of the business Overall revenue in this segment grew by 36%, 16% due to the economic cycle.
Headline Group revenue to acquisition, -1% due to foreign exchange and 21% growth comprised acquisition related growth of growth at constant currency.
We are delighted by the 4%, a negligible impact due to foreign exchange performance of this segment, which reflects strong and constant currency revenue growth of 14%.
cross leveraging from the rest of the SDL Group.
We finished the year strongly, particularly in our Web SDL Web Content Management Solutions performed Content Management business, where changes in well.
Both Europe and North America had strong organisational structure built positive momentum.
Structured Content In general, we are confident that the demand pipeline Management made exceptional progress in 2010, with in each operating segment remains robust moving the combination of traditional XyEnterprise strengths into 2011.
We have made excellent progress in crosswith SDL Trisoft continuing to be a potent combination selling solutions, the Content Management segment and market innovator.
We look to 2011 with confidence in particular, recording constant currency revenue in this business from a position of industry leadership growth of 21%, has been a prime beneficiary of this in technical document Xml publishing, component cross-selling approach.
We are very pleased with the content management and SDL LiveContent solutions.
two acquisitions, Xopus and Language Weaver, both now fully integrated from a leadership, systems and We were pleased to welcome as clients investing in execution perspective.
This rapid integration puts us Content Management Technology, Unilever, Atmel, in a good position to execute our growth strategy Affinion, Fidelity Investments, Saab, United Airlines and aspirations in these businesses in 2011.
Our operating cash flow from operations amounted Language Technologies to 27.1 million in 2010 2009: 30.1million.
We were contributing 33.9 million or 17% of revenue to unable to repeat the working capital inflow we saw the Group and 3.3 million or 9% of Group PBTA in 2009 when we significantly reduced receivable 2009: contributing 29.1 million or 17% revenue to days, however our average DSO has been marginally the Group and 3.5 million or 12% of Group PBTA improved in 2010 with strong exit revenues generating Overall headline sales growth was 17% in the higher receivables.
Our profit to cash conversion Language Technologies business of which 8% was due remains excellent.
Our balance sheet remains a to acquisition, currency impact was negligible and considerable source of competitive advantage and constant currency revenue growth was 9%.
comfort as we have no external debt.
At the end of We saw consistent demand stabilisation in the 2010 we had 46.6 million of cash on the balance Enterprise business and solid momentum build in sheet.
Given our confidence in future cash generation our desktop business in the second half reflecting and ability to sustain strategic and operational progress our demand generation initiatives and considerable the Board is recommending a maiden final dividend to expansion in China.
We have made significant progress the Annual General Meeting of 5.5 pence per ordinary integrating Language Weaver into the Language share.
This will not alter our strategy of pursuing strong Technologies business unit.
Language Weaver profitable growth but will provide a return to those performance versus equivalent period in 2009 was investors who value a nominal yield in addition to robust and we continue to invest heavily in statistical growth.
Our future dividend policy will be progressive.
8 SDL Overview 1 We are confident in our growth prospects and our long term potential to reward investors with continued profitable growth machine translation in order to rapidly expand We are committed to remain the innovator in the the addressable market for both commercial and Global Information Management space and look to a government sectors.
future which is about seamless product integrations and leading edge product innovation combined with Clients investing in Language Technologies in 2010 consistent execution and delivery.
The acquisition included Total, National Cancer Institute, Novartis, of Language Weaver and Xopus extend solution set European Patent Office, Avaya and TripAdvisor.
availability and should increase accessible market Language Services size and ability to penetrate.
More and more clients contributing 124.6 million or 61% of group are realising the power of combined use of our revenue and 25.2 million or 71% of Group PBTA.
Web Content Management, Structured Content 2009: contributing 109.6 million or 64% of group Management and Language Technologies.
We are also revenue and 19.8 million or 66% of Group PBTA committed to make each clients experience with SDL 2010 was a strong year for the Language Services an engaging and compelling one.
Significant account growth and new customer wins led to organic revenue growth of Outlook and Current Trading 14% with negligible currency impact.
The business Initial trading is positive in 2011 and in the absence of a made significant progress in North America and major economic reverse we are confident that 2011 will execution was strong in Asia against a strategic goal be another good growth year for SDL.
Economic signs of building position in Japan, China and Korea.
The are still variable in some segments but we are seeing a business had several significant new client wins in more sustained recovery in demand.
2010 including AstraZeneca, Dassault Systmes, Regus, We have made solid progress in integrating the two FlexLink and VMWare.
The business remains highly businesses acquired in 2010, and have strengthened profitable and cash generative and we have continued our executive management team.
We believe we to focus on effective global sourcing strategy and have a sound platform and the right strategy in place.
network optimisation in 2010, making two strategic We have no debt and our cash position gives us commitments to opening offices in Turkey and Chile.
solid opportunity to pursue further strategic growth Statistical machine translation is proving highly options, both organic and through acquisition, should complementary to our core language services offering, they arise.
driving efficiencies and competitive advantage.
We have an exciting year in prospect in 2011, with Global Information Management SDL Tridion 2011 a next generation Web Content Vision and Strategy Management product with strong integration to other In 2010 we made significant progress in building SDL technologies already released to market and an our end-to-end content management solutions exciting roadmap of innovation looking ahead.
and we have clear plans to leverage our broadened We are therefore confident in our growth prospects capabilities and offerings in 2011.
It is clear to us that and our long term potential to reward investors SDLs solutions can play a compelling role helping with continued profitable growth and strong our clients engage with their clients in a consistent shareholder returns.
way across multiple languages and channels, thereby optimising the experience of their own clients through Mark Lancaster content use.
We build brand equity for our clients and Executive Chairman accelerate globalisation and roll out of new products.
SDLs vision is aligned to macro-trends such as growth of the internet, the accelerating adoption of cloudbased computing, the globalisation of businesses, and the continued rapid growth of Asian economies.
Within our client base and internally at SDL there is a rapid movement towards live and collaborative content, personalisation and targeting and we have a range of scalable endto-end solutions to meet these needs.
