Section 3 Chairmans Statement their values but it is much more demanding to ingrain these in the culture of the organisation, especially one employing some 70,000 people around the world, such that one sees them being lived each day in the decisions that management make, the service provided to customers, and the manner in which the business deals with its people.
Shortly after taking the chair, I attended our 2009 Pulse Awards that recognised individuals and teams who have excelled during the preceding year in living our Governing Principles, focused on achievements in innovation, commitment, impact and leadership.
Those who won awards were impressive testament to the many at Serco for whom their job is much more than just turning up for work each morning.
Examples were our staff at Lowdham Grange prison, whose projects helped forge new bonds between offenders and their children and thereby reduce the probability of re-offending, and those at our Family Services business unit in North America, who gave up weekends and In my first statement since holidays to build a Licensed Clinical Social Worker practice to help members being appointed Chairman of the US armed forces cope with issues in May 2010, I thought I might such as post-traumatic stress disorder.
give some initial impressions of our business.
Complementing this ethos of public service, I have also found an equally strong Since joining, I have sought to gain as broad entrepreneurial drive to deliver against as possible an exposure to and understanding objectives, create value and develop of the diverse activities that now comprise innovative solutions to problems.
Travelling around the United States, a can do mentality but one built on the the Middle East, India and Australia, as well foundations of a strong management system as extensively within the UK, I have visited that ensures rigorous analysis of potential over 30 of our sites across very different opportunities and their inherent risks, business streams such as defence, offender meticulous implementation of the transition management, education, transport and and transformation stages of new contracts, health.
Before being approached to join the and effective governance of ongoing Board of Serco, I obviously knew the name activities.
In 2010 we implemented the but had only limited awareness of the range Barclays Cycle Hire scheme for Transport for of activities undertaken by the Group, from London: in just 11 months from being granted setting Greenwich Mean Time at the National the contract to the launch on 30 July, Physical Laboratory to providing air trafc we had 5,000 specially-designed bicycles control services at Dubai International Airport.
in place across 315 sites, together with the supporting infrastructure and membership Despite this diversity, what I have found are and billing systems.
very strong unifying competencies and values that set the company apart.
Having served for Sercos breadth is, in my view, one of our many years as a non-executive director of great strengths.
We now have significant government departments, I recognise clearly interests outside the UK our Americas the public service ethos a deep-seated business turned over 0.95bn in 2010, whilst desire to make a difference within the Serco in Australia we are a major employer.
This staff I have met in prisons, schools and geographic reach allows us to benefit from hospitals to name a few.
Many businesses the strong economic growth being talk about guiding principles and publish experienced in Australia, the Middle East 16 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3a.
indd 16 14 03 2011 14:19 and India, to offset the more challenging backdrop I am pleased to be able to propose examples of the contributions that we environment of the UK and, to a lesser a final dividend for 2010 of 5.15p per share, make, can be found in our Corporate degree, the US.
Equally our breadth of an increase of 17.0% on last years final, Responsibility Review on our website.
activities allows us to take advantage of which would bring our total dividend We are also very aware of the impact developing thinking in different countries for 2010 to 7.35p per share, 17.6% up of what we do on our environment and towards delivering services to the public, on 2009.
Over the past five years, Serco considerations as to how best to lessen outsourcing and contracting.
When has delivered a total shareholder return this impact are an integral part of the proposing for new opportunities, we can consistently ahead of the average for planning of each of our activities.
reference existing successes elsewhere, the FTSE 100. a good example being the contribution our Serco is a learning organisation, seeking hospital services activities in the UK made Not only has the last year seen the retirement to improve what it does by listening to to our selection as preferred bidder for the of Kevin Beeston, my predecessor as feedback from its stakeholders and its substantial Fiona Stanley hospital contract Chairman, but 2010 also marked the people.
If we make mistakes, we put them in Perth, Western Australia our first major retirement of both Margaret Ford, our Senior right and learn from them.
The Board is health activity in Australia.
We recognise, Independent Director since 2003, and Tom no exception and each year we undertake in the way in which we have designed our Corcoran, who had been a Non-Executive an evaluation of what the Board does management structure, the value that can Director for the last three years, bringing and how it does it, this evaluation being be created by people across different parts specic US insight to the Board.
We owe facilitated externally every third year.
of our business working together to share much to all three for their contribution to the As Chairman, I will also undertake an experience, skills and ideas.
When visiting successful progress of Serco during their annual development review with each our immigration and offender management time on the Board, and in particular to Kevin Director and my own performance will sites in Australia, I met employees with who started with the company in 1985 and be appraised by my Board colleagues experience in our UK prisons and detention was progressively Finance Director, Chief led by David Richardson, who takes over centres, some on secondment, others who Executive and Executive Chairman, prior the role of Senior Independent Director.
had decided to take their careers forward in to his assuming the role of Non-Executive that region.
Such inter-operability played a Chairman in 2007.
May I take this opportunity May I nish by thanking everyone who has significant role in Serco being awarded a to extend them our best wishes for the future.
contributed to making Serco the business NZ 300m prison management contract in it is today: I am very proud to have been New Zealand.
At the same time I would like to welcome invited to become its Chairman.
In such a multiWhilst the financial crisis has imposed faceted business, I believe it is important Alastair Lyons CBE short-term constraints on Government to plan ahead for succession to key roles, Chairman spending in the UK, I am confident in bringing individuals on to the Board early our substantial pipeline of identied bid to allow them to learn the business ahead opportunities across the world and strong of assuming particular functions.
David order book, hence maintaining our forward Richardson has chaired our Audit Committee guidance.
We have sought to be innovative in since 2003 and will, therefore, come to the our thinking as to how to derive better service end of his allotted nine years in 2012.
An example is our approach to therefore delighted that Paul has agreed the welfare to work market in the UK, in which to join us and assume the role of audit chair we partner with small companies and following Davids retirement.
Paul is very well charities with vital local knowledge and qualied for this, having been Group Chief expertise, to deliver tailored solutions to the Financial officer of Experian, the FTSE 50 needs of individual benefit recipients in order global information services company, since to get them back into work quickly and 2001.
We will shortly return the Board remain off benefit.
The underlying need to to its previous size once we complete the deliver frontline public services more current recruitment process.
efficiently and economically will, I believe, create significant new opportunities for As an employer of some 70,000 people our business.
across the world, Serco is deeply conscious of its responsibilities to the communities in Our achievements in 2010, as discussed in which employees live and work, and we seek detail by Chris Hyman in his Chief Executives to support them in their involvement in Statement, are ones of which Chris and his activities to help those less fortunate than executive team, our wider management and they.
In this context I would like to say how employees can be justiably proud.
Growing delighted we all were to see the recent award our business by 9.0% and our profit before of a CBE to Chris Hyman for both his tax by 20.8% during this period demonstrates charitable work and his business the resilience of our business model and achievements.
A summary of our approach the capability of our people.
Against this to corporate responsibility, and some Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 17 Serco AR10 Section3a.
