4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility performance We develop, manage and operate Severn Trent for long term sustainable benefits for all our stakeholders.
I am proud to be able to say that 20% of Severn Trent Waters total energy requirements were met from our own renewable sources in 2009 10, and our target is to grow this to 30%.
This years performance has consolidated our leadership position in the sector on generation from renewable sources.
Meanwhile, our continued focus on creating and maintaining a safe working environment resulted in a 17% reduction in group lost time incidents during 2009 10.
This focus on health and safety has in turn driven improved processes and efficiency.
Board Gordon Fryett, Director of Property at Tesco, was appointed to the boards of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited from 1July 2009, and his experience has already added value to the boards activities.
Sir John Egan, Chairman On 10 May 2010 we announced the appointment of Andy Duff as Chairman designate of Severn Trent.
He brings with him the As this report covers the last full year of my tenure as Chairman of experience of running utilities and other essential infrastructure Severn Trent Plc, I am pleased to report on yet another year of businesses at UK and international level, and I wish him significant improvement.
We faced the challenges of the coldest every success.
winter for 30 years and an economic environment which remains As I report on page 35, we have set out our strong commitment to challenging, yet Tony Wray, our Chief Executive, and his team have good governance at Severn Trent and have put in place solid delivered substantially increased group profit before interest, tax foundations for the next period.
We have continued to attain higher standards through process improvements, development of Outlook supporting technology and systems, and the training and I am pleased to confirm that we have delivered our planned development of our people.
operating costs savings over the past year, and delivered our capital programme for the AMP4 period.
Building on our track record of continuous improvement, the board has overseen the progression of Severn Trent Water from the final By accelerating our new programmes ahead of AMP5, we have year of AMP4 to embarking on the next five year programme AMP5.
ensured Severn Trents plans are well advanced.
Innovation has been a key theme in completing the latter part of our AMP4 At a professional and personal level, it is particularly gratifying to programme and will be central to meeting our targets during have presided over five years during which we have moved from the next regulatory period: we have further developed our being a business with a number of serious problems to overcome, one supply chain with our contractors and suppliers, creating to a company recognised as offering good service, continuous shared experience, knowledge and offices to deliver our improvement and well placed to deliver further advances.
This year, Tony and our employees achieved upper quartile Through our focus on continuous improvement, we plan to put performance in nine of our 20 Key Performance Indicators.
Severn Trent Water ahead of the rest of the industry in operating Our dedicated employees have engaged in a range of activities efficiency by 2015, with customers still benefiting from the lowest which have helped to accelerate our efficiency programmes and average bills in England and Wales.
achieved tangible improvements in customer service, sewer flooding reduction, health and safety performance and water quality.
Meanwhile, Severn Trent Services overcame a difficult economic environment and delivered improved results during the second half We have succeeded in delivering this performance at the same of the year.
The company continues to concentrate on higher time as offering the lowest average water and sewerage bills in growth and higher margin market segments where our water and England and Wales.
The cost of all Severn Trent water and waste waste water products and services meet a significant need.
services is, on average, less than 83p per day, per household, with bills falling by 0.72% in 2010 11 and set to decrease by 4% in total As I prepare to hand over to a new Chairman, I believe we are on over the next five years.
the threshold of great change across the water sector be it within companies, among regulators or within the policy framework which These advances in our regulated business are complemented by shapes the industry and its conduct.
Now is the time to change the expertise we have across global markets through Severn Trent course while preserving the achievements of 20 successful years Services, where our Blueprint for growth will shape sustainable of water privatisation.
growth in the years ahead.
I will leave with the belief that longer term, our operational Group results excellence, low cost base, geography and the growing expertise Group profit before tax, gains losses on financial instruments and of Severn Trent Services as our non-regulated business gives exceptional items was 338.4 million 2009: 273.5 million.
Group confidence that Severn Trent is well placed to take advantage of profit before tax was 334.4 million 2009: 167.6 million.
the opportunities that change will bring.
The board is proposing a final dividend of 45.61 pence 2009: 41.05 pence to be paid on 30 July 2010.
This would give a total dividend of 72.32 pence per ordinary share, an increase of 7.4%.
