Year in Review Chairmans Statement The Board is confident that the Group can deliver real growth in shareholder value over the medium term Adrian Auer it has been a very challenging year for the waste industry, However, on 8 March 2010 Carlyle indicated that it would with all the major players reporting reductions in revenue reduce any final offer it might make to 120p.
in response and profitability as the sharp downturn in economic activity the Board were unanimous in rejecting what they believed reduced the amount of waste produced.
in mainland Europe to be a material undervaluation of Shanks and discussions this resulted in significant over capacity in incineration with Carlyle were terminated.
which contributed to a sharp downward pressure on prices in Solid waste.
Throughout the engagement with Carlyle the sole objective of the Board was to secure for shareholders a price that in addition to adjusting to these difficult market conditions, in its opinion and that of our advisors, reflected the true during the year the Company has also successfully navigated value of the Company.
we were not able to achieve this its way through a number of significant corporate challenges.
and regretfully, in discharging this duty to shareholders, significant advisory costs were incurred and the senior Despite the uncertainties brought about by the credit management of the Company were diverted from the squeeze, which continued for some months, at the day-to-day demands of the business for an extended period.
beginning of 2009 the Groups medium term banking facility was re-negotiated.
This created the platform to However, the Board is confident that the Group can deliver strengthen our capital structure and in June 2009 the real growth in shareholder value over the medium term.
Group completed a Rights issue which was successful Shanks is a well managed Group with good strategic in raising net proceeds of 66.9m.
The Board would positioning in the evolving European waste markets.
we like to thank shareholders for their support for the have maintained investment through this recession and the issue which achieved an acceptance rate of 96%.
compelling regulatory and legislative drivers remain in place.
On 7 December 2009 the Board announced that it had Financial Performance received an unsolicited and highly conditional approach from a private equity firm, subsequently identified as the in line with declining waste volumes, and the pricing Carlyle Group, valuing the Company at 135p per share.
pressures in mainland Europe, underlying profit before Although the Board believed strongly that a price higher tax fell by 24% to 33.2m, on revenues down 0.2%.
than 150p was a more appropriate reflection of the Groups Given the severity of the downturn and our relatively value, following consultation with major shareholders the high exposure to construction markets, this represents Board agreed to provide Carlyle with detailed due diligence a commendable outcome, with the worst effects of the access, in order to support an improved offer price.
recession mitigated by reducing the cost base and tight control of cash resources.
3p total dividend per share for the year Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 14 YEAR iN REViEw Shanks Group RIDDOR accident rate per 100,000 employees Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations 5000 4000 3000 2000 6% reduction in number of 1000 reportable accidents 0 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 while adapting to this recessionary environment the Corporate Governance Group has remained focused on its long term strategic The Board continues to place great emphasis on corporate goals and during the year the Group invested 30m in governance best practice.
The Companys Articles of growth projects.
These investments, together with the Association were amended at the last AGM in order to higher operational gearing resulting from the reductions in provide for the annual re-election of all Non-executive the cost base, will enhance our ability to grow earnings as Directors including the Chairmen of our Board Committees markets recover.
Further amendments are being proposed to our Articles at this years AGM in compliance with the final Financial Position provisions introduced by the Companies Act 2006.
Despite the impact of the recession on our profitability, through the careful stewardship of the Groups cash Corporate Responsibility resources and with the benefit of the proceeds from the The Group continues to increase its focus on corporate Rights issue, gearing remained well within our target of responsibility.
During the year the Group published its less than 2.5 times EBiTDA.
first Group Corporate Responsibility Report which set out nine clear commitments the Group is making to Dividend improve our corporate responsibility performance.
in Underlying earnings per share for the year was 6.5p.
this years report we will publish progress against those Consistent with the dividend policy set out at the time of the commitments and set out some quantified targets for Rights issue, the Board will be recommending a final dividend carbon avoidance, employee wellbeing and recycling and of 2.0p per share.
Looking forward, it is the Boards intention recovery rates.
to pursue a progressive dividend policy within a range of 2.0 to 2.5 times cover over the medium term.
The waste management industry remains a potentially hazardous place to work and we operate strict standards People of health and safety throughout the Group.
During the year the Group was successful in reducing the number it is to the great credit of all the employees of the Company that during a year of unprecedented adverse of reportable accidents by 6%.
we also adopted our Vision Zero which aims to stimulate a culture of continuous market conditions, and through the uncertainty caused by the approach from the Carlyle Group, their dedication improvement and a relentless commitment to managing out all avoidable accidents.
and focus has been undiminished.
Once again, the Board wishes to record its sincere appreciation for this continued commitment to the future of the Company.
i would also like to take this opportunity to thank my Board colleagues for their commitment and wise counsel in what has been a particularly eventful year.
Adrian Auer As i reported last year we were pleased to welcome Chris Chairman Surch as Group Finance Director in May 2009. i am very pleased to report that Chris has settled in quickly and is making a valuable contribution both to the executive management team and the Group Board.
15 RIDDOR rate YEAR iN REViEw Year in Review Chief Executives Statement In the face of some very challenging economic conditions, we have made good progress on the delivery of our key priorities and delivered a robust performance Tom Drury The last twelve months have proved eventful for Shanks Financial Performance with the Rights issue and the unsolicited approach from Underlying profit before tax fell by 10.7m 24% to the Carlyle Group absorbing a significant amount of 33.2m on revenues down 0.2%.
The profit impact of the management time.
Throughout the year however, i have recession is estimated at 20-25m and includes lower been mindful that these corporate activities must not allow volumes, lower recyclate prices and pricing pressure not us to be deflected from the need to maintain momentum offsetting underlying cost increases.
in addition to the towards our short and medium term goals in what are recession the business has been impacted by the harsh extremely competitive and rapidly changing markets.
weather conditions and the decline in Belgian Landfill following the increase in taxes on 1 January 2010.
To we have a clear strategy based on our vision of Shanks mitigate the above we have delivered on the previously becoming Europes leading provider of sustainable waste announced 10m cost programme, made additional management solutions through investment in recycling, savings through lower waste disposal costs of 10m organic processing and UK PFi projects.
The introduction and improved the margins within PFi.
of green energy subsidies for organic technologies from Toronto to Amsterdam and the increasing use of landfill Furthermore we have maintained a tight control of bans and rising taxes confirm the compelling industry the cash resources through strong working capital drivers upon which our strategy is based.
The opening of management and lower maintenance capital expenditure.
Europes largest industrial wet anaerobic digestion facility in the port of Amsterdam reinforces Shanks leading while adapting to this recessionary environment, the position in this rapidly growing market.
Group has remained focused on its long term strategic goals and during the year the Group invested 30m in As evidence of the value being created in our PFi growth projects.
These investments, together with the activities, the Board has for the first time this year higher operational gearing resulting from the reductions in published a Directors valuation of its existing PFi the cost base, will enhance our ability to grow earnings as portfolio.
Recent improvements in the operational markets recover.
performance of existing projects allow us to identify a valuation of 65m to 80m.
Progress during the year At the Rights issue a number of near term priorities Together with the steady pursuit of our medium term goals were identified and i am pleased to report good progress we are focused on delivering in the near term.
Against against them: the backdrop of a deep recession exacerbated by the coldest winter in Europe for thirty years this has proved to be a challenging year.
Nevertheless, the overall Group performance was creditable and compares well with our European peers.
20m cost savings Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 16 YEAR iN REViEw Five year Revenue Five year Revenue EBITDA margin 20 800 15 600 10 400 5 200 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2006 Reduce debt and hold below 2.5 times EBITDA 2.
Develop our infrastructure further to support sustainable waste management The net debt to EBiTDA ratio was 1.8 times at the end in organics we commissioned a new 100,000 tonnes per of March 2010. annum composting facility in Ottawa and this is producing good quality compost from municipal household waste.
we Achieve cost savings of 10m per annum also started construction work on our first UK organics Savings of 10m achieved with a further 10m of savings plant, an anaerobic digestion plant in Cumbernauld in waste disposal costs.
Scotland, which is expected to commission this Autumn.
Finally we made very good progress with the flagship Reduce maintenance capex as a percentage of Greenmills project in the port of Amsterdam which will be depreciation to around 50% operational in June and will process 100,000 tonnes per Target achieved with an actual outcome of 53% 96% annum of organic waste through anaerobic digestion and in 2008 09.
300,000 tonnes per annum of waste water.
Further phases of the project could see the production of high quality fertiliser Make targeted divestments of non core assets and improve operating cash flow pellets and the production of bio ethanol from organic waste.
Avondale landfill joint venture sold for 27m of which in recycling, we have made further upgrades to our 21m has been received.
The sale of PFi equity was recycling solid recovered fuel plant in Ghent to increase interrupted by the Carlyle approach and the Board is now its recycling rate and have completed most of the work on evaluating the most appropriate time to sell.
our new 150,000 tonnes per annum recycling centre which Maintain investment in our focused growth strategy will open in Glasgow in the Autumn.
30m of growth capex was invested this year and it we remain active bidders for UK PFi projects which has remained a very high priority for the Group that will help the UK Government meet its landfill diversion we continue to invest in our strategy.
work has started on the mechanical biological implementing the key projects is highlighted below.
treatment MBT plants in our recently signed Cumbria contract.
we have moved successfully through the short These near term priorities have run in parallel with listing stages of a number of MBT opportunities and after progress towards the five strategic objectives i set when a couple of early disappointments in our energy-fromi joined as Group Chief Executive: waste partnership with wheelabrator Technologies inc, we have secured some strong positions in that market as 1.
Invest to drive organic growth where returns are greatest well.
with Shanks in the final four bidders or better in six opportunities we remain confident of meeting our goal of Organic revenue declined by 5% as a consequence of the economic downturn.
Returns from new projects began securing 1.5m tonnes under management.
to contribute to trading profits and we continue to see a number of new projects within our strategic focus able to generate returns in excess of our target of 15%.
