8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:26 Page 2 2 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Chairmans review Continuing to provide best-in-class products that provide high value.
Matthew Emmens, Chairman 2010 will not go down as the easiest year for the Shire has embarked on an aggressive pharmaceutical industry.
The world is ageing, healthcare internationalization campaignopening new offices costs are soaring, a recessionary global economy around the world, acquiring European companies such put enormous strains on public and personal budgets, as Movetis, and laying the foundation for the launch and payors turned increasingly to low-cost generics of products for diseases not well known or not well and to those branded products with proven societal treated.
What is behind these developments?
What emerging trends has Shire The pharmaceutical industry is a global industry, and it is the been closely monitoring, and why?
responsibility of companies like Shire to respond effectively Shire is paying careful attention to the rising pressure to physicians, patients, and payors all around the world.
on global healthcare budgets, the higher standards set Shire is taking an approach to growth that is appropriate to by regulatory authorities, and the fact that pharmaceutical its size and missionleveraging the international presence discovery itself grows increasingly more challengingtrends it has already gained through its work with patients with that are not new, but that certainly are accelerating.
Shire rare orphan diseases such as Gaucher disease, Hunter is looking at how smaller companies like itself can continue syndrome and Fabry disease and scaling up as appropriate to take the right risks and to operate with the efficiencies that to serve patients with conditions ranging from attention the environment demands.
Shire continues to recognize that deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD to ulcerative colitis.
blockbuster products are growing harder and harder to come by and that ever increasing promotional spending cannot Shire has proven its ability to internationalize effectively be the future.
For Shire, the key to success continues to take advantage of internal capabilities and recently hired to be smaller niche markets and targeted therapeutics.
new talent to make the most of its pipeline, know-how, and existing portfolio.
com Review of our business 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:26 Page 3 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3 2010 highlights Total revenues up 15% to $3.5 billion Core product sales up $700m 34% Total product sales exceeded $3 billion for the first time Young and balanced portfolio and a strong pipeline Product sales excluding ADDERALL XR.
For the past several years, pharmaceutical companies What talents resources strategies does Shire have worked hard to define the word valueputting bring to this new era?
Why are we confident in the increasing emphasis on health economics and health companys future?
technology assessments and broadening the range of Shire continues to be both intuitive in its ability to visualize products solutions offered to patients and physicians.
and adapt to a changing world and scientific in its ability In 2010, the emphasis on value grew even stronger.
to discover and support the right opportunities.
find a pharmaceutical company that is flexible, innovative, Value is ultimately defined by the marketsby customers.
and opportunistic all at the same timea company that Its not about a price but rather about the relative value that can achieve 28% growth, in operating income, in an era a patient, a government, or an insurance company sees like this, a company whose people think like entrepreneurs, in a product or service.
The tough environment that we find a company that continually evolves its business model.
This either means low price Shire is fortunate to have the leadership of a strong, or high value meaning the product is worth the price.
committed management team and a Board of Directors As a proprietary company, Shire must, therefore, commit whose members ask thoughtful questions and seek to continuing to provide best-in-class products that provide meaningful answers.
The culture of openness facilitates high value.
Shire has always been smart about this value question Shire visualized a tough future several years ago: it planned smart about producing best-in-class products, smart about for it and continues to execute effectively.
The results making sure that it is developing products people need and achieved this year once again demonstrate the wisdom payors can finance.
Companies that are unable to produce of Shires business model.
value will continue to be marginalized in the coming years.
