04 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CHAIRMAn'S StAteMent SIGs performance in 2010 was a tale of two halves, albeit with a similar beginning and end to the year.
As 2010 progressed, the end markets in which SIG operates gradually stabilised.
sigs performance in 2010 was a tale of two halves, albeit with a similar beginning Leslie van fide walle nonexecutive chairman and end to the year.
Adverse weather conditions across europe curtailed construction site activity during the first quarter and also lead to challenging market conditions towards the end of the year.
however, as 2010 progressed, the end markets in which sig operates gradually stabilised.
Across the group, the pattern of recovery during the year was uneven: individual countries improved at different rates, with some segments and geographies still to fully level out.
in our major markets of the uk, france and germany, residential construction levels turned modestly positive from a low base.
the rate of decline in private sector nonresidential construction activity slowed in h2 2010, while public sector construction work continued to benefit from government investment programmes.
Reported group sales were down 2% for the year and in constant currency were down 0.3%.
however, improving trading conditions resulted in a 2.3% advance in H2 2010 reported sales over the same period in 2009 on a constant currency basis.
HIGHlIGHtS gross margins in h2 2010 were slightly ahead of those achieved in h1 2010, in markets which remained highly competitive, although they finished the year overall down 0.2% compared to 2009 at 26.0% 2009: 26.2%.
end markets gradually stabilising as the year progressed Underlying operating profit was 76.1m 2009: 80.9m.
Underlying net finance costs reduced by 33.0% to 13.6m 2009: 20.3m, leaving underlying profit the group remained focused on its cost before tax at 62.5m 2009: 60.6m.
Underlying basic earnings per share reduced to 7.2p 2009: 9.0p.
saving and restructuring programme New 250 m bank debt facility signed As a result of non-underlying charges totalling 143.3m 2009: 115.9m the Group recorded a total loss before tax of 80.8m 2009: Loss of 55.3m.
Including these on favourable terms charges, basic earnings per share amounted to a loss of 13.0p 2009: loss per share 9.7p.
GLossaRy of teRms the group remained focused on its cost saving and restructuring programme, underlying is before the amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment and implemented further measures to improve working capital and reduce capital charges, restructuring costs and gains and losses on derivative expenditure in line with our objective of optimising cash flow and reducing net debt.
our intense focus on cash management continued throughout the year.
A combination of good trading cash flows, strong working capital management and a tight rein on capital expenditure produced good cash conversion.
net debt decreased by 69.5m to 185.0m 254.5m at 31 December 2009. Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts 05 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RefinanCinG empLoyees In November the Board took the strategic decision to refinance its UK relationship our employees have responded outstandingly to the task of returning sig to bank debt.
The Group has recently signed a new 250m four year revolving credit growth, and on behalf of the board and shareholders i would like to thank them facility with four banks on favourable terms as follows: all for their contribution.
250m 4 year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility dividends Pricing Margin on LIBOR between 150 and 187.5 bps at 1.0x to 2.0x leverage the board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy and given that covenants markets are now beginning to stabilise, it believes that it is appropriate to announce interest cover 3x its intention to declare a dividend with the 2011 interim results.
leverage 3x Fixed charge cover 1.75x outLooK demand trends overall in the groups sectors and countries of operation are Three of the banks Barclays, Lloyds and RBS are longstanding lenders to the expected to continue to stabilise during the coming year.
group, whilst the fourth, hsbc, introduces a new relationship.
the board expects to see 2010s modest growth trend in residential building upon signing of the new facility, the groups existing uk bank facilities were continuing in 2011 and the decline in private nonresidential construction levelling replaced and the remaining borrowings were repaid from cash held on deposit.
out in h1 2011. however, government expenditure cuts are expected to cause the groups existing private placement notes remain in place with maturities public sector new construction activity to decline as the year progresses, ranging from 2011 to 2018. counteracting mild growth in the private sector, particularly in the uk.
This new four year 250m facility will ensure that the Group maintains a conservative Trading in the first two months of 2011 was in line with managements expectations level of headroom and provide funds for selective investment over the medium term.
and well ahead of the particularly weak, weatheraffected comparative sales levels of last year.
BoaRd As announced on 13 january 2011, les tench retired on 31 january 2011. i would While maintaining a firm control on operating costs and working capital, the Group like to take this opportunity to thank les for his leadership of the board since his will continue to make carefully selected organic investments, notably in the area of appointment as Non-Executive Chairman in May 2004.
He leaves with the Group renewables and carbon reduction, and in further controlled expansion of its branch in good shape, with a strong balance sheet and excellent long term prospects.
we network in both the uk and mainland europe.
wish him every success in the future.
following my appointment as nonexecutive director on 1 october 2010 last year, i was delighted to accept the invitation to the board believes that sig is well positioned to make progress through 2011. replace les as nonexecutive chairman, and i look forward to leading the board through the next stage of the groups development.
vanda murray resigned as a nonexecutive director of the company with effect from 16 march 2011. vanda is also a nonexecutive director of carillion plc and her resignation is pursuant to carillion plcs offer for eaga plc and her future potential conflict of interest as a result of that transaction in respect of SIGs energy LesLie van fide waLLe management business.
i would like to thank vanda for her valuable contribution to ChaiRman the Board since her appointment in July 2009.
I can also confirm that we are in the process of seeking to appoint a new independent nonexecutive director in order that the company will return to compliance with code provision A.
3.2 of the combined code on corporate governance.
06 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2010 buSIneSS RevIeW SIG plc is a leading supplier of specialist products to professionals in the building, construction and related industries, with 748 trading sites throughout the UK and Ireland and Mainland europe and employed 11,400 people as at 31 December 2010. this business Review has been prepared by the board solely for the members Chris davies chief executive of sig plc.
it is intended to provide shareholders with a summary of the development, performance and financial position of the Group for 2010.
It also provides details of the main trends and factors underlying the years results and which are likely to affect future performance and describes the groups business and its key objectives, strategies, values and resources, together with the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
A cautionary comment relating to forward looking statements is provided on page 31. intRoduCtion to siG sig plc is a leading supplier of specialist products to professionals in the building, construction and related industries, with 748 trading sites throughout the UK and Ireland and Mainland Europe and employed 11,400 people as at 31 December 2010.
Founded in 1957 in Sheffield, UK, SIG has grown from a single site insulation distribution business into a multinational specialist supplier operating in four different Gareth davies finance director market sectors.
The Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange in May 1989 and is a constituent member of the FTSE 250 index, listed within the Support services sector.
On 16 March 2011, the share price closed at 1.211.
At this date there were 590,829,339 shares in issue, giving a market capitalisation at that date of 715m.
siGs oRGanisationaL stRuCtuRe sigs operations are managed on a countrybycountry basis.
within each country there is dedicated divisional management focusing on each market sector.
this is critical to the success of the business, ensuring that focus is provided to the specific requirements of the customer and the supply chain required to service the customer.
Back office functions such as HR, IT, finance, property and fleet management are provided on a countrybycountry basis and are shared across business units in each GLossaRy of teRms country where it is appropriate and economic to do so.
underlying is before the amortisation of acquired intangibles, impairment charges, restructuring costs and gains the parent company of the group, sig plc, oversees and supports the strategic and losses on derivative financial instruments.
development of each business via the activities of the group board, the corporate development department and the group finance department.
trading cash is defined as cash flow from operations divided conversion by underlying operating profit.
Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts 07 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 siGs Business modeL siGs aCtivities sig is the market leader in most of the specialist markets in which it trades.
specialist sig is primarily a distributor handling and supplying specialist products manufactured markets are characterised by the need to hold a broad and comprehensive range by other companies.
in markets where the supply chain requires bespoke products of stock, supported by technical advice and extensive service and delivery capability.
to be made and supplied direct to the end user, sigs route to market has been by manufacturing products for its specialist customer contractors to fit.
SIG manufactures sigs leading position in specialist markets has enabled the groups sales growth partition systems and doorsets in the uk and fabricates certain custom products across to outperform each of its markets in recent years.
fabrication involves adding value by cutting, reshaping or attaching two or more core products together.
the largest fabrication activities are the cutting and specialist markets provide opportunity for superior growth as they tend to be more shaping of industrial insulation, the cutting and processing of glass products and the fragmented in nature and require technical product and application knowledge assembly of roofing panels.
which provide entry barriers to the general merchanting community.
sigs strategy in fragmented markets is to build scale and market share whilst generating superior in addition, in the uk sig also installs loft and cavity wall insulation in residential properties.
purchasing power and achieving economies of scale in back office activities thereby delivering superior returns.
sig operates under a wide variety of trading names.
many of these brands are widely recognised throughout their respective market sectors or countries as the the supply of specialist products requires a proactive sales approach rather than leading supplier of specialist products and services to the construction trade.
a passive retail approach together with a more collaborative process of supply chain management.
siGs pRoduCts insulation and Building environments exteriors interiors specialist Construction products thermal insulation Flat roofng Suspended ceilings Mechanical engineering fxings and accessories Roofing membranes Fire protection partitioning Fixings and fastenings single ply Acoustic insulation Doors and doorsets Groundwork products Liquid waterproofing Dry lining Category lighting shoring equipment mastic asphalt R efrigeration and cold storage Dry lining Roof lights and domes geotextiles Flooring Fire protection green roofs Reinforcement products Installation of insulation Insulation Roof paving systems ground stabilisation products High temperature insulation Architectural glass Slating and tiling temporary fencing and scaffolding Air tightness testing toughened and laminated glass concrete tiles Masonry components Heating and ventilation products Raised access floors clay tiles Construction chemicals Industrial lining Offce acoustic screens slates natural and manmade glass Safety helmets pipe insulation noise control shingles protective clothing R oofng insulation Fixing products metal roof tiles Safety glasses W aterproofng temporary protection products Sheeting and cladding Safety boots Air handling and treatment Floor coverings fibre cement sheeting ear plugs Air conditioning Washroom systems Profiled metal sheeting Gloves insulated panels Dust respirators Rainwater goods tools including power tools Roofline products and accessories Soffits Concrete accessories fascias Waterproofng barge boards Render ventilation precast building plastics Steel support systems upvc windows, doors Site set-up equipment conservatories plastic cladding photovoltaic solar kits panels 08 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2010 buSIneSS RevIeW COntInueD the products that SIG supplies are specialist in nature and are provided to specialist contracting companies and professional trades, both for new construction and for Repairs, Maintenance and Improvement.
intRoduCtion to siG Continued siGs RoLe in the suppLy Chain the products that sig supplies are specialist in nature and are provided to specialist contracting companies and professional trades, both for new construction and for Repairs, Maintenance and Improvement RMI.
Whilst general jobbing builders may purchase some items from SIG, they are more broadly served through the general builders merchant supply chain.
sig provides a crucial role in the specialist building products supply chain by: providing access to a broad and diverse providing technical advice and product expertise customer base sig provides a diverse range of specialist products from manufacturers to As building regulations, environmental issues and modern methods of construction support specialist contractors.
manufacturers deliver products in bulk to sigs become ever more complex, sigs customer base values the comprehensive trading sites throughout each country of operation.
sig then focuses upon technical knowledge that SIGs sales staff have of each products specific application delivering a packaged range of products in job specific quantities on a time critical to ensure their suitability for purpose and that legal and safety standards are met basis to a broad and diverse customer base as required by the construction in buildings and industry.
where particularly complex queries arise, sig is able cycle.
SIG provides an efficient channel by which manufacturers can access to call upon advice from its supplier base.
this is an important valueadded element thousands of specialist contractors.
of the service offered by sig.
no other european company has the depth of experience and expertise that SIG has in its product fields.
providing immediate availability of product Enabling contractors to maximise efficient close to site location use of labour Through SIGs 748 trading sites, contractors are able to obtain product in rapid It is estimated that there is up to a 40% loss of efficiency whilst skilled labour timeframes to meet the demands of a fast moving construction site.
the majority waits for material delivery.
sigs ability to deliver product at short notice enables of construction sites do not have a large area to store product safely and securely contractors to flex their work schedule depending upon the daily needs of the and so the ability to source product quickly overcomes the problems caused construction site thus minimising this inefficiency.
This part of the service offering by such a space constraint.
is highly valued by sigs customer base and ensures sig maintains its critical role in the supply chain.
Having an extensive delivery fleet providing credit terms to contractors sig delivers the majority of its goods sold to the construction site.
sig has a sigs typical customer is relatively small to medium sized.
sig provides credit wide range of delivery vehicles, including a number of mechanical offload and to enable a contractor generally to fit goods before they are paid for to ensure crane facilities to deliver the product to exactly where it is needed.
continuity of the supply chain.
sig has very well established and rigorous credit control procedures that limits its risk exposure whilst having regard to the needs of the customer base.
these activities have enabled sig to build businesses that are able to differentiate themselves from mainstream competitors.
Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts 09 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 siGs maRKet seCtoRs maRKets suppLied By siG over the last two decades, sig has continuously expanded the range of products SIG is well diversified, serving a wide range of industries and markets.
The following it sells to specialist contracting companies and professional trades.
sig now sells table provides an indicative estimate, based upon sigs analysis of market information, different lines of specialist construction products across a number of different countries.
of the breakdown of the group's 2010 revenue into its different end markets: the principal countries in which sig trades are: insulation specialist total new build Rmi and building construction % of % of % of environments exteriors interiors products group subgroup subgroup united kingdom Non-residential 53% 56% 44% ireland Residential 37% 46% 54% germany and Austria Industry non-construction 10% 38% 62% france source: sig estimates.
poland the nonresidential market is sigs largest market.
this includes both private benelux and public expenditure on schools, hospitals, prisons, warehouses, leisure complexes, czech Republic, retail developments, sports stadia, airports and offices.
slovakia and hungary Residential is sigs second largest market.
in this market, sig is more heavily in addition to sigs principal countries of operation, the group also has a small weighted to the essential repairs and maintenance market which is less sensitive trading presence in six other jurisdictions, being turkey, Romania, bulgaria, uAe, to the economic fluctuations which can impact the new build sector and provides spain and luxembourg.
the operations in these six jurisdictions amount in total an underlying market in periods of economic downturn.
to less than 1% of group revenue and have therefore not been included in the table above.
The final market for SIG is Industry non-construction.
SIG predominantly supplies industrial technical insulation to this market which includes, for example, power stations and process industries where heat is an important part of the production process.
Revenue by country markets supplied by siG uk 45% nonresidential 53% ireland 3% Residential 37% germany and Austria 21% Industry non-construction 10% france 20% poland 5% belerux 5% central europe 1% 10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2010 buSIneSS RevIeW COntInueD intRoduCtion to siG Continued demand foR siGs pRoduCts Demand for the products sold by SIG is influenced by a wide range of factors.
Overall economic GDP growth drives construction activity on a long term basis.
As the economy grows and contracts, construction activity reflects this trend.
New build is driven by the economic cycle whilst RMI activity is more constant in nature and in certain markets can be counter cyclical, offering a more constant level of activity.
In addition, construction activity is also largely dependent on both the level and cost of credit available in order to finance large construction projects.
Since mid-2008, the availability of credit has reduced and the cost of credit has increased significantly, thus having a dampening effect on construction activity.
the current economic downturn is inevitably affecting the short term demand for sigs products.
however, the medium to long term prospects for sigs market sectors remain strong.
the current low levels of residential and private nonresidential building activity across certain parts of europe are not sustainable when set against demographic growth trends.
Given that SIG enjoys leading positions in the majority of its markets and geographies, the Group is in a prime position to benefit from any upturn in market demand over the medium term.
Whilst demand is principally influenced by the macroeconomic conditions described above, other factors by product range are detailed below: Business Sector-specific market drivers demand for products that reduce energy insulation usage in new construction is affected by the building regulations insulation consumption in both new and existing residential in operation in each country.
over time, it is expected that governments, and Building and nonresidential buildings to reduce the impact businesses and the public will increasingly focus on reducing energy consumption environments of high energy costs and to reduce carbon dioxide more vigorously than in the past and that as a result, insulation demand will co2 emissions.
demand for insulation products will be driven by regulation in addition to environmental and economic factors.
A regular and essential Rmi requirement The age profile of roofs across the UK and Europe gives rise to an ongoing exteriors for roofs subject to increasingly variable Rmi requirement.
this provides a core product demand.
certain products are used extensively for both new build and repair and maintenance demand for new products to reduce building in commercial property and demand over time is expected to increase as people exterior maintenance costs.
look for low-maintenance products and energy efficient options.
growth of specialist distribution as the main supply route.
government incentives surrounding solar energy feed-in tariffs providing significant impetus to demand for solar photovoltaic systems.
Rising standards of internal fit out and the growing new interiors are often required following a change of use or a change interiors importance of acoustic and fire safety standards.
of occupancy within existing non-residential buildings, requiring refitting and removal of partitions, wall storage and ceiling systems.
increased demand for integrated solutions.
fire and acoustic regulations are set to become more stringent in the next few government expenditure to improve the internal years.
this will favour the larger suppliers with a depth of technical expertise, environments of schools and hospitals and other such as sig.
complex major construction projects require specialist application government and utility investment in major specialist and performance knowledge.
this is provided by sigs specialist businesses infrastructure projects.
Requirement for value engineered solutions products on construction projects.
over recent years, methods of construction have changed, leading to a requirement for new innovative specialist products which sig is ideally placed to supply.
justintime approach to project management.
"Convergence of trades and requirement from major contractors for ""bundled"" solutions and supply chain management, thus benefiting all Businesses businesses with significant scale and breadth of product offering such as SIG."
Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts 11 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 the Groups core strategy is to continue the growth and development of SIG as a leading european specialist supplier to the building and construction industries, in order to create long term growth in Shareholder value.
siGs stRateGy Reshaped foR the futuRe: the groups core strategy is to continue the growth and development of sig InveStMent In ORGAnIC DevelOpMent as a leading european specialist supplier to the building and construction industries, GROWtH InItIAtIveS in order to create long term growth in shareholder value.
this includes, but is not limited to: operating efficiency improvements in core businesses: As a direct consequence of the recent economic downturn which first upgrading the groups portfolio by prioritising investment in impacted the Groups end markets in mid-2008 resulting in a significant fall in high growth profitable markets: and demand for sigs products, the group focused on reducing its operating cost base through its cost saving and restructuring programme and also focused on organic growth initiatives supported by selected acquisitions.
the reduction of net debt through the minimisation of working capital and the deferral of all nonessential capital expenditure.
In light of deteriorating macroeconomic conditions which first impacted the Group in the second half of 2008 and the associated reduction in demand for construction However, in order to ensure the business is in good shape to benefit fully related products, sig has reacted quickly to align the cost base of its businesses from recovery in its markets, the group has continued to invest throughout to anticipated levels of market demand.
the group has also taken a number of the downturn in carefully selected organic growth initiatives including: actions which drive operational and commercial efficiencies.
These actions ensure that the group is in good shape to take advantage of stabilising markets.
new trading sites despite the closure of 171 trading sites si nce 1 January 2008 as part of the Groups cost saving and restructuring programme, in order to further reduce the groups net debt, cash generation has again been the Group has also opened 75 new trading sites in the same period: a key focus during 2010. this has been driven by a number of initiatives: strict management of working capital, through the issue of stringent working new geographies the group has established a trading presence in uAe capital targets to all business units: SIG Emirates.
Whilst this is currently a relatively small single site the deferral of nonessential capital expenditure and the redeployment operation, the growth prospects in this region are anticipated to be good: of certain assets: an increased drive for process efficiency through the adoption of best new formats following the successful trial of the sig express concept, practice principles: which offers a stripped down range of essential specialist products from across all our uk divisions to new customers and in locations where gaps further cross business unit resource sharing and cost saving initiatives: and remain in our geographical coverage, the group is continuing to develop this procurement, logistics and property reviews.
model and gradually roll out elsewhere in the uk: and poRtfoLio Review sig energy management we are focused on further extending our As part of the groups strategic development planning, sig maintains an active offering in the field of energy management of buildings, through SIG Energy portfolio management process to ensure: management, and as part of this strategy during 2010 we acquired a small operating businesses are positioned to deliver sustainable long term growth: stake in ice energy technologies limited, a designer and installer of heat efficient allocation of cash to optimise return on capital employed: and pumps and solar pv systems.
this investment was made to secure access to essential expertise and new products at a point in time where demand focussed and prioritised investment for growth and business development.
for sustainable energy solutions is set to grow as a result of the new solar feedin tariff and the anticipated Renewable heat incentive.
the review process is conducted at business unit level and includes a rigorous analysis of external market conditions and competitive dynamics together with an investment in the above organic growth initiatives ensures that the group assessment of internal capabilities and resource requirements from which three year is well positioned to benefit from future growth in its markets.
rolling business plans are developed feeding into the group strategic Review.
A key output of this process is the identification of development initiatives at both business unit and group level.
each initiative is the subject of a full investment appraisal to include capital requirements, return on investment profile, implementation and execution risk analysis.
12 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2010 buSIneSS RevIeW COntInueD Despite the recent economic downturn, where appropriate the Group has continued to invest in its branch network, opening 75 new branches in the three year period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010. siGs stRateGy Continued in order to achieve the groups key long term objectives, sigs long term growth poRtfoLio Review Continued plan is focused around five key growth strategies as follows: Acquisition opportunities are also generated from the portfolio review and are subject to the same rigorous filtering process to ensure compatibility with strategic consolidate and exploit existing market priorities and that they are in line with strict investment criteria in terms of commercial, financial and operational risk and return.
leading positions: market demand growth: management of the development pipeline for both organic and acquisition initiatives forms part of the boards ongoing performance monitoring and is reviewed on a wider product range: regular basis to ensure development opportunities and outcomes are in line with group expectations.
pipeline of development initiatives: and deveLopment of ouR peopLe geographical development into attractive sig is committed to ensuring that all employees and management know what is new markets.
expected of them in their roles and that they receive the necessary training and development to be highly competent in what they do.
An integrated approach to the identification of training needs and the development of talent is core to our 1.
COnsOlIdate and explOIt exIstIng MaRKet leadIng pOsItIOns people development strategy.
to this end a uk talent manager has been appointed sigs strategy is to develop its distribution footprint in order to achieve further to coordinate our activities in the uk.
development activities are organised generally penetration in core markets.
sig continually evaluates its existing trading site network on a businessbybusiness or countrybycountry basis depending on local priorities.
and trading format structure to take advantage of synergistic opportunities within however the group continues to invest in its executive development programme the group.
run in conjunction with Sheffield Hallam University.
This has shown huge benefits, not least in the development of cross company working at a senior level.
the group such opportunities include the sharing of trading sites across different trading brands, has also launched an executive coaching and mentoring programme aimed sharing of transport and inventory across multiple trading sites and combining at continuing the development of senior talent and reinforcing the values and purchasing capabilities across different business streams throughout the group.
behaviours that underpin our activities.
following on from the success of the new manager of the year Award we have launched the emerging manager of the Since mid-2008, SIG has reviewed rigorously the appropriate structure of its trading year Award aimed at identifying, encouraging and nurturing potential managers for site network and has quickly resized it to align with anticipated future market the future.
the group continues to recruit and invest in commercial trainees and demand.
This has resulted in the closure of 171 trading sites since 1 January 2008. graduate talent to help feed our future management requirements.
SIG has ensured that it has retained its most profitable and successful trading sites Key LonG teRm oBjeCtives across each of its businesses to ensure that it is well positioned to benefit from future sig remains committed to the following key long term objectives: improvements in market demand.
create long term growth in shareholder value through a progressive dividend policy and capital growth: furthermore, as part of the groups cost saving and restructuring programme, a number of sig businesses have been merged to deliver cost savings, but more develop and grow by applying the groups core principles of focus, specialisation importantly to deliver operational and commercial efficiencies including the enhancement and service: of the groups cross selling capabilities.
this has included the merger of the uks expand the group and its activities as a leading specialist supplier to professional insulation and interiors distribution businesses and also the merger of the groups trades in the construction and related industries: polish businesses into one entity.
supplement organic growth with targeted acquisition and development initiatives: and be an employer of choice and provide a rewarding and fulfilling environment for its people.
Review of the year Corporate governance Accounts 13 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 siGs stRateGy Continued offering, consideration is then given to widening the supply of this product through Key LonG teRm oBjeCtives Continued the existing trading site network.
in order to demonstrate sigs diverse product 1.
COnsOlIdate and explOIt exIstIng MaRKet leadIng pOsItIOns offering, it is estimated that on a typical nonresidential project in the uk, in excess COntInueD of 35% of the total material cost can be supplied through SIG.
In addition, SIG is despite the recent economic downturn, where appropriate the group has continued at the forefront of product innovation and has developed a number of own brand to invest in its trading site network, opening 75 new trading sites in the three year product ranges.
period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010.
4. pIpelIne OF DevelOpMent InItIAtIveS the change in the number of the groups trading sites over the last three years in support of sigs long term growth objectives, sig employs an active business is shown below: development and portfolio management strategy.
this involves identifying attractive growth opportunities for the group where sigs key skills and capabilities match uk and mainland with those necessary in developing attractive new market opportunities.
this includes ireland europe total a targeted acquisition strategy as well as organic growth initiatives.
31 december 2007 461 318 779 Closures 73 7 80 in light of the challenging market environment the group has ceased its acquisition Openings 9 34 43 programme since September 2008.
Acquired 36 29 65 despite the temporary cessation of the groups acquisition programme, the group 31 december 2008 433 374 807 continues to maintain an excellent knowledge of its market place and has ensured Closures 58 14 72 that it remains aware of possible future acquisition opportunities across europe.
the board will be very careful in its considerations regarding the most appropriate Openings 3 15 18 time to recommence this part of the groups strategy, with carefully chosen 31 december 2009 378 375 753 acquisitions being initially funded out of divestment proceeds.
Closures 18 1 19 Openings 4 10 14 In the meantime, the Group continues to develop and exploit the synergistic benefits that its historical acquisition programme has provided.
These benefits include 31 december 2010 364 384 748 maximising cross business trading, selling new products to existing group customers, selling existing products to new group customers and the sharing of resources to 2.
MaRKet deMand gROWth enhance current cash flow and profitability.
sig is well placed to exploit its product and market knowledge to take a larger share of the european construction markets in which it already operates.
given the relative whilst managements main focus in the year was on optimising revenue and gross margin size of the wider european construction market, the opportunity for growth for sig and also on delivering cost savings in existing operations, the group did selectively is significant.
continue to allocate some modest additional resources to core businesses where opportunities to extend market coverage were identified.
sig believes that the market demand growth for insulation products and sustainable construction products in particular will outstrip the demand for other building products Further detail can be found on page 11 regarding these specific growth opportunities.
as the world attempts to address the issues caused by climate change and increasing energy costs.
sig is ideally placed to serve this additional demand.
5. geOgRaphICal develOpMent IntO attRaCtIve neW MaRKets sig is continually evaluating the construction market prospects of a number of in addition, it is anticipated that the recovering residential sector will provide greater countries to assess where the best growth prospects lie.
sig analyses the supply growth in the short to medium term than the nonresidential sector.
At present, chain structure of each market and evaluates the future potential for sig to enter approximately 37% of the Groups sales are attributable to the residential sector, the market as a specialist supplier within its chosen four market sectors.
and it is part of the groups medium term strategy to increase the proportion of group sales made to this sector.
due to the economic downturn and the cessation of the groups acquisition programme in September 2008, since that date, the Groups extension of its geographic coverage 3.
WIDeR pRODuCt RAnGe into new countries has been limited.
geographical development, however, remains extending the range of specialist products and services which sig offers improves an integral part of sigs long term growth plan, and to this end, the group began customer service and market penetration.
Once SIG has identified a new product trading from an existing site in the uAe in q2 2010.
14 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2010 buSIneSS RevIeW COntInueD Key peRFORManCe IndICatORs the Group uses the following key performance indicators to evaluate the success of its business: 1.
Like for like constant currency sales growth 2.
Underlying operating profit margin Like for like constant currency sales growth Underlying operating profit margin 0.3% 2.9% 0.8% 2008 5.6% 2008 2009 3.0% 15.6% 2009 2.9% 2010 0.3% 2010 Like for like constant currency sales growth is defined as the percentage The underlying operating profit margin is the ratio of underlying operating profit growth decline in the sales of the Group excluding the impact of current year to sales.
Underlying operating profit being before the amortisation of acquired and prior year acquisitions.
intangibles, impairment charges, restructuring costs and gains and losses on derivative financial instruments.
The measure reflects the underlying sales growth in the business which typically arises from increased sales volumes to both new and existing customers, product SIG seeks to improve its underlying operating profit margin by managing its price inflation and selling new products through the existing infrastructure.
The growth selling prices in the local markets in which it operates and by controlling the cost is supported by investment in new brownfield trading site openings and trading base through operational efficiencies.
site relocations into larger premises with additional stockholding capability together with merging of divisions in order to enhance the quality and value of offering the majority of operating costs in the business relate to people, property and to customers.
maintaining positive like for like growth in every business is a key transport and in light of the macroeconomic environment since late 2008, target by which every business is measured and is a key component of being sig took swift action to align these operating costs with the anticipated able to drive profit growth.
underlying market demand for its products.
Like for like sales growth rates rates of decline on a constant currency basis Despite the incremental cost savings of 30m 25m operating costs being are set out below: achieved in 2010 arising from the groups cost saving and restructuring programme, gross margin and inflationary cost pressures resulted in the Groups 2008 2009 2010 underlying operating profit margin reducing slightly from 3.0% in 2009 to 2.9% UK and Ireland 3.4% 22.2% 2.7% in 2010.
Mainland Europe 4.2% 7.6% 2.0% on an ongoing basis the mix of sales between the groups two main regions Group 0.8% 15.6% 0.3% will have an influence on the overall Group underlying operating profit margin.
The table below shows the underlying operating profit margin achieved over the The like for like sales reduction of 2.7% in the UK and Ireland in 2010 reflects last three years: the continued reduction in market demand as a direct result of the current economic downturn which first impacted the Group in the second half of 2008.
2008 2009 2010 however, overall the end markets in which sig operates continued to stabilise UK and Ireland 6.7% 2.9% 3.1% in the second half of 2010, with like for like constant currency sales in h2 2010 Mainland Europe 4.9% 3.6% 3.1% for the uk and ireland being down only 0.6% despite the extreme winter weather which severely impacted trading activity in november and december.
Group after Parent Company costs 5.6% 3.0% 2.9% in mainland europe, the group recorded a like for like constant currency The Groups current underlying operating profit margin at 2.9% is well below sales increase of 2.0% in the full year.
similar to the uk and ireland, sales that historically achieved.
given the operational gearing impact of the business performance in h2 2010 was much stronger than h1 2010, with like for like where the majority of operating costs are fixed, it is envisaged that the Groups constant currency sales being up 5.0% in the second half of the year.
operating margins will improve once the group begins to experience continued sales growth.
the geographical spread of the business provides the group with diversity and an ability to manage risk.
whilst the group has recorded an overall decline in like for like constant currency sales in each year since 2008, over the ten year period 20002010 the Group has averaged a like for like sales increase of 5.5%.
despite the group recording like for like sales declines in each of the last three years, management believes that most of its businesses have either held or grown its market share.
