D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT C hairmans statement Adjusted operating profit increased by 26%.
Grocery A major feature of these results is the significant I am pleased to report margins improved, there was an excellent result for increase in the cash generation capability of the Sugar and an outstanding performance from Primark.
Adjusted operating profit before depreciation a record year for Our Chinese sugar operations made a significant and amortisation increased by 228m to 1,241m recovery from the difficulties reported last year and provided the resources for investment.
and there was no repeat of the losses incurred on after capital expenditure of 694m during the year, vegetable oil futures in the US.
Growth in adjusted net debt at the end of the year was 183m lower earnings of 25%, particularly in the prevailing than last year at 816m, although the 115m raised Revenue grew across the economic climate, is a fine achievement by the at the beginning of the year from Illovos rights issue whole group.
The strength of the group by 10% to over groups balance sheet, the reliability of its cash A number of capital projects were completed during generation and the newly negotiated bank facilities 10bn for the first time the year and have begun to yield results.
Several that extend to 2015, provide the financial resources projects are still in progress and will continue to drive to fund our investment ambitions.
with strong underlying the groups growth as they come on stream, notably the restructuring of our meat business in Australia, Corporate responsibility trading from all of our sugar capacity expansions in southern Africa and We have always sought to run our business in ways the building of the Vivergo biofuels plant in the UK.
that are socially and environmentally responsible.
Encouragingly, we have identified a number of It is part of our culture and we have been reporting business segments.
further investment opportunities, particularly in the the groups performance on health, safety and developing markets of China and Africa and in new the environment for the past seven years.
Some of stores for Primark across Europe.
The high level of the highlights over the last year are included in the capital investment is therefore planned to continue.
corporate responsibility section of this years annual report.
However the limited space available here does not do justice to the variety of initiatives under way and the progress we have made.
We are therefore launching our first corporate responsibility report which details our business principles, explains how we manage our corporate responsibility and contains a comprehensive review of our performance.
This report is available for download from our website at www.
aspx 4 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We have always sought to run our business in ways that are socially and environmentally responsible... this year we are launching our first corporate responsibility report.
Employees Dividends This years success is in large part attributable to A final dividend of 16.2p is proposed, to be paid the dedication of our employees who have shown on 14 January 2011 to shareholders on the register resilience and resourcefulness in a difficult economic on 10 December 2010.
Together with the interim environment.
Successful delivery of such a wide-ranging dividend of 7.6p paid on 2 July 2010, this will make capital investment programme also requires a total of 23.8p for the year, an increase of 13%.
considerable commitment on their part, to both Outlook managing the projects and ensuring that the There is uncertainty about the global economic day-to-day business continues to perform effectively.
outlook, especially for western economies, and I take this opportunity to extend the gratitude of the governmental actions to be taken to reduce budget board to all of them on behalf of all shareholders.
We are cautious of the impact that this, It is also satisfying to note that during a period together with VAT increases in Europe, will have of employment uncertainty we are able to report on consumer spending.
We have also seen, recently, a further increase in the size of our workforce.
significant increases in some commodity prices, The growth of the business has resulted in the particularly cotton and wheat.
However, the diversity number of our employees now reaching 97,000. of the groups operations and its broad geographic spread together with further returns from our capital The continued development of the group requires investments serve to mitigate these pressures.
At this exceptional and sustained performance from our stage, therefore, we expect to achieve revenue and executive teams.
We have significantly increased our profit growth in the coming year.
focus on executive development, running leading-edge programmes for our business leaders around the world as well as the first executive programmes Charles Sinclair dedicated to our Chinese teams.
To support our Chairman requirement to retain key executives and attract new people to our executive teams as the group develops further, we will also be asking shareholders to approve an increase in the maximum grant of shares for our long-term incentive plans.
At the same time, we are introducing a requirement that all direct reports to the Chief Executive build a shareholding in the Company over time, to a value equivalent to their annual salary.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5
