smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 6 Chairmans statement Despite another testing year, Smiths Group has again delivered a strong performance that highlights the lasting value of the restructuring programme underway across our businesses.
My caution about prospects for the global economy, expressed in the 2009 Annual Report, proved well founded as most markets have recorded only fitful progress, if any, towards sustained growth.
However your Companys focus on operational improvements and better cash generation, combined with geographically diverse and largely defensive end markets, helped generate the best profit margins in a decade.
This impressive performance is the result of much hard work from all our staff worldwide, particularly assisted by a range of cost-saving initiatives such as the divisional restructuring, more efficient global procurement, and improved information services.
Launched two years ago, these self-help initiatives have driven profitability to new highs against a backdrop of continuing economic uncertainty.
Our performance has also been aided by the underlying resilience that characterises our core markets.
Terror threats, seen most dramatically in the failed bombing of an airliner over Detroit last Christmas, show few signs of diminishing: ageing populations require greater health care: global energy demand keeps growing: and wireless communications advance at a tremendous pace.
While our relentless drive on operational savings and cash generation will be maintained, we are well aware that preparedness for an eventual economic recovery cannot be neglected.
A renewed focus on growing sales is underway, as seen through our greater investment in research and development, the addition of complementary technologies, and increased exposure to such fast-growing markets as China and India.
In Smiths Medical, for example, sales of products launched in the last three years are up 16%.
Smiths Detection engineers are co-operating with their counterparts at Analogic, an image processing company, to develop the next generation of high-speed systems for screening checked baggage for explosives.
In the potentially lucrative field of clinical diagnostics, Smiths Detection has signed an agreement with healthcare multinational, Novartis.
This grants it exclusive rights to Donald Brydon market Smiths Detections Bio-Seeq system for clinical diagnostics and Chairman   via easy-to-use, on-site devices.
We have also continued to reshape the Group portfolio towards growth through our targeted acquisition programme.
The purchase of Interconnect Devices, Inc. IDI, a spring probe connector company, by Smiths Interconnecthas added a complementary technologyand is now also increasing the divisions sales capabilities in China.
There is also valuable scope to leverage sales in Europe where IDI currently has limited presence.
I am , aidedbya farleaneroperational structure in the businesses and a more focused corporate centre, will allow Smiths Group to leverage a disproportionate advantage when trading conditions eventually recover.
6 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:19 Page 7 If any reminder were needed, recent events in the Gulf of Mexico Sales 4% illustrate the vital importance of unremitting corporate vigilance over issues of environment, health and safety.
These topics are reviewed at 2,770m every management meeting and we have recorded further steady progress in exceeding the tough targets we set ourselves, as evidenced Headline operating profit 18% in our corporate responsibility report.
492m The past year has also seen some important changes to the Smiths Group Board.
John Langston retired as Finance Director on 31 May after Statutory operating profit 2% 10 years on the Board.
John had held a variety of senior roles within the 436m Group andI wouldliketo thank him forhis  to the success of Smiths in recent years.
Peter Turner joined in April from Venture Production plc and became Finance Director after a brief handoverfromJohn.
 strongfinance skills and his wide knowledge and experience of multinational operations, particularly in oil and gas.
On the non-executive side, Bruno Angelici joined the Board from 1 July following a highly successful 20- year career with AstraZeneca plc.
Bruno brings a wealth of experience from the pharmaceutical and healthcare markets.
I welcome both to the Board and look forward to working with them.
An internal Board review conducted during the year highlighted both our good practice on governance and the complementary mix of experience and expertise among our directors.
The Board sees these reviews as an extremely useful measure of the collective effectiveness of the directors, as well as a means of assessing individual performance and leadership.
The economic and financial upheavals of the past two years have been testing for the Board which, like the Group, has emerged strengthened by the experience.
We now look forward to the future challenges and opportunities with even greater commitment and enthusiasm.
The economic outlook remains uncertain.
Markets are struggling to assess how governments withdrawal of fiscal stimulus and the imposition of tough spendingcuts will impact on business prospects across theglobe.
Parts of Europe came close to a second banking crisis this summer: some market data indicates that any economic recovery could be muted at best: and the threat of a double-dip recession stubbornly remains.
Such a fundamental lack of business confidence could act as a brake on sales growth and we must continue to focus relentlessly on managing the areas within our control.
In that way, as seen this past year, we will be best placed to generate value for our shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Philip and all our staff for another year of significant achievement.
These results are a fitting testament to their dedication and commitment to improving the performance of our businesses.
7 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview
