2010 was a year in which AstraZeneca maintained its strong financial performance Louis Schweitzer Chairman Dividend information $2.55 Dividend per Ordinary Share 2010 Dividend for 2010 $ Pence SEK Payment date First interim dividend 0.70 44.9 5.12 13 September 2010 Second interim dividend 1.85 116.7 11.99 14 March 2011 Total 2.55 161.6 17.11 Distributions to shareholders $m 2010 2009 2008 Dividends 3,361 2,977 2,739 1 Share repurchases 2,604 610 1 Share repurchases in 2010, net of proceeds from the issue of share capital equal to $494 million, were $2,110 million.
6 Chairmans Statement Overview Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chairmans Statement most likely to deliver technical and commercial success.
That In the face of sustained pressures on the includes working with payers to ensure that they value and are business, 2010 was a year in which AstraZeneca willing to purchase our medicines.
maintained its strong financial performance.
Also central to our strategy is a rm belief in external collaboration.
We also made good progress in implementing We have a desire to access the best science, whatever its origins, our strategy to be a focused, integrated, and to act as a valued and trusted partner.
innovation-driven, global, prescription-based We have undertaken significant restructuring initiatives in furtherance biopharmaceutical business.
The first phase of the restructuring programme is now complete, resulting in the realisation of annual benets of Group sales in 2010 were unchanged at $33,269 million.
Reported $2.4 billion achieved to date at a cumulative cost of around $2.5 billion.
operating profit was $11,494 million, down 1%.
Reported earnings per share for the full year were up 7% at $5.60 2009: $5.19.
Within Outlook and cash returns to shareholders the unchanged revenue total there was strong sales growth for We continue to plan on the basis that revenue will be in the range of medicines such as Crestor, Symbicort and Seroquel XR, and $28-$34 billion a year over the 2010-14 period, as revenue growth revenue outside the US increased by 7%, including a 16% increase from key franchises that retain exclusivity and continued growth in in Emerging Markets.
On the other hand US revenue was down Emerging Markets are pressured by the loss of market exclusivity by 7%.
As expected, revenue in the US was affected by generic on a number of products.
competition for Arimidex, Pulmicort Respules and Toprol-XL, as well as the absence of the H1N1 inuenza swine u vaccine In recognition of the Groups strong balance sheet and sustainable revenue that benefited 2009 revenues.
significant cash ow, and the Boards confidence in the strategic direction and long-term prospects for the business, we announced, Pharmaceutical sector in conjunction with the full year 2009 results, the adoption of a Our performance in 2010 took place against a background of progressive dividend policy, intending to maintain or grow the continued world pharmaceutical market growth.
This growth is dividend each year.
After providing for business investment, funding being driven by increasing and ageing populations, as well as the progressive dividend policy and meeting our debt service expanding numbers of patients in emerging markets who can obligations, the Board will also keep under review the opportunity benefit from our medicines, together with the increasing prevalence to return cash in excess of these requirements to shareholders of chronic diseases and advances in science and technology.
On through periodic share repurchases.
the other hand, the pharmaceutical sector, including AstraZeneca, faces a number of challenges in the form of competition, particularly The Board has recommended a second interim dividend of from generic versions of medicines, and declining R&D productivity.
$1.85, an 8% increase over the second interim dividend awarded In addition, most of our sales take place in highly regulated markets in 2009.
This brings the dividend for the full year to $2.55 where cost containment by governments and other payers for 161.6 pence, SEK 17.11, an increase of 11% from 2009.
In 2010, healthcare is a priority, especially in the wake of the economic cash distributions to shareholders through dividends totalled downturn.
We expect this pressure to continue, most notably in the $3,361 million and net share repurchases totalled $2,110 million.
US and European markets and the Board will keep its plans under continuous review to ensure we are able to respond to changes.
Board changes There were a number of Board changes during the year.
John AstraZeneca fully recognises the importance of its reputation.
Buchanan and Bo Angelin both left the Board immediately after the We are committed to doing business in an ethical and proper 2010 AGM.
John had been a Director for eight years and had also chaired the Audit Committee.
His contribution to the work of the manner and take compliance with all laws seriously.
Oversight of Board and the Audit Committee over those years was significant the pharmaceutical sector by regulators and competition authorities and we benefited greatly from his skills, experience and thoughtful has intensied in recent years.
The Board, assisted by the Audit approach.
Bo was appointed as a Director in 2007 and stepped Committee, plays an active role in monitoring performance.
down in order to concentrate on his scientific work.
He provided valuable insight to the Board and the Science Committee during Our strategy his time as a Director.
On behalf of their fellow Directors, I would Against this outlook, the Board believes its focused strategy is like to thank both for their excellent service to AstraZeneca.
the most value-creating path for AstraZeneca.
Our business model is based on using the best science and technology to invent and Bruce Burlington joined the Board in August.
He brings with him acquire, develop, produce and distribute innovative medicines that a wealth of pharmaceutical industry experience following a career make a meaningful difference to patient health around the world.
at the FDA and subsequently at Wyeth, now part of Pzer Inc.
In January 2011, Shriti Vadera joined the Board.
Her experience of Underpinning this model is the creation, protection and subsequent emerging markets, and knowledge of global finance and public sharing of intellectual property.
It is on this basis that we continue policy, will be invaluable.
I would like to welcome both Bruce and to invest in new medicines and work to protect and optimise our Shriti to the Board.
investments by rigorously defending our patent rights.
We were therefore pleased with the court decision upholding the validity and Appreciation enforceability of the Crestor US substance patent.
2010 was a successful and challenging year for AstraZeneca.
We maintained our strong financial performance and took and The focus of our efforts to implement our strategy in 2010 was implemented difficult decisions to ensure the future success on making the transformational changes to the business needed of the Group.
None of this would have been possible without to generate sustainable long-term value.
At the heart of these the leadership of David Brennan and the other members of his changes was the creation of a single R&D organisation which we executive team.
My thanks, and those of the whole Board, go are reshaping and in which we are investing to improve productivity to them and all our employees who did so much in 2010 for the and secure targeted levels of return.
Complementing this is a single long-term success of AstraZeneca.
Commercial organisation which not only ensures that our medicines reach the doctors and patients who need them, but also works Louis Schweitzer closely with R&D to ensure that our pipeline delivers the medicines Chairman AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Chairmans Statement 7
