chairmans statement in common with other sectors of the economy, market as previously announced, the Board is sorry to lose conditions in sports retail remained challenging non-executive director Malcolm dalgleish who has throughout the period under review.
our focus remained decided to stand down at the next aGM.
We thank him firmly fixed on doing what we do best providing for his contribution and will miss his wise counsel.
We consumers with the widest possible range of the best are pursuing the appointment of a replacement and will products at the most competitive prices available.
our update shareholders in due course.
aim is to offer quality footwear, clothing and equipment Management remains determined to provide the best for every category of customer from the fashion conscious products at the most competitive price in the market place.
the Group has a robust business We will continue to expand the number of stores, develop model, whose worth has been proved once again this year further strategic partnerships and enhance our product in the delivery of strong results from the Group.
We are determined to in addition to exceeding our expectations outlined 12 strengthen our position as the uKs leading sports retailer months ago in terms of both profit performance and debt and will expand our foothold on mainland europe.
reduction, we are pleased with our sales performance both Finally, on behalf of the Board, i would like to thank all our in the stores themselves but also with the increased sales employees whose commitment and expertise have helped in our growing internet business.
We continued to develop us to meet our 2010 targets and to deliver a strong set of our international store network and were pleased with results in what continues to be a challenging economic progress made in changing the balance of sales mix from environment.
on a personal note, i am delighted to join wholesale to licensing in the Brands division.
We made such a talented and hard working team and am confident significant progress in our debt reduction programme that significant further Group success lies ahead.
during the year, paying down 119m, and intend to continue to reduce debt further in the coming year.
this is a key consideration in the decision not to pay a final Keith Hellawell dividend this year.
non-executive chairman partnerships with world famous suppliers such as nike 22 July 2010 and adidas, to name only two, are critically important to our business and we value such relationships highly.
We are delighted to be creating a unique nike training academy at our shirebrook headquarters in partnership with nike where sports direct staff will benefit from extensive, specialist training in the current nike range as well as likely future developments.
this is the first time nike has joined with a retail partner in such a facility anywhere in the world.
We welcome this innovative extension of our relationship with a valued third party supplier as well as the opportunity to take our staff training standards on to a new, industry leading level.
the announcement in august 2009 of the competition commissions interest in our acquisition of 31 stores from JJB sports plc and the potential investigation into our affairs by the office of Fair trading and the serious Fraud office caused concern and reflected adversely on our share price.
We were pleased, but not surprised, by our complete exoneration by the competition commission in March 2010 and are doing all that we can to help and facilitate the other regulatory bodies to reach the same conclusion as soon as possible.
We have provided the sFo with all the information they have requested to date and we have reason to hope the investigation may be concluded in the autumn.
section 1 OVERVIEW Nike Academy Shirebrook Training Centre sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 5
