47 Introduction to SSE Corporate governance Directors report Chairmans introduction Financial statements Shareholder information I am pleased to introduce the Corporate performance against them is appraised Governance Report for 2009 10.
It explains annually and the most important of them our approach to corporate governance in all Safety is the first item on the detail by describing: the SSE team: risk agenda for every Board meeting.
management and internal control: how the Board works: and setting out the work Commitment of each of the five Board Committees The commitment of the Directors to the Audit, Risk and Trading, Nomination, Safety, business of SSE remains undiminished.
Health and Environment and Remuneration.
The non-Executive Directors devote a significant amount of time to SSE over The Board does not regard corporate and above attendance at Board and governance as a burden but as the best Committee meetings.
During the year way of ensuring that SSE is a consistently each non-Executive Director visited key Lord Smith of Kelvin successful, well-run and responsible business locations throughout SSE and Chairman business, capable of delivering increases had briefings from members of the SSE in the dividend payable to shareholders team on a range of matters such as credit in the short, medium and long term.
management, energy trading and major projects.
Board meetings took place on a Evaluation number of SSE sites, including the regional A strong corporate governance framework office in Reading and the customer service is particularly important.
In the current centre at Cumbernauld.
I know that all of economic business environment it is vital the non-Executive Directors value their that the risks to which SSE is exposed association with SSE and with the excellent are properly identified and managed.
team of people employed by the Company.
That is one of the reasons why the Board decided this year that the evaluation of The entire Board is committed to supporting SSE during the next phase its performance should be carried out by of its development.
Throughout that time, an external party for the first time.
This we will work together to make sure that evaluation paid particular attention to risk SSE continues to be a responsible, wellmanagement, and is reported on in more run company with strong corporate detail in the following report.
The independent evaluation was a Lord Smith of Kelvin worthwhile exercise and it is interesting Chairman to note that the proposals for the new 18 May 2010 Combined Code on Corporate Governance now provide that external Board evaluation should take place at least every three years.
We contributed to the consultation on the review of the Combined Code and welcome the changes which have been proposed.
Values SSE pays particular attention to the highest level of governance and strives to foster a culture that values proper ethical standards, personal and corporate integrity and respect for others.
We have recently produced a code of business practice, Doing the right thing, which brings all our main policies on responsible practice together in one place.
This has been distributed to everyone in SSE, and is also a key part of the induction programme for everyone joining the Company as a new employee.
There is a lot more information about SSEs key policies on issues relating to responsible business practice on the SSE website.
More broadly, the SSE SET of core values Safety, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork remain SSEs guiding principles.
As set out in the Remuneration Report, employees
