04 05 ChAiRMAns stAtEMEnt  INNOVAtION LeD ORGANIC GROWtH AND WeLL CHOSeN ACQUISItIONS It is said that the true test of the quality of a company and its dividends management is how they cope with a recession.
To date, SSL The Directors recommend an increased final dividend, up has passed that test.
Our geographic spread, the quality of our 25 per cent, of 8.0 pence per ordinary share 2009: 6.4 pence, brands and their market position, the continued enhancement which, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General and development of our products and the remorseless Meeting AGM on 22 July 2010, will be paid on 2 September focus on cost and efficiency have led to a resilient financial 2010 to shareholders on the register on 6 August 2010.
This performance through the worst worldwide recession since will make a total dividend of 11.1 pence per ordinary share before the Second World War.
The last year has also been helped by the success of our strategy of expanding our geographic footprint.
Our outlooK Russian and Ukraine acquisitions have to date exceeded all The new financial year has started as we expected.
The global our expectations and it is also worth recording the excellent economy seems to be improving although in certain territories results which were achieved in China and Japan.
This is in line with our predictions and The results from the more established markets were we continue to expect to perform strongly.
The twin drivers more than satisfactory, but it is to the management teams of innovation led organic growth in Durex and Scholl and credit that it is some of our more recent investments which well-chosen acquisitions support both our earnings target, are driving the growth of the Company.
of increasing EPS by 50 per cent in the three years to March Total sales in the year rose 24.9 per cent to 2012, and our continuing longer-term growth ambitions.
Underlying sales growth for our branded have the brands, the market positions and the geographic consumer products excluding the effect of acquisitions footprint combined with the continued product development was 4.1 per cent to 632.3 million with growth in each of our and innovation to be confident of continuing to perform major categories, Durex, Scholl Footcare and Scholl Footwear.
Underlying operating profit increased by 5.6 per cent to Once again this year, our employees around the world 96.7 million.
Total operating profit, including acquisitions, have shown real commitment and passion to achieve these grew 40.8 per cent to 126 million.
Profit before tax grew strong results.
On behalf of the Board, I offer sincere thanks 50.7 per cent to 115.3 million, and Earnings Per Share grew for their contribution.
