Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that we have achieved a strong set of We have made a good start to the new financial year to 30 April results in a challenging business climate and we are well placed 2011 and current trading remains in line with our expectations.
to benefit from the improving economic environment.
We are seeing improvement in revenue trends, and whilst the sustainability and pace of economic recovery remains uncertain, We have a clear strategy, strong business fundamentals and the outlook for the Group is positive.
Coupled with the excellent relationships with key stakeholders.
These strengths anticipated reduction in its fuel costs and the availability of provide a good platform for continued growth in our greener, revenue support at South Western Trains, the Group is well smarter bus and rail services.
We look forward to working with placed to deliver increased earnings in the year to 30 April 2011. the new UK Government with a view to capitalising on the potential of public transport to help combat the threat of climate Iain Duffin and Janet Morgan are standing down as Directors change and to further contribute to the economy.
after nine years of service, and I would like to thank both of them for their tremendous contributions to the Company.
They each Our Group is in good financial health.
Our relatively low net debt leave with the appreciation and best wishes of the Board.
We gives us the flexibility to respond to changing conditions and to have been fortunate to find able replacements with the capitalise on suitable growth opportunities.
Although as a whole appointments of Helen Mahy and Phil White as new nonwe are less susceptible than many other businesses to changes in executive Directors.
Both bring extensive experience across a the economic environment, we took decisive, early management wide range of business sectors and they will complement the action to reduce costs and improve efficiency as economic Boards skills and knowledge.
We are now seeing improvement in revenue trends consistent with economic recovery and the Finally, I would like to thank our employees at all levels of our actions we have taken leave us well positioned to benefit from business for their contribution to the successful delivery of the the improving conditions.
Groups strategy over the past year.
They have continued to put our passengers first.
I am positive about the outlook for our The overall profitability of the Group has continued to be strong.
business and confident we will deliver increased value to our The Group has achieved further revenue growth despite the shareholders and provide greener, smarter bus and rail services challenging macro-economic environment and the severe for our customers.
weather in early 2010 which affected the transport sector.
Positive recent trading trends, coupled with the benefit of ongoing cost control, give us confidence moving forward.
Total operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items was 192.0m 2009: 227.8m.
Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items was 18.7p 2009: 22.9p.
Robert Speirs Chairman On 12 February 2010, the Group declared a second interim dividend of 4.5p per ordinary share in addition to the first 23 June 2010 interim dividend of 2.0p per share declared in December 2009.
In light of this, the Group is not proposing a final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 April 2010.
The total dividend for the year was up 8.3% on the previous year.
Exceptional items are defined in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on page 58 of this Annual Report Stagecoach Group plc | page 1
