Chairmans Statement for the year ended 28 November 2010 minded with regard to the launch consequence of this approach.
The of new ventures, continuing to back multi-brand strategy we operate and home-grown entrepreneurial talent our highly diversified client base will, and utilise the established tracker as ever, be crucial in achieving this share minority-stakes model where goal and we believe that all SThree appropriate, in order to expand beyond businesses, irrespective of their our existing bases.
relative maturity, have scope for significant further growth.
A detailed review of our trading and results is provided within the Chief The Directors recommend a final Executive Officers, Chief Financial dividend of 8.0p second interim 2009: Officers Reviews and other sections 8.0p per share for the year ended of this Annual Report.
During the year, 28 November 2010, to be paid on we have also continued to improve 6 June 2011, to those on the register as In my first statement as SThree our reporting on Remuneration, at 6 May 2011.
This follows the interim Chairman, I am very pleased to Governance and Corporate Social dividend of 4.0p 2009: 4.0p per report that despite the economic Responsibility CSR issues, wherever share declared earlier in the year and uncertainty which continued as we we can, to accommodate best practice paid on 3 December 2010. moved into 2010, the Group was still and investor requirements and we will able to achieve an excellent set of The SThree business is built on an continue to expand these areas as the results.
Despite some very challenging absolute focus on delivering high business moves forward.
market conditions, we expanded the quality and timely permanent and business globally, the Group having We continued to roll out our Enterprise contract specialist staffing services been re-organised under regional Risk Management ERM processes, to our clients.
It remains therefore, MDs in early 2010.
At the time of formalising both Group and local risk first and foremost a people business writing, we are also now seeing signs appetite parameters under new KPIs, and it is only as a direct result of the that our share price is moving in the all of which are now firmly embedded talent and dedication of our people right direction, benefitting those within the business and underpinned that we are able to continue to post shareholders who invested at IPO or by our Group Risk Management Policy.
At the year shortly thereafter and who have stuck Along with early consideration of the end the Group employed a total of with the Company through the more new UK Corporate Governance Code 1,863 people worldwide, an increase recent difficult times.
It should not the Code, these measures are a from 1,597 at the prior year end and be forgotten that many in the latter further demonstration of our solid we have a clear strategy to grow category are our valued employees.
stewardship and strong approach to this further over the next five years, corporate governance.
particularly in our newer geographies, During the year we opened new whilst also launching initiatives offices in Perth, Delhi, Houston, San Our tried and tested strategy remains Francisco, Munich and Dsseldorf, primarily focused on pursuing with further offices in Doha, Sao organic growth, through continued Paulo, Antwerp and Abu Dhabi due development of the Groups wellto open in H1 2011.
As a result, we established UK business, whilst now have an even more diversified at the same time also increasing business, both in terms of geographic the Groups revenues from other and sector spread, this will enable us sectors and countries.
Our business to optimise our performance as the model continues to prioritise high market further improves.
Our non quality over high volume and seeks UK gross profit now represents 60% to optimise the superior margins of the Groups gross profit 2009: we consistently achieve as a 55%.
As always, we remain openSThree plc 3 Chairmans Statement continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 which will improve the way we work.
I would also like to take this Chief amongst these is our Values opportunity to thank all our continuing initiative which looks to ensure that employees across the world once the SThree core values of Respect, again for their contribution during Rapport, Energy and Reward are at the the year, many of whom have been forefront of everything that we do.
with the Group for all or most of their careers.
Some of these individuals We are applying early the provisions are featured in the front half of of the UK Corporate Governance Code this Annual Report, which shows and, as such, all Directors will retire at highlights from the Groups annual the 2011 AGM and submit themselves management conference and for re-election.
Further information on corporate HQ.
this is contained within the Notice of Meeting.
Under the Code, as Chairman, I am required to oversee the annual performance evaluation process conducted in respect of the Board, Committees and individual Directors and to hold regular development meetings with Directors in respect of any issues identified.
I am very pleased to say that the evaluation concluded that, overall and individually, the performance of the We believe that our prospects for Board, each Committee and each further growth and success remain Director was and is effective and excellent and whilst our business that all Directors demonstrate full will ultimately depend on the overall commitment in their respective roles.
strength of the worldwide economy, we are confident of a bright future.
During the year we said goodbye to both Sir Anthony Cleaver and Sunil Wickremeratne.
Tony retired at the AGM in April 2010 and his significant influence helped create the blueprint of the highly successful plc we are Clay Brendish today, whilst Sunil retired at the end CHAIRMAN of November 2010, having been with 28 January 2011 the Group some 22 years.
He was instrumental in creating a number of SThrees key brands and without him the Group would certainly not be what it is today and he will be sorely missed as both a friend and colleague by many.
