Chairmans Statement Rodney Baker-Bates, Group Chairman On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to report on a period of both good progress and consolidation within the Group.
The Group has strengthened all aspects of the business, despite the tough trading year.
Performance People We have achieved significant contract wins in the past financial On 1 July 2009, Jesper Kjaedegaard and Daniel Dayan were year, particularly a major new win with Unilever.
We have appointed as Non-Executive Directors, replacing Richard Burrell improved our margins by delivering synergies, through tight cost and Nigel Rawlings, who guided the Group through the transition control and by driving further efficiencies in our core trucking from The Westbury Property Fund to the Stobart Group.
We are utilising our assets better, as is demonstrated grateful for their input.
by the development programme at the Widnes inland port and Jesper and Daniel have the skills and experience to help guide the similar schemes will follow.
Group through this exciting time in its growth and development.
This past year has also seen an improvement in the funding of the Jesper brings a wealth of experience in multimodal logistics, espebusiness.
We have repaid facilities due within 12 months and cially in ports and shipping.
Daniel has solid operational experience improved the asset and liability matching within the balance sheet.
that gives him a strong customer perspective.
Other highlights include the completed successful integration of recently acquired businesses such as James Irlam and Innovate Outlook renamed Eddie Stobart Chilled.
These integrations have seen The economic climate is still tough as Andrew Tinklers statement significant synergies and efficiency savings, which should yield makes clear.
However the Board remains convinced that the Group further benefits going forward.
has the market strategy, systems and people in place to prosper.
We are very positive about the continued future growth potential across Dividend all the Divisions.
The Group maintains a progressive dividend policy, which takes We approach 2010 11 in a buoyant mood, forecasting better marinto account underlying growth in Group earnings, capital requiregins, further cost management opportunities, additional turnover ments and cash flows, while maintaining an appropriate level of from new contracts and substantial further progress in some of our dividend cover.
recent acquisitions, such as London Southend Airport.
Asset development opportunities will continue to bring good project returns, An interim dividend of 2p was paid in December 2009.
The Board whilst at the same time strengthening our core transport and wareis proposing a final dividend of 4p per ordinary share, bringing the house businesses.
total dividend for the year to 6p 2009:6p.
The final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 21 June 2010.
Rodney Baker-Bates Non-Executive Chairman Report and Accounts 2010 2
