Synergy Health plc 3 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Chairmans statement We have laid the foundations for future growth by securing our financial position and continuing to establish operations in key growth markets In 2010 Synergy Health has met its commitment set out in last years The Board has been most impressed with the way that the employees annual report to increase its financial strength through improved have responded to the targets and challenges set during the year.
pro tability and stronger cash generation.
Despite a dif cult economic The success of the Group over the last year has been based on backdrop, the Group has proved itself to be resilient to these conditions.
the efforts and commitment of our workforce to improve financial We have laid the foundations for future growth by securing our financial performance, ef ciency and customer service.
This commitment position and continuing to establish operations in key growth markets has been evident across all geographies in which we operate, and it is around the world.
particularly pleasing to see our newer employees in recently established operations in Ireland and China follow the ethics and values that we I am pleased to report that the Group met the performance targets have established.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of set by the Board after the trading issues of 2008, mainly related to our employees for their continued dedication and the achievements rising external costs.
This improved performance is demonstrated by during the year.
the headline growth in revenues of 4.5% to 286.4 million 2009: 274.1 million, underlying growth of 7.5% excluding non-core revenues Outlook and the one percentage point improvement in the operating margin to Our success in addressing the objectives outlined in last years annual 13.9%.
These in turn have led to an increase in adjusted pro t before report has resulted in the Group being in a position of operational and tax by 25.0% to 32.6 million.
After taking account of amortisation on financial strength.
Importantly, Synergy is positioned for further growth as acquired intangibles and non-recurring items, pro t before tax increased a result of managements renewed focus on the longer term strategy that by 50.2% to 24.5 million.
was set after the acquisition of the sterilisation business, Isotron, in 2007.
Importantly, the Group ended the financial year with a substantially Synergy is an expert in sterilisation technologies that are used both within stronger balance sheet.
Net debt has reduced by 36.8 million to hospitals and within the medical device market.
Our strategy is to expand 133.4 million 2009: 170.2 million, achieved almost entirely from our geographic markets to increase our global market share of services cash ow generated internally across the business.
The forward order in these sectors as well as develop our expertise in infection prevention book has been maintained at 850 million.
EPS and Dividend Whilst economic stability appears to be returning to most developed We have a well established track record of achieving above average countries, the healthcare market continues to seek increased ef ciency earnings growth and I am pleased to report that the business is back as government and company budgets come under pressure.
Adjusted basic earnings per share was 45.74p, an increase the most ef cient specialist outsourcing providers to this market, Synergy of 23.3%.
After taking account of amortisation on acquired intangibles is well positioned to capitalise on this need.
The scale that Synergy has and non-recurring items, basic earnings per share was 40.56p, an built and the cost advantage that this brings, together with its technical increase of 73.0%.
expertise, creates signi cant barriers to entry.
Dividends for the year totalling 13.2p 2009: 11.0p have been paid, Much of last year was focused on restoring margins and improving comprising an initial interim dividend of 4.9p paid in January 2010 and operating cash ow to strengthen the balance sheet.
We are now a second interim dividend of 8.3p per share paid in April, the second increasingly focused on lifting revenue growth and we are making interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend.
In total this represents an substantial investments in our sales and commercial teams.
The market increase of 20% in accordance with the Boards policy of increasing trends are favourable with our customers needing to meet increasingly dividends broadly in line with the growth in the adjusted earnings demanding regulatory requirements as ef ciently as possible and we see per share.
this demand re ected in our growing bid pipeline.
As a result we expect to see improved revenue growth coming through during the second half Employees of the year.
With a clear strategic vision, a strengthened management During the year we have taken the opportunity to strengthen the team and positive market conditions we believe Synergy is well placed to management team both to support the reorganisation of the Group continue to deliver strong underlying earnings growth in the current year.
into geographic regions as well as to improve speci c service areas.
We have a clear strategy to continue to develop our senior leadership team through our talent management programme to ensure that the Stephen G Wilson Groups improving performance is sustainable.
