Yule Catto & Co plc 04 Annual report and accounts 2010 Chairmans statement Performance Total sales by destination % 2010 was a very good year for Yule Catto, building on the as derived from note 4 to financial statements on page 48 strong improvement in Group performance delivered in 2009.
Underlying Group profit before tax increased by 19% UK 11.8% to 47.0 million, and earnings rose by 22% to 16.2 pence Other Europe 34.1% per share.
Net debt reduced further by 25 million to only Asia 33.8% Rest of the World 20.3% 63 million.
In the last three years we have lowered our net debt by 107 million, whilst improving earnings per share by 62%, despite the deep recession of 2009.
The Groups core business of Polymers accounted for 85% of Group revenue in 2010 and 88% of divisional operating profits.
Volumes were ahead in most areas of the business and operating profit increased by 10%, a good result after the strong improvement of 27% we achieved in 2009.
Our strategy in Polymers remains focused on geographical expansion around existing business hubs, further increasing our presence in emerging markets, particularly in Asia, and in developing market sectors where our technology, new product development and manufacturing capabilities give us a real Divisional operating profit % competitive advantage.
We started construction of 15,000 tonnes as derived from note 4 to financial statements on page 46 of new nitrile capacity during the year, and we expect production from this expansion to commence in the first half of 2011.
Polymer Chemicals 87.7% The Pharma business now represents just 10% of Group Pharma Chemicals 6.9% revenue, and 7% of divisional operating profit.
The business Impact Chemicals 5.4% started slowly, with a weak first quarter, but performance improved during the year.
Full year operating profit was 1.1 million below prior year.
Our one remaining Impact business, William Blythe, continued to improve generating 3.5 million of operating profit and we expect it will continue to show further improvement over the course of 2011.
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Yule Catto & Co plc Annual report and accounts 2010 05 PolymerLatex Acquisition I would like to thank all of our employees, whose continuing The highlight of the year was the acquisition of PolymerLatex support and contribution has made 2010 such a successful for a consideration of 376 million which we announced in year for the Group.
This is a transformational transaction for the Group, substantially increasing the scale and opportunities of Outlook our core Polymer business.
We anticipate eventual annual cost Looking forward, we will be reporting results for the enlarged synergies of 20 million from the integration of the business.
In our core markets, we continue to anticipate several years of low growth in Western markets with global growth The Groups balance sheet has also been strengthened generally driven by emerging markets.
Following the acquisition with the significant amount of equity and debt raised for the of PolymerLatex, we will have a stronger business in Europe acquisition, and my thanks go to our shareholders for their and we will remain well placed to access the attractive support in this important transaction.
We expect to complete opportunities in Asia and other emerging economies with over the transaction at the end of March.
a third of our combined Polymers business in these markets.
We continue to anticipate significant operational synergies from Dividend the acquisition and we expect the combined business will enjoy The Group returned to paying dividends at the half year, with additional market development opportunities.
an interim payment of 2 pence per share, with a commitment to pay at least 5 pence in total for the full year.
The remaining Raw material prices have risen strongly over recent months, 3 pence per share would equate to 4.4 million on the original exacerbated by the situation in the Middle East.
Both Yule Catto number of shares in issue prior to the acquisition of PolymerLatex.
and PolymerLatex have been successful in passing through At the time of the PolymerLatex announcement, the Group price increases in recent years, and we intend to continue to undertook to honour the cash commitment, and the final remain focused on this in the enlarged Group.
recommended dividend is therefore a cash dividend of 4.4 million, which, on the enlarged number of shares, Both Yule Catto and PolymerLatex have made a solid start equates to 1.3 pence per share.
to the year, and we are confident about the prospects for the enlarged Group in the years ahead.
Safety, Health and Environment The Group is absolutely committed to the continuous improvement of its performance in respect of Safety, Health and the Environment.
2010 marked the end of Yule Cattos first period of commitment to the Chemical Industries Sustainable Development goals.
I am delighted to report over the ten years Peter Wood of this commitment our performance has sharply improved, Chairman and the decade ended with all of our sustainability targets 9 March 2011 significantly bettered.
2010 was a very good year for Yule Catto, building on the strong improvement in Group performance delivered in 2009.
