Chairmans statement Sir Peter Gershon Chairman Richard Delbridge will be retiring as a nonResults executive director at the end of our 2010 AGM In this, my first year as Chairman, I am pleased after serving on the Board for the last ten to report that Tate & Lyle has responded well years.
During that time, Richard has served as to the near-term financial priorities set at the Chairman of our Audit Committee and as the start of the year, resulting in a stronger balance Senior Independent Director.
On behalf of the sheet and a solid overall performance in what Board, I would like to take this opportunity to have been challenging market conditions.
I am thank him for his wise counsel and outstanding delighted to welcome our new Chief Executive, service since 2000.
Robert Walker will replace Javed Ahmed, in whose report opposite you Richard as Senior Independent Director will find details of the years results.
at the conclusion of this years AGM.
Regrettably, it has been necessary to recognise total asset write-downs of 260million, including Strategy a very significant impairment of our investment We have announced our intention to refocus in the Fort Dodge, Iowa plant, in these accounts.
our strategy and prioritise our future investment I also recognise that large impairments have in speciality food ingredients.
We have also been made in each of the past five years.
The announced a number of important changes disciplines now being put in place are intended to our organisation and the way that we go to to support an improvement in our investment market.
These changes are described in more performance going forward.
detail in the Chief Executives review on pages 3 to 7.
Through these changes we will build the Dividend platform from which we will deliver sustainable The Board is recommending a maintained long-term growth.
final dividend of 16.1p, making a full-year dividend of 22.9p per share, in line with the Governance prior year.
The full-year dividend is covered Upon my succession as Chairman, in seeking 1.7times by earnings from continuing operations to continue to strengthen the governance before exceptional items and amortisation framework established under my predecessor, I of acquired intangible assets.
The proposed held a series of meetings with major shareholders final dividend will be due and payable on and directors.
A number of recommendations 30July2010 subject to shareholder approval, were agreed as an output from these meetings, to all shareholders on the Register of Members most of which have now been implemented.
In addition, I carried out the annual evaluation of the Boards effectiveness.
The evaluation Board consisted of one-to-one performance evaluation There have been a number of changes on meetings with each director and the Company the Board since the last AGM.
The Board is currently implementing in June2009, I succeeded Sir David Lees a number of recommendations arising from as Chairman following last years AGM and, this process.
on 1October 2009, Javed Ahmed succeeded IainFerguson as Chief Executive, thereby Overall, I am confident that the Tate & Lyle completing the final steps in the succession plan.
Board remains fit for purpose and continues to provide the highest standards of governance The Board was further strengthened during the and leadership.
period by the appointment of two new non-executive directors, Douglas Hurt and Sir Peter Gershon William Camp.
Chairman 26 May 2010 2 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010
