Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans statement After the challenges of recent years, Taylor being the costs of refinancing and further Wimpey has made strong progress during reviews of the carrying value of our land and 2010.
We have: work in progress in the United States and Spain.
This gives a loss before tax of Delivered significant operational 71.3 million 2009 loss: 699.9 million.
improvement, which is reflected in the Groups enhanced profitability: This recovery in underlying profitability owes much to the improvements made in all Increased the tangible net asset value areas of our business processes, which I per share: have been very impressed by and which will Completed the refinancing of the debt add significant value as we move forward.
facilities entered into in April 2009: and Refinancing In addition to this improvement in the Continued to support and develop our Companys financial performance, we people, including making a number have also made further progress in of changes to the membership of the After the challenges strengthening the Companys balance Board.
As we announced on 15 December 2010 performance of recent years, 2010, we have completed the refinancing In my first Chairmans statement, I am of our existing debt facilities, ahead of their delighted to be able to report a strong Taylor Wimpey maturity date in July 2012. improvement in the Companys financial performance during 2010 as the benefits The new arrangements provide a number has made strong of the strategy for recovery set out in last of benefits, including: years Annual Report take effect.
I look a simplified debt structure with progress during forward to building on this success during extended maturity profile: the course of my tenure.
2010. better blended interest rate of around We have recorded a profit before exceptional 7.5%: and items and tax of 75.1 million 2009 loss: 96.1 million.
Pre-tax exceptional items greater operational flexibility.
for the year are 146.4 million 2009: 603.8 million, with the major constituents Shareholder information Full details of the facilities available to shareholders can be found on page 111 of this Annual Report and Accounts and at www.
com InvestorRelations  Electronic communications We make our Annual Report available electronically to those shareholders who have not requested a paper version.
This has three key benefits: a significant reduction in printing and postage costs, without reducing the level of information available: faster access to information: and reducing the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, and lessening the impact of printing and mailing activities on the environment.
We also encourage shareholders to elect to receive notification of the availability of Company documentation by means of an e-mail.
Shareholders can sign up for this facility by logging onto our Web site.
htm 6 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review I would like to thank our shareholders and discuss both business and governance uncertainty of ongoing speculation debt providers for their ongoing support to matters, which I found very helpful regarding a potential change of ownership.
I look forward to further such Board changes meetings during the course of 2011 and Further information regarding the After seven years as Chairman of the to meeting with shareholders at the Annual refinancing is contained within Ryan Company, Norman Askew stood down at General Meeting on 21 April 2011.
Mangolds Group Financial Review on the end of June 2010.
During 2010, we have embedded our Company safely through unprecedented approach to corporate responsibility more market conditions and leaves it well North American operations fully into the day to day management of positioned for the future.
As recently announced, we are evaluating the business.
As such, although ultimate proposals for our North American I was appointed to the Board as Chairman responsibility continues to rest with the business and will update the market in on 1 July 2010 and I am delighted to have Group Chief Executive, Pete Redfern, due course.
joined an excellent Board, experienced, the Corporate Responsibility Committee unified and fully committed to the Dividends of the Board has been disbanded.
The Board did not consider it appropriate However, the Board will continue to to propose an interim dividend for 2010. review our corporate responsibility Ryan Mangold joined the Board as Group The uncertainty in the wider economy has strategy and reporting on a regular Finance Director in November 2010. eased somewhat during the second half basis.
Our Sustainability Steering Group, Ryan joined Taylor Wimpey in April 2009 of 2010, however, we are not proposing comprising seven senior personnel as Group Financial Controller and has a final dividend for 2010 2009 full year from relevant disciplines across our UK played an important role in delivering the dividend: nil.
business, coordinates our sustainability recent refinancing.
I would like to take this activities at the operational level and we opportunity to welcome him to theBoard We will continue to review our dividend continue to benefit from our excellent and thank his predecessor, Chris Rickard, policy in the light of Taylor Wimpeys and fully integrated health, safety and who stood down in November 2010, for financial position and prevailing economic environmental management system.
his significant contribution to the Group.
and market conditions in the future.
Our people As stated in last years Annual Report, Corporate responsibility I have been very impressed by what I have David Williams stood down as a Non As a major community developer, we seen of our business and our people so Executive Director on 31 March 2010. have social, ethical, environmental and far.
They have demonstrated a very strong Rob Rowley, who joined the Board on 1 economic responsibilities that we take work ethic, together with huge pride, January 2010, succeeded David as Senior extremely seriously.
We believe that creativity and responsibility in support of Independent Director in addition to his role corporate responsibility is an essential part the Company as well as the homes and as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
of good governance and makes sound communities that we build.
business sense, as well as being crucial We have recently announced that Katherine for risk and opportunity management.
We would like to record our thanks to Innes Ker and Andrew Dougal will be all of the people within our business and stepping down as Non Executive Directors Following my appointment in July 2010, particularly those in our North American immediately prior to the Annual General I was also very pleased to meet with a business who have had the additional Meeting, after long and distinguished number of our major shareholders to service to the Board.
Katherine has served on the Board for more than nine years and Andrew for more than eight.
As announced in February 2011, I am Corporate governance very pleased that Kate Barker will be Strong corporate governance is, if anything, even more essential in challenging joining the Board as a Non Executive market conditions.
Director with effect from 21 April 2011.
Kate brings a wealth of economic and The Board undertook a comprehensive review of the new UK Corporate Governance political experience as well as a detailed Code UKCGC in September 2010 in order to ensure that we are ready to comply with knowledge of the housing industry.
We also undertook a Board Evaluation during 2010 and, going forward, I would like to record the Boards will conduct this process via an external facilitator once every three years, as set out in enormous gratitude to Norman, Chris, the UKCGC.
David, Katherine and Andrew for their All Directors will be submitting themselves for election or re-election at this years contributions in what have been some Annual General Meeting.
A full report on our corporate governance activities can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 34 to 40 which confirms that the Company was again compliant with the Combined Code.
Visit our Web site Kevin Beeston www.
com InvestorRelations CorporateGovernance Chairman 7 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
