08 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Review of the Year Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement Substantial historical growth, together with the considered investments that we have made to support future growth, ensures that we remain the leading network-independent data centre operator in Europe.
John Hughes CBE Chairman I am delighted that TelecityGroup is again Opening highly connected data centres to meet reporting an excellent set ofresults.
our customers growing demand takes long-term planning and skilled execution.
We have now TelecityGroup was admitted to the London secured data centre sites that will provide growth Stock Exchange in October 2007.
Since then, capacity in our core markets for several years into itsrevenue has doubled.
These sites will continue to leverage inlinewith the strategy of pursuing controlled, the excellent levels of connectivity and the sustainable growth, its EBITDA has increased valuable customer ecosystems within our over threefold, and earnings growth has been existing buildings.
Our business is not only about infrastructure, This substantial historical growth, together with though.
As a supplier to many of the worlds leading the considered investments that we have made companies, we also provide our customers with to support future growth, ensures that we remain excellent service and operational expertise.
the leading network-independent data centre Aspart of this, we strive tolead our industry in the operator in Europe.
development and practice of energy-efficient technologies and infrastructure management.
It is our highly connected data centre infrastructure that is underpinning so much of the enormous I am pleased to report that we are in the final growth of the digital economy.
The increase in stages of the appointment of an additional demand for our data centres continues unabated independent non-executive Director to the as both individuals and organisations seek to Board following a thorough recruitment process share and access information and applications commented on in our Corporate Governance online, quickly, securely, anytime and anywhere.
This will bring the Board and its Committees into full compliance with the new UK Corporate There have been developments that have Governance Code in the timescale we committed continued to introduce new dynamics to the to at the time of our IPO.
evolving make-up of our customer base over thelast year.
The greater uptake of streaming This year, we have made enhancements to our content, the ubiquity of effective mobile web Annual Report as part of our commitment to devices and a growing use of cloud computing clarity and transparency in our reporting.
I hope are just some examples.
In short, our customers that you will find these enhancements helpful.
ongoing ambition to embrace the opportunities We intend to continue this process of and efficiencies that new technologies offer, improvement in future years.
continues to drive the growing fundamental need for highly connected data centres.
Finally, I would like to thank all of TelecityGroups employees for the invaluable contribution that they make to our continuing success.
I look forward to working with them through 2011.
John Hughes CBE Chairman 8 February 2011 The Chairman's Statement forms part of, and should be read inconjunction with, the Directors Report on pages 36 to 38.
Testing fibre installation Untitled-3 8 25 02 2011 10:13:41 growth Our state-of-the-art services are designed to fit customers evolving needs, while our expansion programme ensures we have the ability to support our long-term business growth.
A significant proportion of our growth comes from ourexisting customer base, where demand is driven by the growth of the digital economy.
