Overview Over the past decade Tesco has transformed itself into a diverse international business and by following our consistent strategy we are well positioned for long-term growth.
I am pleased to report that Thailand and for the first time we the Tesco team has once again now have more Clubcard holders delivered a good set of results internationally than in the UK.
guided by experienced It has been another significant year management who have steered the business through recessions for our work on the environment and before.
As markets around the within local communities.
As we grow, world are emerging from this our customers increasingly look to recession each part of our business Tesco to take the lead in these areas is well positioned to pursue our and we are.
In January, we opened the worlds first zero-carbon store at Ramsey in We have continued to grow sales, profits and market share over the Cambridgeshire the latest step in past year.
Weve also significantly our journey to reduce the carbon strengthened our balance sheet.
Over the past year we have made significant Our acquisition in South Korea progress towards our long-term goals is performing well and delivering by reducing our emissions by 7.8% excellent results, weve opened on our baseline 2006 7 store and our first three Tesco Lifespace distribution portfolio.
shopping malls in China and we have made good progress building This year we donated over 60m to the infrastructure and developing charities once again exceeding our new products for Tesco Bank.
target to give the equivalent of 1% of our profits to good causes.
I am also pleased to announce that we again increased our dividend for the These good results are testament 26th consecutive year.
This consistent to the hard work of our people.
The track record of delivering dividend Tesco team is now 472,000 strong growth for shareholders is unrivalled and we remain united by our goal to in the FTSE 100. improve the shopping trip for our customers.
I would like to thank all The strong Group results over the last our people for their hard work which year have been achieved through a I know will continue in the year ahead.
constant focus on what matters most to customers in challenging times around the world.
A good example of this has been our renewed focus on rewarding loyalty at home and abroad which has been a great success with customers.
David Reid Chairman In the UK, we increased our Clubcard investment with Double Points giving customers even greater reward for their loyalty.
Internationally, we launched Clubcard in three more countries during the year in Poland, Slovakia and Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 1
