Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Directors Report Chairmans statement PROGRESS ON STRATEGIC INITIATIVES Total dividend Our management team has made robust 10.75p and encouraging progress during the year, 2009: 10.75p despite a weak economic climate and other .
The Group results were impacted by At the forthcoming AGM, I will be standing for THE BOARD the challenging economic and trading re-election for a further year.
The Nominations The Board has made solid progress in its environment but, despite this, the Group Committee, under the leadership of the Senior first year of leading a fully independent delivered a signi cant improvement in Independent Director, is in the early stages Company.
We are committed to high standards cash ow performance and the adjusted of a process to identify my successor with the of corporate governance and we are fully underlying pro t from operations was only aim of making an announcement during the compliant with the Combined Code on down 6% on the prior year.
We recently conducted our annual Board evaluation, the output of The progress made against a number of EXECUTIVE TEAM which will help further develop Board and strategic initiatives, such as destination Manny Fontenla-Novoa and his executive Committee effectiveness.
management, airline synergies and the team have together made robust and setting up of an Online Travel Agent, coupled encouraging progress in a challenging During the year, we strengthened our Board with our successful re nancing in May, will marketplace.
The Board would like to with a number of non-executive and executive serve us well in our drive to grow shareholder thank them and con rm our con dence appointments.
Peter Middleton and Dawn value.
The Board believes that the decisive in their ability to address the challenges Airey joined the Board as Independent Nonactions taken to reinforce our UK segment that lieahead.
Executive Directors on 30 November 2009 and will place that business in a stronger position 12 April 2010 respectively.
On 6 November EMPLOYEES for the future.
2009, Sam Weihagen, Chief Executive Of cer, Our employees remain central to the future Northern Europe, took on the additional role With a trusted brand portfolio and a proven success of the Group.
There can be no better of Deputy to the Group Chief Executive Of cer ability to manage our business, we will example of dedication to customer service and joined the Board as an Executive Director.
continue to meet the needs of our customers than their response to the closure of airspace Paul Hollingworth joined the Board on 1 in the future.
due to the volcanic ash cloud.
With sound January 2010 as Group Chief Financial Of cer.
values and a range of skills and experience, DIVIDEND Peter Marks, the Group Chief Executive we believe they are our key differentiator in a The Board is recommending a final dividend of The Co-operative Group, will join the highly competitive global industry.
On behalf of 7.0 pence per share, which when combined Board upon completion of the UK Retail of the Board and shareholders, I would like with the interim dividend of 3.75 pence per joint venture with The Co-operative Group to thank them for their dedication and high share paid on 8 October 2010, makes a total and Midlands Co-operative.
Each of our standards, which they continue to maintain.
dividend for the year of 10.75 pence per new Directors brings a wealth of welcome share.
Whilst we are committed to optimising THE FUTURE experience to the Boards deliberations.
value for our shareholders and understand Based on our solid foundations, the actions Jrgen Bser stepped down from the Board as the importance of dividends to them, our taken in the UK and the progress against a Group Chief Financial Of cer on 29 November recommendation to maintain the same level wide range of strategic initiatives, the Board 2009 and, having recovered well following a of dividend re ects last years performance is con dent that the Group is well positioned period of ill health, returned to the business to in a challenging operating environment.
The to make progress in the current year.
take up the role of Group Strategy Director on total dividend for the year represents a payout the Group Executive Board.
Nigel Northridge, of 47% of adjusted diluted earnings per one of our Non-Executive Directors, resigned share and is in line with our policy of paying from the Board on 25 March 2010, to pursue between 40% and 50% of adjusted earnings broader responsibilities within his portfolio of by way ofdividend.
Michael Beckett Once approved, the final dividend will be Chairman On behalf of the Board, I would like to payable on 7 April 2011 to holders of relevant 30 November 2010 thank Jrgen and Nigel for their contribution shares registered on 18 March 2011. to theGroup.
