Chairmans Statement Autonomys growth this year is measured against good growth last year, and the year before, and so on.
Not many software companies have been so fortunate.
Investing fashions come and go, but more customers buy more of Autonomys software for more money every year.
Autonomy has a suite of products which are all based on its Intelligent Data Operating Layer IDOL.
This is a series of algorithms, patented and unique, which power the information systems of more than 20,000 customers all over the world.
Although 2010 was a volatile year for many countries, economies and companies, sales of Autonomys IDOL continued to grow steadily, as they have done every year since just after the millennium and virtually every year since its founding in 1996.
For Autonomy, growth this year is measured against good growth last year, and the year before, and so on.
Investing fashions come and go, and investor interest in the characteristics of the ever-changing world of software development ebbs and flows, but more customers buy more of Autonomys software for more money every year.
In last years Annual Report I previewed some Board changes which have now been made.
It is an appropriate moment to thank the retiring directors Richard Perle and Barry Ariko for the immense contribution each of them made during their years with the company.
It is time too to welcome Professor Frank Kelly, Master of Christs College Cambridge, to the Board and to the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee, and Jonathan Bloomer, who chairs the Audit Committee.
We are seeking one more Non Executive Director whose appointment we hope to announce in due course.
The success of Autonomy over the last few years is plain to see.
Although it has, I believe, one of the lowest paid management teams in the FTSE 100, it has over the last six years delivered nearly 800% share price improvement to its shareholders.
At the same time I believe Autonomy is well positioned to continue to deliver similar growth in the business as it not only consolidates its existing areas of application but also extends the power of IDOL into new areas of human activity.
New areas for Autonomy during 2010 included its first efforts in the massive and expanding healthcare market.
There are new exciting developments to come in 2011 from our extensive research facilities both in Cambridge and in the USA, on which we spend over $135 million a year.
Many of these current developments are discussed in this Annual Report which, as each year passes, continues to expand in narrative and detail showing how Autonomy measures and manages this growth.
More information on Autonomy still is to be found not only in the weighty descriptive books which separately describe the Protect, Promote and Power usage cases of IDOL about which youll read more in this Report but also on the companys website, which includes an interactive question and answer forum, and of course in the regular financial reporting.
2011 should see a continuation of this trend of research, growth and profit.
Although Autonomy makes big acquisitions only rarely there have been only three in its 15-year history it currently has over $1 billion in the bank and is well placed to transact.
It will only do this if the right opportunity comes along.
2 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chairmans Statement That right opportunity is likely to be one which allows Autonomy to build on Innovation in the ways in which our technology gets to market, and the proven core competency of IDOL, at the heart of all Autonomys expansion into other sectors, can continue to make important contributions business, whether through direct purchase, leasing or licensing from to our societies.
This kind of innovation is important both for the wider Autonomys own fast-growing private cloud.
benefits it brings and because it broadens and enhances the base on which our business is built.
A year ago my comments focussed on the strong performance by the company during 2009, rather than on the unprecedented economic downWhat we are today, and what we can become tomorrow, flows directly from turn following the global financial crisis.
This perspective is critical to the skills, dedication and attitude of our people.
Having spent significant understanding Autonomys relative performance during 2010 and our time at Autonomy offices around the world during the year, I can report that optimism for the future.
Autonomy correctly positioned for crisis.
When the strength in Autonomys staff and all levels of management is a hidden others were just beginning to shake off the dust of disaster, Autonomy was competitive advantage.
The various teams are composed of leaders who repositioning for smoother sailing having entered the harbour safely.
have enabled the accomplishments to date and are dedicated to the companys future.
I thank them all unreservedly for their resilience, commitment and contribution.
But then Autonomy is no ordinary company.
The software developer is one of the few UK technology 2011 will be another exciting year.
We hope to build on the progress that companies to have turned its world-leading technology the company has made during the year, with established market leadership into a world-leading business.
The Times, Oct. 2009 and world-beating products coupled with renewed positioning and an energized team.
Autonomys business remains essentially simple: to continue to provide Thus I finish on an optimistic note.
Autonomy has cash in the bank, skills world-leading technology that takes advantage of the fundamental shift and motivation in the workforce, great products in production and more in from structured to unstructured information.
Because of this simple focus, the laboratories.
We look forward to seeing some of them rolled out in the Autonomy continues to operate profitably and efficiently.
This has lead to a coming year.
For the present, it remains only to thank our shareholders, cash balance which well positions the company for the corporate-level our employees and our customers for their continued confidence in, and activities and investment we as a Board and you as shareholders expect it study of, the company.
to undertake prudently, the same activities that have contributed to that return on investment in shares over the past decade.
Robert S. Webb QC Chairman 22 February 2011 We are delighted to have received a number of high-profile awards during 2010.
These recognise our achievements as a business and the strength of the technology we provide and how it is delivered.
Here are a selection from 2010: Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3
