Chairmans statement A quality gold producer Our first year has not been without challenges, all of which have been dealt with decisively by our management team with the full support of the Board.
Aaron Regent Recommended final dividend per share US 3.7cents Dear Shareholders, It is a privilege to present ABGs first annual report as a listed Company.
enabled the Directors to recommend a final dividend of US3.7 cents perOrdinary Share, in addition to the interim dividend of US1.6 cents I am delighted to be able to serve as Chairman of the new Company per share that we paid in September.
as it establishes its own identity in the public markets.
ABG has come to market at a time of unprecedented interest in the gold industry, Throughout 2010, we have focused on continually improving against a background of continuing global economic uncertainty.
productivity and efficiency at our existing operations while reviewing We have set some challenging objectives for ourselves to grow the opportunities for new sources of value to enhance growth.
In this business over the medium-to-long term, and I am convinced that we way, we have sought to underpin the Companys long-term future and have the management team, the asset base and the financial resources to deliver on our commitment to realise value for our shareholders.
As we move into 2011, our business strategy will remain to optimise, expand and grow.
Our ability to deliver on this strategy is based on Our first year has not been without challenges, all of which have been thefundamental strengths described below.
dealt with decisively by our management team with the full support of the Board.
Despite these, our production for 2010 was still in excess High-quality asset base of 700,000 ounces, which enabled us to deliver robust financial results In total, over US$2 billion has been invested in the current asset for our shareholders.
Our revenues were US$975 million, we had an base of the Company, and we intend to maintain this commitment operating cash flow of US$345 million and net income of US$218 in the future.
This underpins the four operating mines, our range of million, with a net cash balance in excess of US$400 million at the end development projects, 26.9 million ounces of reserves and resources, of the year.
This provides us with the significant strategic flexibility we need as we look to grow the business in the coming years.
It has also and substantial land holdings for exploration.
com 8 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Operational expertise ABG ethics In Tanzania, we have grown our business from zero production Our core values are rooted in honesty, integrity, the highest ethical to over700,000 ounces through the acquisition, development and standards and a commitment to corporate responsibility.
As one of the operation of four high-quality mines.
This experience provides a largest foreign investors in Tanzania, we are determined to contribute significant competitive advantage when assessing growth opportunities not only to the national economy, but also to the socio-economic throughout Africa.
development of our host communities, leaving a positive legacy for future generations.
We are committed to operating in a socially Experienced leadership and management strength responsible way over the life cycle of our mines.
We recognise that fostering strong and mutually beneficial relationships with our host We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate communities is critical if we are to secure a social licence to operate governance.
Our Board consists of some of the most respected figures in and realise the social and economic opportunities it presents.
It possesses the expertise, knowledge, experience and commitment necessary to help us achieve our business objectives.
Outlook Collectively, the Board sets our standards, values and strategic aims and reviews all material strategic issues, financial performance, risk As we go into 2011, I remain optimistic about the prospects for our management and critical business issues.
industry and I believe that ABG is well positioned to continue to be one of the leading players within the African gold mining industry.
We must Furthermore, at the time of our initial public offering and through apply the lessons learned from the challenges we have already faced and subsequent additions of talent and expertise throughout the year, overcome to deliver on the potential of our asset base and reward our we have put in place a management team with substantial industry shareholders for their loyalty throughout 2010. experience critically, one with the capacity both to maximise the value of our existing assets and to deliver the growth we have targeted.
The coming year will not be without its challenges but I am convinced that we have the elements in place to achieve our objectives.
Finally, Growth potential I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their hard work, dedication and valuable guidance throughout the year, and I look Our existing mines offer a number of additional opportunities to forward to reporting again on our progress in 12 months time.
grow their existing production levels.
Coupled with other greenfield potential, such as the Nyanzaga Project, and our capability and appetite for acquisitions, we have a range of growth options for the business.
Balance sheet With a production platform successfully generating strong cash flows, over US$400 million of net cash and an unused US$150 million credit facility, we have significant balance sheet strength and the flexibility Aaron Regent, Chairman needed both to carry out our organic growth plans and to realistically assess acquisition opportunities.
Our supportive majority shareholder We have access to industry-leading expertise and a strong talent pool to augment our own resources through our relationship with our majority shareholder, Barrick.
We believe that this provides an important source of advantage over our competitors.
As we go into 2011, I remain optimistic about the prospects for our industry and I believe that ABG is well positioned to continue to be one of the leading players within it.
