12 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 Robert Walker, Chairman INTRODUCTION I am pleased to present my first statement to shareholders as Chairman of Travis Perkins and to report on a year of substantial progress across the Group, in spite of the deepest recession that most of us can remember.
Increased revenues, together with a continuing focus on cash generation, cost reduction and margin protection, have produced an excellent set of results in the current economic circumstances.
A further highlight was the acquisition of The BSS Group plc BSS at the end of 2010.
As a result, the Group now has a better balanced set of businesses focussed on three segments: merchanting, retail and BSS.
All these businesses were characterised by increasing market share, focussed strategies and self-help initiatives.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO PURSUE OUR ORGANIC GROWTH STRATEGy, WHICH IS DELIVERING INCREASING MARKET SHARE AND SALES PERFORMANCE RESULTS EMPLOyEES The Groups reported revenue in 2010 rose by almost 8% to over 3.1bn We continue to enjoy the support and loyalty of very committed and our adjusted pre-tax profits climbed by 20% to almost 217m.
We are investing to develop our people and we go to considAdjusted earnings per share before the consolidation of the last two erable lengths to ensure that we provide the best incentives and career weeks of trading at BSS through the traditional Christmas shutdown progression possible.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our increased by 5% to 78.8 pence, and on a reported adjusted basis, rose colleagues throughout the Group for their contributions to the success 3% to 77.2p per share.
Importantly, every single business in the Group, of the business.
from Travis Perkins merchants and Wickes DIY through to each individual specialist business, increased market share in its segment and grew OUTLOOK sales and profitability.
Once again, underlying net debt fell, this time by 205m, to 262m, Conditions for the next 12 months remain difficult.
There is considerable before taking account of the acquisition of BSS.
gloom in the wider economy, but we do not subscribe to the double-dip Gross capital expenditure for the year was 65m.
The merchanting market fell by over 30% from its peak in 2008 which included an equity element of 329m, was spent on acquisitions.
and although activity has picked up a little, from a longer term perspecI am also pleased to report that as a result of actions taken, including tive, activity levels are currently around 20% below their peak.
Although making a 35m one-off special contribution, and improved investment we will probably see some turbulence in short term trends, we expect performance, the Travis Perkins final salary pension scheme is now into activity levels to continue their gradual recovery.
In contrast, we expect an accounting surplus of 32m.
the retail market to continue to be soft.
We will continue to pursue our organic growth strategy, which is delivering increasing market share and sales performance.
This process of DIVIDEND continual improvement is supported by many new initiatives that we will In view of the Groups improved prospects and strengthened financial implement during the course of the year.
position, I am pleased to recommend to shareholders, on behalf of the Our key objectives to drive financial performance in 2011 are to Board, a final dividend of 10p per share.
Together with the interim divicontinue the Groups strategy of organic growth and to integrate BSS so dend of 5.0p per share paid last November, the total dividend for 2010 we get the best out of the acquisition.
We have proved we can generate will amount to 15p per share, which will absorb 35m of cash.
Our objecsuperior returns from businesses in our sector: we will continue to drive tive is to grow dividends ahead of earnings so as to reduce dividend cover all our businesses for cash generation.
to between 2.5 times and 3.5 times over the medium term.
We look forward to another year of good progress.
ACqUISITION OF BSS The acquisition of BSS was the significant event of 2010 for the Group, for a total consideration of 624m, a combination of cash and equity.
BSS is a well established and proven quality business with excellent people.
The Robert Walker prospects for the business are exciting and we look forward to working Chairman together to achieve the synergistic benefits from the combination of our two 22 February 2011 businesses, and to invest in further growth.
On behalf of all employees of Travis Perkins, I am delighted to welcome the BSS team into our Group.
We now have the leading plumbing business in the UK to add to the leading positions represented by other group businesses.
