Directors Report: Business review Chairmans statement Making history 2010 was a very good year.
In particular, Ghana and the Jubilee Partnership made history with First Oil and we had another year of exceptional exploration success.
Making history in Ghana Good financial performance Tullows highlight of 2010 was achieving First Oil 2010 revenue benefited from higher oil prices offset from the Jubilee field offshore Ghana with formal by slightly lower sales volumes.
First Oil in Ghana celebrations held on 15 December 2010.
We are now will transform Tullows financial profile in 2011. a deepwater development operator having delivered During the year we raised $1.45 billion from an production on schedule, within 5% of the original equity placing and took the opportunity, based on budget.
The facilities uptime has been exceptional good operational performance and a strengthening todate at approximately 90% and we will continue external environment, to increase our debt capacity.
toramp-up production over the coming months.
Exceptional exploration and appraisal success 2010 was another year of exceptional exploration and appraisal E&A delivery.
We achieved an 83% For more information on Jubilee special feature success ratio, finding hydrocarbons in 24 out of delivering First Oil in Ghana see 40 months from discovery to First Oil Jubilee special feature 29 E&A wells during the year.
1,500 people active on the project 370 On 15 December 2010, His Excellency million barrels John Atta Mills, President of Ghana P50 reserves Making led the celebrations to mark First Oil from the Jubilee field offshore Ghana.
With its partners, Tullow achieved this In Ghana, highlights were the discovery of Enyenra milestone only 40 months after the first discovery in 2007, a new benchmark for the industry.
120,000 Keith Mutimer, Production Operations Manager, Ghana with Bopd gross production His Ex valc five e f llency John Atta Mills, Pr or First Oil on the Jubileesident of Ghana, opening the e field FPSO, offshore Ghana.
history capacity p28 formerly Owo, subsequently proved to be a major 28 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts www.
com 29 oil field, and the successful appraisal of the Tweneboa field.
The Mercury-1 discovery well in Sierra Leone also extended the Jubilee play more than 1,000 km west of Ghana.
The EquatorialAtlantic play represents an important opportunity for further exploration and new basin opening potential in both West Africa and South America.
We had a 10 out of 10 success ratio in Uganda and We made remarkable progress have made good progress in developing new E&A in 2010 and are building Tullow targets in the Lake Albert Rift Basin.
We are in great seeking to replicate our Ugandan success elsewhere in the East African Rift Basins and have acquired six shape and in a strong position contiguous licences in Kenya and Ethiopia.
We have as Africas leading independent an exciting high-impact E&A programme of some 40 wells planned in 2011 and already we have had oil company.
seven out of nine successes.
Pat Plunkett, Chairman 14 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p12-p27 AW.
indd 14 14 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:32 09:32 2 Strong production and development performance Growth in employees The performance of our global assets in 2010 was very strong with production of 58,100 boepd.
40% year-on-year increase in full time employees in 2010 Contingent Resources increased by 500 mmboe during the year and our three-year reserves replacement ratio is 250%.
1,000 935 900 The contribution from the Jubilee field will considerably increase Group production in 2011, to 800 an expected average of between 86,000 and 92,000 700 669 boepd.
This broader range is more appropriate given the weighting of the Jubilee field production in our 600 540 portfolio and the timing uncertainty of when Jubilee 500 will reach gross plateau production of 120,000 barrels 400 of oil per day bopd.
370 300 A pipeline of development projects continues to be 250 built from the exceptional results of our exploration 200 programmes and this will build our production 100 profile in the medium term.
06 07 08 09 10 0 The Tullow team The quality and commitment of the Tullow team Risk management is our leading strength as an organisation and we In 2010, we again enhanced our risk management welcomed over 250 new employees during 2010 to processes and procedures including: the Group who will further enhance our capabilities The Jubilee project team implemented an in many parts of the business.
Our total workforce operational readiness and assurance OR&A grew to 1,232, also up 40% year-on-year.
We employ plan to manage transition risks from 680 people in Africa, of whom over 65% are development to production: localnationals.
A Financial Risk Committee was established with Environment, Health and Safety the objective of ensuring the overall framework The management of EHS remains a core priority.
for financial risk management is comprehensive During 2010, we delivered a strong EHS performance and responsive to changes in the business: and across the organisation while progressing a number of key EHS initiatives.
Of particular note was the We reacted, as outlined above and on page 42 EHS performance on the Jubilee deepwater ofthis report, to the Macondo incident in the development, which delivered excellent EHS results Gulfof Mexico.
during the course of a diverse and challenging Dividend policy project with many complex and potentially The Board feels it is appropriate to continue to hazardous operations.
observe a stable dividend policy for 2010.
The final We reviewed well control which relates to dividend proposed is 4.0 pence per share, which prevention and oil spill response in Ghana in the brings the total payout for 2010 to 6.0 pence per immediate aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon share.
The dividend will be paid on 20 May 2011 incident in the Macondo prospect in the Gulf of to shareholders on the register on 15 April 2011.
Mexico: and we have continued with our follow-up The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held throughout the year at operational and Board level.
on 12 May 2011 in Haberdashers Hall in London.
A meeting for shareholders in Ireland will be held Our safety performance was good but did not on 2 June 2011 in the Royal College of Physicians of achieve our objective of top quartile industry Ireland in Dublin.
indd 15 15 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:32 09:32 Directors Report: Business review Chairmans statement Directors Report: Business review Chairmans statement continued Board changes Ghana listing In August 2010, Tutu Agyare was appointed to the In November 2010, we announced that we were Board as a non-executive Director.
Tutu has had an planning a secondary listing on the Ghana Stock extensive career in investment banking and is Exchange.
This was in order to create a more currently a Managing Partner at an Africa-focused accessible opportunity for Ghanaian individuals and hedge fund.
Tutu brings a wealth of experience institutions to invest in the future of their oil industry in banking and invaluable knowledge of doing through Tullow.
Originally planned for December, the business in Africa to the Group, as we continue Listing was postponed due to the need to focus on to expand our business there.
achieving First Oil from the Jubilee field and year-end corporate planning.
The Listing is now At the AGM in May, Clare Spottiswoode CBE will planned to go ahead as soon as practicable after retire from the Board of Tullow having served as a the issue of this Annual Report.
Director for over nine years including three years asthe Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Establishing a major new partnership in Uganda On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Clare In 2010, we took the opportunity to pre-empt a deal for her immense contribution.
Following Clares agreed by our partner in Uganda when it decided to departure from the Board, David Bamford will become sell its stake.
In parallel we agreed to farm down two the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
thirds of our interests to CNOOC and Total to create a like-minded, aligned partnership.
The Board has appointed Simon Thompson as a non-executive Director with effect from 16 May 2011.
However, a transaction of this size and importance takes time to negotiate and finalise, particularly in Simon was previously an executive Director of AngloAmerican plc, Chairman of the Tarmac Group an election year.
Large scale oil development is new to Uganda and it is important to get the appropriate and also held investment banking positions with SG Warburg and N M Rothschild.
Heis currently fiscal and legal framework in place for the long-term benefit of all parties.
anon-executive Director of Newmont Mining Corporation, Sandvik AB and AMEC plc.
After many months of discussion, we are close to signing an MoU with the GoU.
This agreement will Finally, I would like to announce that after over satisfy the GoUs taxation concerns and enable 12 years as a non-executive Director of Tullow Tullow, CNOOC and Total to proceed with the and10 years as the Chairman, I have advised the basin-wide development with the full support and Board that now would be a good time to identify commitment of the GoU.
The Board plans to commence the search after this years AGM and expects to make Finalising the Ugandan farm-down will secure an appointment prior to the AGM in 2012. ourfunding for the medium term and ensure we are adequately capitalised to develop our major Key Performance Indicators projects, fund our high-impact exploration We measure the performance of the business with programme and achieve our strategic objectives.
seven key KPIs together with specific objectives for major projects, finance and managing our portfolio Outlook of assets.
In 2010, we did well against our targets This time last year I wrote that Tullow had a very with the main exceptions being TSR targets and bright future after an outstanding 2009.
We continued ongoing delays in Uganda.
to make remarkable progress in 2010 towards our vision of being the leading global independent exploration and production company.
Our excellent For more information on performance is due to Aidan Heavey, his Executive KPIs colleagues and all our employees who are building the Group year-on-year.
Tullow is in great shape and in a strong position as Africas leading independent p10 oil company.
Pat Plunkett, Chairman 16 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p12-p27 AW.
indd 16 16 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 13:11 13:11 Governance highlights 2 An externally facilitated evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was undertaken in 2010.
Overall the Board performance reports concluded that the Board had been effective during the year.
Graham Martin, General Counsel and Company Secretary For more information on p 72 Corporate governance 2010 Board objectives 2010 Board performance Corporate strategy Ensure Board focus is on high-level issues In 2010, 45% of the Boards time was devoted to strategy, including the evolving Uganda and strategy situation.
A number of external advisers presented to the Board on topics including theequity and debt markets in relation to our sector, current economic and political Invite suitable external advisers and speakers developments in our African areas of interest and stakeholder engagement.
to Board meetings to stimulate discussion The Board performance report identified the need to continue to improve the strategy and debate development process and to allocate sufficient time to strategic debate and the consideration of alternative strategies for the achievement of corporate objectives.
Succession planning Appoint external advisers External advisers were appointed during the year.
Consider matters within Nominations These were reviewed and revised appropriately.
Committee terms of reference Develop a clear roadmap for non-executive A suitable roadmap was devised and its implementation has already begun successfully.
Director refreshment and Chairman succession See the Report of the Nominations Committee for further details on page 84.
Tutu Agyares appointment during the year has increased the Boards African expertise and within the Increase African profile of Tullow Board, organisation we have continued to recruit Africans to senior management positions.
management andstaff Consider development plan for each of the Development plans for the Executives and senior management have been discussed Executives andsenior management and are now being implemented.
The Board performance report identified the need to formalise and continue these efforts and to ensure they cover general compliance training as well as sector-specific training.
Board training and administration Select suitable external courses for In accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman will agree non-executive Directors and Executives individual training plans for each of the Directors, tailored to their respective skills and and formalise Directors trainingregister requirements, and a formal Training Register will be established.
Continue to review membership Membership of the Committees was reviewed in 2010 and it was agreed that no change of Board Committees was required at that stage.
However, the issue will be reviewed again in 2011 after the announced changes to the Board have taken place.
Investigate electronic web-based solutions Some progress was made in electronic web-based Board administration in 2010 but for Board administration a more thorough review will be undertaken in 2011.
Board visibility and Group communications Attendance of Directors at Group functions The Executive Directors made numerous visits to key offices in 2010 and attended various functions with staff.
The full Board visited Ghana prior to First Oil, giving them a chance Demonstrate support for key offices to meet a wide cross-section of staff there.
Some of the non-executive Directors also visited other offices during the course of the year and attended staff events.
The Board Consider further non-executive Director visits performance report noted that the non-executive Directors were committed to such visits to key offices and to improving the accessibility of the Board to all staff and recommended that advantage be taken of this commitment.
Improve accessibility of Board to all staff www.
indd 17 17 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:32 09:32 Directors Report: Business review Governance highlights
