Report of the Directors About Unilever Chairmans statement 2010 has been another year of solid progress for Unilever.
TheGroup saw accelerated volume growth ahead of our markets, continued improvement in underlying operating margin and strongcash generation.
This was a significant achievement who will be retiring after nine years.
also visited Germany in the year to review inaworld struggling to come to terms Overthe last few years, Jeroen has made the Western European business, which withan economic crisis, weighed down an outstanding contribution in his role returned to volume growth in 2010. by low consumer confidence, high asVice-Chairman & Senior Independent unemployment and sluggish growth Director.
He has also been an invaluable We conducted a review of our corporate indeveloped markets.
source of advice and support to me.
governance procedures during the year.
Thishas been recorded and published Unilevers already strong reputation inan updated version of our document forresponsible business practice was It is our intention to nominate Sunil entitled The Governance of Unilever.
enhanced still further by the launch BhartiMittal from India for election to the TheBoard participated in enhanced oftheUnilever Sustainable Living Plan Board asaNon-Executive Director at the training programmes in 2010, aground-breaking contribution which 2011 AGMs.
I am very pleased that Sunil concentrating on further instruction setsout our social and environmental has agreed to join us.
We believe his andfamiliarisation with Unilever and its ambitions for the coming decade business acumen and experience in business.
This has been achieved in formal seepage 20. developing markets will further knowledge sessions for the Non-Executive strengthen the expertise of the Board.
Innovation is the lifeblood of any consumer goods company and the Board The focus of the Board in 2010 has been Most importantly, the Board also spent is also pleased to see Unilevers brands on strategy and governance.
The strategy alot of time during the year reviewing getting stronger and its pipeline of was reviewed in detail by the Board thetalent pool of senior management.
innovations becoming even more robust.
during a visit to Brazil with an emphasis We were pleased, as part of this review, The portfolio is also being sharpened on sharpening the Groups vision and on tosee the significant step up being through a number of acquisitions, the choices needed to enable Unilever to madein leadership development, as well inparticular the Sara Lee Personal Care win in increasingly competitive markets.
as thecontinuing progress in the area business and the announced acquisition Akey element of the strategy is the ofdiversity and the award of most desired ofAlberto Culver.
ambitious plan to take advantage of the employer status in many places around enormous growth opportunities offered the world.
In 2010 we welcomed two new Directors by the emerging markets of Asia Africa to the Board.
Joining the non-executive CEE and Latin America.
These markets This could not have beenachieved ranks was Sir Malcolm Rifkind who already account for more than 50% without the commitment, dedication hastaken over the chairmanship of our ofUnilevers business.
We start from andhard work of Unilevers 167,000 Corporate Responsibility and Reputation astrong base therefore in reaching the employees spread across overahundred Committee.
Jean-Marc Hut was also growing number of people in these countries.
On behalf ofthe Board I would elected to the Board in his capacity markets who share the same aspirations like to thank themfor their efforts.
We could not have chosen a better venue since Brazil is At the 2011 AGMs in May we will be home to one of Unilevers fastest growing saying goodbye to Jeroen van der Veer and most dynamic companies.
The Board Michael Treschow Chairman 4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors About Unilever 1 Engaging with the business In addition to providing governance oversight, ourexperienced Board members actively engage with the business, helping to advance strategic issues by gaining a stronger insight into the Group and sharing their expertise.
Jeroen van der Veer Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent Director 2.
Paul Polman Chief Executive Officer Michael Treschow Chairman pictured on page 4 2 3.
Ann Fudge Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 6.
Hixonia Nyasulu Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 9.
Paul Walsh Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director For Directors biographies please go to page 40 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5
