Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 03 CHAIRmANS STATEmENT JeFF HARRis I have been consistently impressed with the calibre and commitment of my colleagues throughout the organisation and the quality of our operations and customer relationships.
i was very pleased to be asked to succeed Bob Beeston i also held meetings with our main institutional Headline PBT as chairman, following the Annual General meeting in shareholders to hear their views on our business, continuing operations may last year.
i judged that cookson was a company management, governance and strategy.
i am pleased to m 222 with great prospects and i am delighted to see that this report that the feedback was both positive and supportive.
176 FINANCIAL PERFORmANCE 150 A number of factors have changed during the last Revenue of 2.55bn was 30% higher than that reported 123 twelve months.
Our end-markets have improved in 2009.
Headline profit before tax nearly trebled to from the unprecedented recession of 2008 09, 222.1m and headline earnings per share more than although there is still further recovery to be seen.
Overall, post-exceptional items, we Our performance has improved as a result of firm reported a profit for the year of 150.9m compared management actions to lower our cost base, expansion with a loss of 44.7m reported for 2009. net debt at in the higher growth, emerging markets and focus on 31 December 2010 stood at 330m, a reduction of product innovation.
prospects are improved as we benefit from strong DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY market positions in recovering economies.
Our share no interim dividend was paid during the year and the price performance has been encouraging with an last dividend paid was an interim dividend of 8.8p increase of more than 50% during 2010.
As a consequence of the Groups these improvements have led to the Group reporting continuing operations improved financial position and prospects, the Board record levels of revenue 2.55bn and headline pence is now recommending to shareholders a final dividend profit before tax 222m : our employee numbers are payment in respect of 2010 of 11.5p per ordinary share.
88.5 gradually increasing as we recruit to meet increasing 81.9 As part of its three-year Group performance targets, demand: and we are now recommending a return to 64.2 the Board is targeting growing dividends from this dividend payments to our shareholders.
61.5 base at least in line with the growth in earnings, with i am confident that the Group can continue to deliver the next payment expected to be an interim dividend further improvements in performance, as reflected by in October 2011. the three-year targets announced in January 2011 and 18.0 detailed in the chief executives statement.
BOARD AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the Board is responsible for overseeing the Groups INITIAL ImPRESSIONS strategy and monitoring its performance.
in February Following my appointment in may, i have travelled 2010, the Board was strengthened with the appointment extensively to visit cookson facilities in the Americas, of two additional members: peter Hill as a non-executive europe and Asia.
i have been consistently impressed Director and Franois Wanecq, chief executive Officer of with the calibre and commitment of my colleagues our ceramics division, as an executive Director.
throughout the organisation and the quality of our Barry perry, who has been a non-executive Director operations and customer relationships.
this was since 2002, has decided not to stand for re-election at exemplified by our operations in china, which is now the next AGm and will therefore resign from the Board our largest country in terms of employees and earnings in may 2011. i would like to thank Barry for his valuable and where we have excellent, modern facilities with insight and the outstanding contribution he has made further new factories currently under construction to over the past nine years.
meet the strong market growth.
OUTLOOK in terms of the functioning of the Board and its committees, i have been reassured to see the strong confidence in the sustainability of the global economic commitment to high standards of governance, a recovery is increasing and fears of a double-dip focused approach to risk management and a genuine receding.
i therefore expect the Groups performance attention to corporate social responsibility and, in in 2011 will be well ahead of 2010. particular, health and safety.
