com Annual Report 2010 governance Chairmans statement Dividends Governance In line with previous statements and in view of the Sound principles of governance at Board level uncertain economic environment, the Board has not and across the group remain a key focus for us, recommended payment of a dividend for the year particularly to ensure that management and staff in ended 31 December 2010. the Boards intention is all our businesses identify, understand and manage to recommence the payment of dividends when the risk in a proactive way.
the extensive disruption to financial and trading position of the group allows.
international travel caused by the volcanic ash cloud in April provided a good example of risk management Strategy in action.
this incident presented our operations with the progressive improvement in our results was an a major and unexpected logistical challenge and I important factor supporting the groups successful am pleased to report that our staff responded with refinancing completed in July 2010, including the speed and flexibility to really help our customers 181 million Rights Issue and our 375 million and redeploy fleet effectively.
It also demonstrated revolving credit facility.
Strengthening the balance the importance of our processes to capture the sheet in this way provides a very strong platform experiences from events such as this, ensuring that to take advantage of profitable opportunities for best practice is shared across the group.
I am delighted that we have growth in our traditional markets as economic conditions stabilise, to continue expansion in higher through the year Board members have had a achieved such a strong trading growing emerging markets and to develop new number of opportunities to meet with members performance for 2010, despite mobility solutions.
of the Avis Executive Board and other senior challenging market conditions, management, and we are now expanding this Environment programme so that the Directors have further increasing both market share As car usage in general shifts towards a more opportunities to understand the business and and profitability.
We saw a economical and low-emission approach, we are engage with management.
During the year the exploring new growth opportunities, recognising Board conducted a detailed succession planning progressive improvement in that we are well placed to help shape the evolution review across the business.
volumes during the year and of environmentally compatible mobility.
As part of this, we are encouraging the development of Axel von Ruedorffer will retire from the Board in delivered an increase in rate per new mobility solutions that both reflect changing May 2011 after nearly ten years service to the day for the third consecutive consumer behaviour and complement the traditional Company and I would like to express our thanks for car rental business.
his invaluable contribution over this time.
We improved underlying to appoint a new independent non-executive in due profit before tax by 45% to Outlook course to maintain the balance of the Board.
our dual-brand strategy and global reach is 51.0 million, with pre-tax well placed to drive growth and benefit from It has been a challenging and exciting year for the margin ahead by 120 basis the improving economic climate in most of our business and our employees have demonstrated main markets.
While visibility remains limited, tremendous commitment and creativity, keeping the points to 4.2% and return on particularly in Spain, we expect overall volumes Avis human touch in a trading environment which capital employed ahead by 250 to further improve and we will continue to seek to continued to remain difficult.
I have every confidence enhance pricing.
that the Avis We try harder.
spirit will be just as basis points to 12.4%, all at the much in evidence in 2011. highest levels in five years.
Costs and capital discipline also remain key and we continue to focus on improving utilisation.
Alun Cathcart Furthermore, net finance costs will reduce year-onChairman During the past two years we year, benefiting from cash flow performance and the full year effect of the Rights Issue.
We therefore have engineered a significant expect a further increase in our underlying pre-tax turnaround of the group, margin during 2011. effectively restructuring the In addition to the focus on our traditional core Company and reorganising the markets, benefiting from the Avis and Budget brand strengths and close attention to quality of service, we Avis and Budget brands for will also continue to invest in future profitable growth future growth.
At the same time opportunities, particularly our ongoing expansion in we have continued to invest in China and other fast growing markets, and innovate through the introduction of further new mobility both customer service innovation customer offers.
the Board remains confident of and product differentiation.
further progress in the year ahead.
