Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 03 Chairmans Statement Anita Frew I am delighted to report excellent progress at Victrex with record revenue and profit, a significant increase in our underlying dividend and a special dividend return to shareholders.
Governance Code which was issued in June 2010.
Although this new Results code is not applicable to the Group until our next financial year we will Group profit before tax increased by 198% to a record 74.9m on be early adopters.
All Directors will be subject to annual election at the revenues up 82% to 189.5m leading to an increase in basic earnings forthcoming AGM.
Additionally, Lawrence Pentz has been appointed per share of 200% to 65.1p.
Both of our divisions recorded record as Chairman of the Groups Risk Management Committee to improve profits for the year with Victrex Polymer Solutions contributing 48.3m further the Board oversight of the risk management process.
Finally, of operating profit 2009: 6.3m on the basis of a strong rebound although we have a thorough internal process for Board evaluation, in demand across all major markets and Invibio Biomaterial Solutions we will undertake an external evaluation of the Board during the next contributing 28.1m of operating profit, up 40% over 2009 20.0m.
Dividends People In recognition of the Groups strong performance and our confidence in I would like to thank our employees formally for their outstanding the strength and growth potential of our business, we are recommending contribution to the Groups success in 2010 particularly following last a final dividend of 18.6p 2009: 14.0p per ordinary share making a total years challenging economic conditions.
As I visit our operations around of 25.0p 2009: 19.2p per ordinary share for the year, an increase of the world I am always impressed by the enthusiasm, professionalism 30% over last year.
Dividend cover is 2.6 times 2009: 1.1 times.
and dedication of our employees at all levels across the Group which remains key to our continued progress and success.
During the year we completed our review of the requirement for capital in the strategic development of our business.
As a result and taking into Outlook account our strong cash position and exceptional return on capital, we The Groups strong recovery has continued into the first two months are also recommending a special dividend of 50.0p per ordinary share.
of the current financial year.
We expect gross margins to improve as a consequence of operational gearing and more favourable exchange rates.
The Board Overheads will also increase as we maintain our investment in future As previously announced, Michael Peacock stepped down from the growth opportunities.
Board as Finance Director in October 2010.
He will retire from the Company at the forthcoming AGM.
I would like to thank Michael We are vigilant of the continuing uncertainty in the global economy and for his invaluable contribution during 10 years of service.
Following the potential impact on our customers and markets.
Nonetheless, we have an extensive external search process, I was delighted to welcome strong underlying growth drivers across our end user markets.
In addition, Peter Bream to the Board as Michaels successor.
Peter was formerly cash generation is robust and with no debt, even after allowing for the Finance Director of Renold plc and is a Chartered Accountant with an special dividend, the balance sheet remains strong.
We are, therefore, well engineering degree from Cambridge University.
placed to pursue opportunities as they arise and remain confident in our ability to continue to grow the business.
The Board continues to comprise a wealth of experience and a diverse range of skills, including international, industrial, marketing, corporate and financial expertise.
These add greatly to the value, quality and depth of Board deliberations.
Anita Frew Chairman Governance 6 December 2010 The Board continually reviews the way in which we operate against best practice corporate governance.
We welcome the new UK Corporate 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Overview
