Sir John Bond Chairman Chairmans statement Your Company continues to deliver strong cash generation, is well positioned to benefit from economic recovery and looks to the future with confidence.
Environment and performance more efficiently and pleasurably, making better use of their time and Against a difficult background, we generated 7.2 billion opportunities.
This has resulted in ever increasing demand, with voice of free cash flow, up 26.5%.
minutes up by 22.3% and data revenue up by 19.3% across the Total dividends per share of 8.31 pence, up 7%: three year Group.
This additional demand on our networks means that we need dividend per share growth target of at least 7% per annum.
to manage traffic to ensure both good service for our customers and Original 1 billion cost programme completed a year ahead appropriate returns for our shareholders from continued investment of schedule with a further 1 billion initiative underway.
Continued strong investment in network capability to maintain and enhance the quality of service.
Innovation Continued innovation in our products and services Dividends per share 2009 saw the sharpest contraction in the worlds economy for more broadens and enhances our business portfolio.
Unquestionably, this has been the most difficult The new Vodafone 360 service combines the benefits 8.31 economic environment in which your Company has ever operated.
of mobile communications and the internet to bring 7.77 7.51 Against this background, I am very pleased to report that the Group your phone, email chat and social network contacts 7.77 7.51 delivered an adjusted operating profit of 11.5 billion down 2.5%, together in one place.
and generated 7.2 billion of free cash flow up 26.5%.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.65 pence, making a total for the Innovation in the services we offer, and the expansion of those services year of 8.31 pence per share up 7%.
The Board is also targeting to into other sectors such as health care or communication between maintain growth in dividends per share at no less than 7% per annum different types of machine smart metering on energy grids or smart 2008 2009 2010 for the next three years.
This years results have been achieved while communications for delivery truck fleets can make important maintaining the capital expenditure up slightly at 6.2 billion needed contributions to our societies, lowering carbon emissions and to serve our customers growing demand for voice minutes and data enhancing lifestyles.
This kind of innovation is important both for the services.
The share price has increased by 6% since 1 April 2009, wider benefits it brings but also because it broadens and enhances the broadly in line with other major European telecommunications base on which our business is built.
We have now set-up separate companies, but behind the increase in the FTSE 100. health and machine-to-machine teams to ensure that we maximise these opportunities.
While the Group is not immune from the economic environment in which we operate, with our retail customers seeking to control their Your Company has also continued to innovate in the services we expenditure as much as possible and our business customers seeking provide.
This year has seen the launch of Vodafone 360, a service to control cost, we have responded swiftly with cost reduction designed to help bridge the intersection between mobile and efficiency programmes.
On top of our original 1 billion cost communications and the internet making it easier to communicate programme, delivered a year ahead of plan, we have now committed with friends, colleagues and family from your mobile using social to a further 1 billion cost programme by the 2013 financial year.
With media or more traditional forms of electronic communication.
The mobile voice prices continuing to decline in Europe by over 10% a year, Vodafone Money Transfer system branded M-PESA in Kenya and tight cost control will remain a high priority in the future.
Tanzania is available in three countries with 13 million customers transferring US$3.6 billion during the 2010 financial year.
We expect The telecommunications sector as a whole has seen declining revenue to roll-out the service to further markets later this year.
We recently through this period but we have not seen the extremely steep declines launched two of the worlds most inexpensive handsets for example in revenue experienced by some other sectors of the economy the Vodafone 150 retails in most markets at unsubsidised prices below mobile communications remain an essential element in most peoples US $15 and we are working on low cost handsets which will give lives.
We see how our services are allowing people to lead their lives access to the internet.
2 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Executive summary Total shareholder return April 2009 to May 2010 Vodafone 13% FTSE 100 39% Vodafone share price vs FTSE 100 Vodafone Group FTSE 100 index 180 6000 160 5250 140 4500 120 3750 100 3000 April 2009 May 2010 Geographic diversity experience of the Asia Pacific region have been great assets to the Proportionate mobile Wide portfolio of operations including developed and Board, and I am grateful for the contribution he has made.
In emerging markets growth prospects remain positive.
The Vodafone Foundation We now have over 100 million customers in our key The Vodafone Foundation supports communities and societies 341.1m Indian market.
in the countries in which we operate.
up 12.7% Vodafone invested a total of 42 million in foundation One of the benefits of our broad spread of operations in both programmes and social causes.
developed and emerging markets is the diversification of risk that this allows.
The Board keeps a close watch on this portfolio of investments, We have continued to fund the work of the Vodafone Foundation.
particularly those where we do not exercise management control.
In Through the Vodafone Foundation and our network of national affiliate Verizon Wireless we have an outstanding asset whose value has foundations we support communities and societies in the countries in increased substantially over recent years, and SFR has secured a which we operate.
In this financial year we invested a total of 42 million strong market position and provided good dividends.
The Board in foundation programmes and social causes, and our World of reviews these investments regularly and will remain focused upon the Difference programme enabled 604 people to take paid time to work best way of realising maximum shareholder value.
for a charitable purpose of their choice in their own community or in a developing country.
Across the Group we have also put in place The impairment of our investment in Vodafone Essar in India was a mechanisms to make it easy for our customers to give money to support major disappointment to the Board.
It results from an intense price war, charitable appeals following disasters.
After the Haiti earthquake, triggered by the unprecedented and unforeseeable entry of six new Vodafone foundations donated 0.3 million to the emergency relief and competitors into the Indian market.
Our operational performance in reconstruction effort, and we helped our customers in 14 countries to India however remains strong and we remain confident in the longgive a total of 4.7 million by text message.
term prospects for the Indian market.
We recently passed a very important milestone, with Vodafone Essar now having more than 100 Summary million customers one of only five national mobile operators in the On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all Vodafone staff around world to have reached this scale, reflecting strong growth from 28 the world for the great efforts they have made in the past year in such million customers when we acquired control of Vodafone Essar in May challenging economic conditions.
Vodafone would not have been able 2007.
Elsewhere in the emerging markets, the operational turnaround to deliver these results without the tremendous effort of the team.
of our company in Turkey has yielded very positive results and we have seen good progress in Ghana.
The Board is heartened by your Companys strong results especially in the face of such a sharp economic downturn.
It believes that the Group Your Board is well positioned to benefit from economic recovery and looks to the This year we conducted an evaluation on the effectiveness of the future with confidence.
Board and its Committees aided by the external advisors MWM Consulting.
They concluded that the Board was effective, had the right composition and skills and was generally performing well.
More detail is contained at page 48 of this report.
Sir John Bond Simon Murray, who has been a non-executive Director since July 2007, Chairman has decided to step down from the Board after this years AGM.
His knowledge of telecommunications, entrepreneurial spirit, and Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 3
