CHairmanS Statement As your new Chairman, I am pleased to report another year of good performance, with both businesses This year both businesses have making further progress with the delivery of their distinct strategies.
This performance demonstrates made further progress with the our ability to deliver in a tough trading climate as we continue to grow our Travel business, strengthen delivery of their distinct strategies.
our core categories in the High Street and create shareholder value.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative with a strong balance sheet as we focus on profitability and cash generation in both the Travel and High Street businesses.
Group profit before tax and exceptional items was nine per cent ahead of last year at 89m.
This is a notable achievement, in light of the uncertain trading environment.
Total revenue for the Group was down two per cent at 1.31 billion, with like-for-like LFL sales 1 down four per cent, and strong free cash flow of 82m.
This performance led the Board to recommend a final dividend of 13.3p and to announce on 14 October 2010 our intention to return up to 50m of cash to shareholders via a rolling share buyback programme.
The Travel business has delivered another strong 2 performance with further profit growth.
This demonstrates the strength of the divisions business model, with the business continuing to grow despite soft air passenger numbers and the disruption caused by the volcanic ash cloud during the spring.
We have made further good progress with the development of our new channels, opening nine new units in hospitals and six in workplace locations, with opportunities for growth identified in both channels over the next five years.
Our international outlets are also performing well and we now have units open in Calais and Shannon run by WHSmith directly, Copenhagen part of a joint venture and on a franchise basis in Stockholm, Muscat and Delhi.
Travel achieved total sales growth of one per 2 cent and profit growth of ten per cent.
In High Street, we have made further progress with our strategy to build our authority in our core categories and rebalance the mix of the business away from Entertainment.
Successful cost control continues to be of high importance and in addition to this we have seen a further strong gross margin performance during the year.
The division continues its record of strong cash generation, as a result of efficient stock management and effective capital investment, together with a record of consistent profit growth.
This year, High Street 2 delivered profits up by four per cent.
When trading conditions are challenging, we rely more than ever on the commitment of our management teams, staff and suppliers.
These results would not have been achieved without their ongoing loyalty and support.
My thanks go to all our staff across the Group, whose hard work has delivered this set of results.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2 Corporate Responsibility CR remains a focus for the business and, as the business develops, we work to adapt our CR strategy to ensure that it remains relevant and continues to add value.
During the year, we have extended our community engagement programme to work in our new hospital channel.
I am proud to say that we have presented library resources to hospitals around the country, consistent with our commitment to promote literacy, while also providing a welcome The Group continues to be diversion for patients young and old.
Our efforts in all areas of CR continue to be recognised in the Business highly cash generative with in the Community CR Index, where we are delighted a strong balance sheet as we to have been awarded the highest ranking, Platinum, for the third year running.
focus on profitability and cash There have been a number of changes to the Board.
generation in both the Travel Robert Walker, Non-Executive Chairman, retired from the Board on 31 August 2010.
Robert had served as and High Street businesses.
Chairman since 2005 and, on behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for his valued contribution to the Group.
Luke Mayhew also stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 31 August 2010 after five years valuable service on the Board.
Henry Staunton who joined the Board on 1 September 2010 brings extensive finance and retail expertise and I know that I and my colleagues on the Board very much look forward to working with him.
Whilst we are well positioned, we remain cautious about consumer spending in the year ahead.
From a personal perspective, I am delighted to be joining Kate and the management team and am excited at the opportunities that lie ahead for the Group as we continue to implement our strategic plans.
Walker boyd Chairman, WH Smith PLC 14 October 2010 1 Net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, pension deficit funding, tax refunds and net interest received 2 Profit from trading operations is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation Annual Report and Accounts 2010 WH Smith PLC 3
