4 Annual Report 2009 10 Chairmans statement Whitbread has come through a difficult economic period very creditably.
It is trading well and has opportunities for growth, both in the UK and internationally.
When I wrote to you at this time last year we were all facing a period of unprecedented economic turmoil.
As I said at the time, Whitbread had already taken action to prepare itself for a downturn and we entered 2009 10 with a robust balance sheet, market-leading brands in value for money sectors and proven operational expertise.
That preparation stood us in good stead.
During 2009 10 Premier Inn took action to reinforce its value for money credentials and to attract more leisure customers against the backdrop of a falling hotels market.
This delivered beneficial Anthony Habgood results, particularly in the second Chairman, Whitbread PLC half of the year.
Our restaurants also focused on more value for money offers which contributed to improved performance.
Costa had a very successful year with strong marketing activity and the introduction of new products including Flat White coffee.
Whitbread has come through a difficult economic period very creditably.
Revenues at our Hotels and Restaurants business increased by 3.2% ending the year Sir Michael Angus on an improving trend.
Revenues It is with great sadness that I report that Sir Michael at Costa increased by 23.4% an Angus, who was a director of Whitbread from 1986 excellent performance.
Premier Inn to 2000 and Chairman for the last eight of those grew, as planned, by over 2,200 rooms years, died on 13 March 2010.
Sir Michael was a highly while also securing land for future respected businessman and his experience in many development.
We added five new roles, but principally as Chief Executive of Unilever, pub restaurants and over 300 new was invaluable to the Company.
Having worked with coffee shops.
Sir Michael as a fellow non-executive director at another company I saw at first hand his fast mind Our increased focus on cash and quick wit.
management and continuing cost reduction programmes were key 5 I am delighted that Andy Harrison will be joining us to succeed Alan Parker on his retirement in November.
Andys skills and experience are ideally suited to build on Alans successful management of the Company and to take advantage of our growth opportunities.
Andy Harrison, Chief Executive Designate to our success in the year and the We are delighted with this Also in September 2009, Richard Company has ended the period appointment.
Andy has 14 years Baker joined the Board as an with a positive cash flow of nearly proven experience as a successful independent non-executive director.
110million exceeding our target leader of two significant consumerRichard was Chief Executive of for cash neutrality.
facing and service oriented public Alliance Boots from 2003 until 2007 listed companies.
Most recently, at having led the merger of the Boots We believe that 2010 11 will easyJet, he has successfully led and Group and Alliance Unichem in continue to be a difficult economic profitably internationalised a leading 2005.
Before that time Richard held environment for our customers and value for money brand in a highly a number of roles, including Chief we will therefore remain focused competitive market.
Whitbread has Operating Officer at Asda.
He is on prudent and tight management.
opportunities for growth, both in currently Chairman of Virgin Active Growth remains a priority and, in the UK and through developing our and Groupe Aeroplan Europe as the short term, this will be on a international presence.
We believe well as being an Operating Partner measured basis until we see more that Andys skills and experience of Advent International.
We are sustained signs of recovery.
are ideally suited to lead Whitbread delighted to welcome Richard to and to take advantage of these our Board.
His wealth of experience Chief Executive succession opportunities.
in consumer-facing industries, as On 3 March 2010, we announced that well as at senior Board level, will Alan Parker has decided to retire on Dividend be a great asset to Whitbread.
The Board recommends a final Alan has made an invaluable dividend of 28.35p per share, Our people contribution to the growth and making a total dividend for the Being a truly customer focused development of Whitbread during year of 38.00p per share, up by 4%.
organisation requires our people his six years as Chief Executive.
The final dividend will be paid on to make everyday experiences Under his leadership Whitbread has 14 July 2010 to shareholders on the feel special to our customers.
All grown to become the UKs leading register at the close of business on our employees are extraordinarily hospitality company with a strong 14 May 2010.
Once again, a scrip committed to providing excellent focus on value for money brands.
dividend alternative will be offered service and I would like to thank and further information on how them on behalf of the Board for In anticipation of Alans retirement, shareholders can elect to participate their efforts over the past year.
the non-executive directors under in the scrip dividend scheme are my chairmanship, began the search available from the registrars or for his successor.
We conducted a on the Companys website.
thorough international search and selection process, the details of which Board can be found on page 45, and had a Charles Gurassa stepped down number of high quality candidates.
from the Board in September The result of this process was that 2009 having served for nine years Anthony Habgood we decided to appoint Andy Harrison as an independent non-executive Chairman to succeed Alan.
Andy is currently director and for much of that time Chief Executive at easyJet PLC, as Chairman of the Remuneration 28 April 2010 which he joined in 2005, having Committee.
I would like to thank previously spent nine years as Chief Charles for his significant input to the Executive of RAC PLC.
He was a major contributor us on 1 September and take over at an extraordinarily important time from Alan as Chief Executive in as Whitbread evolved into a focused late November.
