2 Chairmans statement HigHligHts 2009 10 Strong financial performance Profit before tax 858m Underlying profit increased 21% Underlying basic earnings per share 20.5p See page 18 for more on Operating results Dividend growth once again Total dividend for the year 8.2p Increase of 41% from 2009 Dividend cover 2.5 times Board changes New CEO Dalton Philips, March 2010 Two new Non-Executive Directors See p age 26 for Board of Directors biographies sir ian gibson, Chairman Morrisons had another good year.
Once again our focus on fresh food and great value appealed to shoppers everywhere, and we have successfully grown sales and profits to record levels.
We completed delivery of the Optimisation Plan first launched four years ago, and we are well on the way to cementing our position as the food specialist for everyone.
The opening of 43 stores in the year accelerated our journey from National to Nationwide.
% % 858m 23increase 41increase Profit before tax increased 203m Underlying earnings per share increased Total dividend for the year has increased 41%, compared to last year 655m.
to 20.5p from 16.7p in 2009. making dividend cover 2.5 times.
12pence 42m 1.8m The Board has recommended a final dividend The profit share pool for our colleagues raised for our Charity of the Year of 7.12p per share, bringing the total dividend is 42m, an increase of 24% on the Cancer Research UK.
for the year to 8.20p per share.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 3 In a difficult period for the UK economy and for Loblaw, where he was Chief Operating Officer, continuing thanks for the commitment, having spent much of his career in grocery retail dedication and professionalism shown the consumer, Morrisons has again demonstrated its strength.
I am pleased to report another worldwide.
He takes up his post with effect by our colleagues every day.
We thank Marc for his year of significant progress, during which we successfully concluded the Optimisation Plan contribution to the development of the business Charitable donations over the past three years.
Throughout the business, our colleagues launched in 2006, delivered market beating sales growth, record profits and a strong and customers have once again enthusiastically As part of the Boards progressive succession supported a variety of charitable activities, dividend.
We made great strides towards our goal of being the food specialist for everyone strategy, Susan Murray retired as a Non-Executive community initiatives and national events.
We are These have included raising 220,000 for and welcomed more customers through our doors than ever before on our journey to take extremely appreciative of Susans efforts and Children in Need and 600,000 for the valued contribution throughout her four years Haiti Disaster Emergency Committee the business from National to Nationwide.
on the Board and are grateful to her for the earthquake appeal.
support she gave to the Group through its Results Profit before tax was 858m compared with business recovery and development.
For 2009 10, Morrisons employees voted Cancer Research UK as their Charity of the Year, 655m last year.
This included an exceptional credit of 91m arising from steps taken to We are pleased to welcome two new and the fundraising campaign was the most Non-Executive Directors.
Penny Hughes, successful charity partnership we have had.
Underlying profit before tax was 767m, up 21% on last whose previous experience includes 10 years To date we have raised in excess of 1.8m with Coca-Cola, ultimately as President of through an array of fundraising activities such year.
Underlying basic earnings per share EPS increased by 23% to 20.5p, whilst statutory Coca-Cola GB and Ireland, joined us on 1 January as coast-to-coast cycle rides, charity collection basic EPS increased by 31%.
Johanna Waterous joined the Board on weeks and sales of special charity products.
recommending a final dividend of 7.1p per 1 February 2010 and brings 22 years experience share, to bring the total for the year to 8.2p with McKinsey & Co, latterly as Co-Leader of Outlook an increase of 41%, which brings dividend the firms Global Marketing and Sales Practice.
The completion of the Optimisation Plan means cover in line with our policy of 2.5 times.
that the business is well positioned to meet its industry recognition for colleagues goal of being the food specialist for everyone.
Cash generation was strong, with cash from We are delighted that our commitment to The investments made in new store acquisition operations of 1.0bn, up 40m on the previous providing our customers with the best value, and the early success of the smaller store format year.
Capital expenditure increased, as quality and service has again been recognised represent good progress on our journey from anticipated, to 906m 2008 09: 678m, in numerous industry awards, including Retailer National to Nationwide and we see opportunities following the development of a new South East of the Year from Retail Week for the second to deliver further profitable growth.
regional distribution centre at Sittingbourne consecutive year, and top accolades at The and an expanded store opening programme Grocer Gold Awards 2009 including Customer We expect the economic environment to remain that saw 45 stores open in the year, two of Service Champion, Best Product Availability challenging, disposable incomes to be under which were replacements.
These investments and Store Manager of the Year.
pressure and value to be a high priority for in future growth resulted in an increase in net consumers.
The Board believes that Morrisons debt to 924m 2008 09: 642m.
Gearing was These awards are a testament to the hard unique offer of high quality fresh food at great 19%, a level well below average for the sector, work and passion of all our 134,000 colleagues value prices will continue to attract customers and at the year end the Group had undrawn who day-to-day strive to make Morrisons the from our competitors and drive market share committed bank facilities of 650m.
The Groups food specialist for everyone.
During the year growth in the year ahead.
For the longer term, credit rating was upgraded by Moodys for the we launched the Morrisons Academy, the next we will utilise our balance sheet strength second consecutive year, to A3 this is a strong step in the training and development of our to invest for growth, with new space, new investment grade rating which is held by only people, and already we have 20,000 colleagues manufacturing capability and new systems two other European retailers.
working towards nationally recognised a priority in the year ahead.
I am delighted that our growth Board changes will provide a profit share pool of 42m, a 24% sir ian gibson We are pleased to welcome Dalton Philips as our increase on the previous year, in recognition Chairman new Chief Executive, following Marc Bollands of their commitment to living our values.
Dalton joins from On behalf of the Board I want to express our Introducing our new Chief Executive Dalton Philips I h ave worked in retail organisations worldwide and have often looked at Morrisons, particularly how it combined its fresh food offer and great value.
I am therefore delighted to be joining what I Morrisons Academy, launched in 2009, will would regard as a retailers retailer at a time provide training for professional and vocational when they have delivered outstanding results.
By April 2010 our retail colleagues will all be accredited and qualified to Royal I am looking forward to working with the Society for Public Health standards of food team to build on those strong foundations safety, making us the only retailer to operate for the future.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010
