Chairmans statement The organisation looks to the future with increasing confidence and an enthusiasm to develop our strong local market positions working from the foundation of a low cost base and strong, focused leadership.
Further, I am pleased to report that Wolseley Revenue exits the financial year in a strong position in terms of its balance sheet, its assets and its 13.2bn people.
That strength is in no small part due to the period of critical self-examination we have undergone as a business this year.
The resulting 9% strategy crafted by our new Chief Executive, IanMeakins and his team, endorsed by the Trading profit Board, is already bearing fruit and has put usina much stronger position to weather the remainder of the recession and look forward 450m tothe future with great optimism.
In my last year as Chairman I am delighted Ian got to grips with the business very quickly.
Net debt toreport thatas we begin to emerge from He spent time reviewing the management theextremely difficult market environment of structure and the future planning required to 346m thelastthree years, your Company is well take the Company forward.
He has drive and positioned to exploit the opportunities that lie energy and a passion for operational excellence 613m ahead.
Theorganisation looks to the future and delivery.
It is through his leadership that I withincreasing confidence and an enthusiasm see a new confidence in our people.
The Board todevelop our strong local market positions is fully supportive of Ians approach of focusing working from the foundation of a low cost base future growth on those Wolseley businesses and strong, focused leadership.
Last year was where we have built sufficient scale, leading again difficult, starting with a weak declining market positions and an excellent product market which hasonly begun toshow signs offering.
He has also introduced greater rigour ofstability, and insome cases recovery, in the inhow we drive performance improvement and last few months.
the execution of strategy at the business unit level, which will serve us well in the future.
Thisapproach is set out by Ian in his review Group results onpages 4 to 5.
This is clearly reected in the results for the year with Group revenue for the 12 months to 31 July Redomicile to Switzerland 2010, down 9 per cent to 13.2 billion, and earnings per share before exceptional items In September, we announced a proposal to andamortisation and impairment of acquired change the corporate structure of the Group.
intangibles down 22 per cent to 74.1 pence.
This will create a new holding company which Wehave continued to manage the cost base isUK-listed, incorporated in Jersey with its tax actively to minimise the effects of the recession residence in Switzerland.
I want to emphasise on the Groups results and during the year that this proposal will not make any substantive headcount was reduced by a further 3,400 and change to corporate governance or to any 220 branches were closed.
We have also taken existing investor protection measures, nor rmaction to exit those businesses where we willithave any adverse tax implications do not see future value creation potential.
It does not change Wolseleys business strategy, or the day-to-day conduct of We continue to place a high degree of emphasis our businesses, including in the UK.
In addition, on cash generation and, in particular, driving the tax position of the UK businesses will remain improvements in working capital.
reected in a strong free cash ow performance of 660 million 2009: 851 million.
Our net debtposition at 31July 2010 improved by 613million to 346million.
02 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information However, the proposed move is intended to I would like to take this opportunity to wish both provide a more stable tax regime for our Steve and Rob well and thank them for their international business and the Board feels significant contribution to the success of the strongly that it would be delinquent in its duty to Company.
shareholders if it ignored the strong business As previously announced, Jim Murray, Non case for redomiciling and thereby keeping the Executive Director and former Chairman of the Groups effective tax rate competitive.
As I write, Audit Committee will retire from the Board on I am conscious of the new coalition Governments 30 September.
I wish him well in his retirement.
publicly stated desire to simplify UK tax law as itapplies to multinational corporations such as Now I come to my own retirement.
I do this with Wolseley, and naturally the Board will keep this great sadness because it has been a privilege to under review.
be associated with this very special Company.
However, after nearly 13 years on theBoard, including eight as Chairman, and now with Governance anew Executive team in place with a clear As we do each year, the Board reviewed its strategy to deliver future profitable growth, effectiveness and the overall strength of the itseems right to hand over to someone else.
governance and controls framework of the Ido so knowing that my successor, Gareth Davis, Company.
It took the opportunity to streamline was an outstanding CEO of some 14 years and verify some of the Companys policies standing at Imperial Tobacco plc, is well andprocedures and to refocus its time and respected in the City and has a strong track attention on material strategic and operational record of creating value.
improvements designed to further improve the Wolseley today is now a very different Company efficiency of decision-making.
to the one I first chaired, and is well placed to continue to enjoy an exciting and profitable Dividend future.
I wish everyone at the Company the very best and thank you all for your support during The Board understands the importance of the the last eight years as your Chairman.
dividend to investors and we have announced our intention to resume paying a dividend during Finally I would, of course, like to pay tribute the 2011 financial year.
toWolseleys 47,000 people who work in 25countries around the world.
As a service Board changes business we are wholly dependent on their skillsand imagination to service our customers In March, Steve Webster stepped down as every day.
ChiefFinancial officer CFO and John Martin was appointed by the Board as his successor inApril.
Johnbrings awealth of operational experience from TravelexGroup and Hays plc and is already showing himself as a highly capable CFO.
Iamcondent his experience will be of great benefit to Wolseley.
John Whybrow Chairman Rob Marchbank, Chief Executive officer, Europe, left the Company in March following the reorganisation of our European businesses.
Wolseley plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
