Business review Babcock International Group PLC 19 Chairmans statement 2009 10 has been another very exciting year for Babcock as As Chairman, and on behalf of the Board, it gives me great we have strengthened our business and pursued our strategy pleasure to publicly thank our employees for their continuing to become the UKs leading engineering support services hard work and dedication.
Our business is based on its trusted company.
to deliver reputation and is a result of the knowledge, skills and experience of our workforce and their commitment to delivering Delivering our strategic goals the very highest standards of service to our customers.
When I wrote to you at this time last year I commented on Creating value for our shareholders how fortunate I was to have rejoined the Company at such an exciting time in its development.
I hope you will agree that We are committed to delivering sustainable value for our this year has been no exception, both financially and strategically.
This year I am pleased to report a 23% increase The financial results we have reported set out opposite in earnings per share to 51.37 pence per share 2009: 41.90 demonstrate the underlying strength of our business model.
As a result of its confidence in the financial strength and future growth prospects of the Group, the Board In pursuit of our strategy, we continue to strengthen our has declared a second interim dividend of 12.80 pence per positions in our principal markets through organic growth share, this will give a total dividend for the year of 17.60 pence and acquisition.
We continue our focus on developing strong per share 2009: 14.40 pence per share.
The dividend will be and embedded relationships with our major customers, who paid on 9 July 2010, to shareholders on the register at close rely on us to deliver the essential through-life engineering of business on 18 June 2010.
This second interim dividend is support they require.
Despite the current economic climate, in lieu of any final dividend for the year and will not be paid we believe there are a significant number of opportunities on any shares issued in connection with the acquisition of VT. available to us, in both the UK and overseas, where we can achieve further growth.
The Board is confident that Babcock has excellent long-term growth prospects, that will be further strengthened by the The combination of VT Group plc VT and Babcock is one proposed acquisition of VT Group plc.
We believe the outlook that has been much discussed over the years because of the for the 2010 11 financial year remains positive and look similarity of our strategic objectives and business models.
forward to another year of good progress.
On 23 March 2010 we were able to announce that the Board of VT had recommended our offer to acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital of VT.
This acquisition is wholly in line with our strategy and we believe that, if approved by shareholders of both companies, it will provide us with a unique opportunity to create the UKs largest and most focused engineering support services company.
The Board On 9 April I was pleased to announce that Archie Bethel and Mike Turner Chairman.
Kevin Thomas were being appointed as Executive Directors, Focused on delivering effective 1 May, and I welcome them onto the Board.
Both have been with Babcock for a number of years and have long-term value for played key roles in the development of the Group during that the Groups shareholders.
As the Group continues to grow and develop the Board will benefit directly from their first hand knowledge and experience of the day-to-day operations of our businesses.
Following Archie and Kevins appointment we are planning to appoint at least one further Non-Executive Director.
This will ensure we retain an appropriate balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors with sufficient variety of knowledge, skills and experience to serve the needs of the Company.
