| 6 Business review: overview Chairmans statement The conviction that the financial crisis was a severe but temporary interruption of a positive secular trend underpinned Xstratas Against a more executive managements decision, supported by the Board, to continue to invest in Xstratas major organic growth projects during encouraging macro- 2009, thereby ensuring Xstrata was quickly able to position itself for growth in anticipation of the global economy recovering.
I am economic backdrop, pleased to report that the decision to do so has enabled the Group to maintain its ambitious growth trajectory, and Xstratas major Xstrata delivered its growth projects remain set to deliver a substantial 50% increase in overall volumes on a copper-equivalent basis over 2009 levels by the second best financial end of 2014, providing robust returns at conservative commodity prices and, importantly, an average reduction in unit costs of 20%.
performance since The volatility in prices evident in 2010 will, in the Boards view, persist over the medium term as a result of more prudent supply chain its IPO management by customers leading to lower inventories and greater spot market activity, an increase in shorter term, quarterly pricing Willy Strothotte agreements for many commodities, the impact of commodity Chairman markets becoming an investment class in their own right, and high levels of capacity utilisation on the supply side.
The impact of financial flows on exchange traded metals is clearly visible in the almost immediate response of the commodities market to changes in market sentiment.
Financial investment in commodities now represents a semi-permanent, but highly volatile, source of demand.
Xstratas diversified portfolio is geared towards early and mid-stage LME-traded commodities such as copper, nickel and zinc, and bulk negotiated commodities of thermal coal, coking coal and ferrochrome.
With end-user construction, infrastructure and electricity generation sectors accounting for some 50% of Xstratas revenues, the Group remains in a strong position to continue to benefit from demand from the industrialising economies of China, India, Brazil and others.
Strategy In 2010, the Board focused its attention on the substantial capital 2010 offered Xstratas businesses a markedly improved investment programme underway across our business, examining the operating environment compared to the previous year, despite management processes in place to identify and manage the risks the impact on confidence of sovereign debt concerns in the inherent in such an extensive expansion programme, and scrutinising early part of the year and uncertainty about the potential the 10 projects brought to the Board for approval to commence impact of inflation on emerging economies growth in the construction.
The Board continues to assess each project brought for latter part of the year.
Against this more encouraging macroapproval against stringent criteria in terms of the anticipated return economic backdrop, and aided by the numerous restructuring on investment at conservative long-run prices, reduction in operating and cost saving initiatives implemented during the previous costs compared to current production, and in the light of anticipated year, Xstrata delivered its second best financial performance market conditions, in addition to evaluating the businesss ability to since its IPO nine years ago.
Commodity markets The accelerating pace of delivery of organic growth created a strong Throughout the financial crisis and ensuing global downturn, sense of momentum in 2010 and into early 2011.
It is encouraging Xstratas Board and management continued to hold the view to see Xstrata already delivering volume growth and cost savings that the secular trends underpinning the positive prospects from the three major projects completed during the year, and for commodities remained intact and would, in time, reassert demonstrable progress on projects at every stage of development.
Demand growth fuelled by urbanisation and The combination of low gearing, over $8 billion in undrawn industrialisation in highly populated developing markets and the bank facilities, high-quality access to the debt markets and strong structural issues that restrict new supply of many major commodities cash flow generation means Xstrata is well-placed to fund the continued to provide support for commodity prices, notwithstanding $18 billion of expansionary capital expenditure that has been events that weighed on global confidence during the year and had committed for currently approved and soon-to-be approved projects a short-term impact on commodity markets.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 7 over the next three years of its ambitious expansion, as well as mining companies and the equally legitimate requirement of retaining the agility to opportunistically take advantage of value shareholders to be compensated for the risks borne in developing accretive acquisitions.
and operating mines is complex and requires open consultation and a spirit of genuine partnership.
With a robust balance sheet that continues to provide the flexibility to withstand short-term price pressures and maintain our ambitious Xstrata continues to support the communities associated with its capital expenditure programme, and the Boards confidence in the operations and 2010 was no exception, with more than $84 million medium-term outlook, I am pleased that we have been able to invested in projects in the areas of health, education, community return Xstratas final dividend to pre-financial crisis levels.
This development, art and culture, job creation and enterprise substantial increase, which underlines the Boards commitment to development.
Several countries in which we operate faced severe a progressive dividend policy, will form the level from which the weather-related catastrophes.
In January, the Group donated dividend policy will grow in the future.
$500,000 to the International Red Cross Haiti Appeal, established to provide emergency aid and relief to those affected by the devastating During the year, members of the Boards Health, Safety, Environment earthquake, as Xstrata Nickels Falcondo operation is situated in the and Community Committee were able to see the impressive progress Dominican Republic bordering Haiti.
In March, Xstrata donated of the Koniambo nickel project at first hand during a visit to the $1 million following a major earthquake in Chile, comprising module yard in Qingdao in China, where components of Koniambos $500,000 to the Chilean Red Cross and a further $500,000 to metallurgical plant were constructed, followed by a visit to the support relief efforts being undertaken by an Antofagasta-based Koniambo site itself in New Caledonia.
The projects disciplined industry body.
Xstrata Copper provided a variety of in-kind support, approach to safety, its integration into and close collaboration including food parcels for impacted employees, supporting a rescue with the local community and its systematic approach to project and reconstruction team and facilitating helicopters for the rescue management give the Board great confidence in the successful effort.
Xstrata Copper also provided support for the rescue execution of this substantial project.
of the Chilean miners who were recovered safely on 13 October Xstrata also made further progress on its medium-term goal to build after 69 days trapped underground at a mine operated by a substantial iron ore business in 2010.
The fundamentals for iron San Esteban.
ore are attractive and provide additional diversification of Xstratas During late 2010, the Australian state of Queensland suffered some portfolio.
Xstratas proven expertise in bulk commodities, together of the worst flooding in decades, leaving many homeless and with its track record in infrastructure and project development, infrastructure paralysed.
As a significant Queensland employer and means the Group is well positioned to successfully develop its iron a major contributor to the affected regions economic growth via its ore projects.
Following the acquisition of controlling interests in coal, copper and zinc operations, it was fitting that Xstrata junior mining companies with assets in Mauritania and Republic supported and assisted these communities through a AUD2 million of Congo Brazzaville, Xstrata now has a firm foothold in the contribution to the Queensland Premiers Disaster Relief Appeal to market, with projects that offer both near and long-term help the states recovery.
The safety and wellbeing of our workforce remains paramount.
Sustainability Whilst in 2010 the businesses saw an overall strong improvement in Xstratas Sustainable Development Policy, Business Principles, the reduction of total recordable injuries, I am very saddened to supporting suite of standards and assurance process, ensure a report that three people lost their lives while working at Xstratas rigorous approach is taken at every site and project.
As Xstrata managed operations or projects.
Improvement in safety performance moves further into an intensive phase of developing large-scale and the prevention of fatalities remains the utmost priority for mining projects and exploring the potential of longer-term projects Xstratas Board and management, and we continue to work to that lie in new and more complex geographies, it is imperative ensure we implement the learnings from every actual and potential that we continue to work in this way and apply our best-in-class critical incident, as well as from best practices within our own and environmental management and community relations if we are other industries.
to successfully deliver our organic growth strategy.
Sustainability information is integrated within this report, including Mining involves a capital-intensive, long-term investment a range of non-financial key performance indicators in the Strategy commitment.
We have a recognised obligation to ensure our section.
A comprehensive Sustainability Report is also published activities have a positive impact in terms of jobs, training, education separately from the Annual Report each year laying out key and social and financial benefits that endure over the long term.
sustainability risks, strategy and performance against set targets, To do so, we must work in partnership with host governments and which is available from Xstratas website.
communities within a stable regulatory environment that facilitates the substantial investment required to develop and sustain mining Governance and risk management operations and that recognises the full contribution of mining As announced in early March, I will step down as Chairman of activities to the socio-economic well-being of a region or nation.
Xstrata plc at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 4 May 2011.
Striking the right balance between the legitimate desire of Sir John Bond has been invited to join the Board and will stand for government to extract financial benefit for their countries from election as Chairman and independent non-executive director.
At this | 8 Business review: overview Chairmans statement continued juncture, it is timely for me to reflect on my nine-year tenure as Interim dividend ps Dividends Chairman of Xstrata plc.
It has been an immense privilege to have Final dividend ps per share served as Chairman through the Groups evolution from a small mining company into a global diversified mining major that benefits from a prolific organic growth pipeline, top tier asset base, global 30 reputation in sustainable development and an enviable track record 19.2 in value-creating growth for its shareholders.
20.0 20 17.0 I commend Xstratas employees and management team for their passion, commitment, entrepreneurial spirit and expertise during my 10 tenure and I am pleased to hand over the Chairmans role to such 10.2 9.1 a highly capable and well-respected successor as Sir John Bond.
8.0 6.6 5.0 0 The Board has always been mindful of ensuring a balance of relevant 06 07 08 09 10 experience in its composition.
During 2010, Paul Hazen retired from Adjusted for the 2009 rights issue.
the Board, and Dr. Con Fauconnier was elected a director of the company.
Con has held numerous executive and Board positions at international mining companies, including as former CEO of Kumba Resources Limited, a South African iron ore producer.
During the year A global Bribery, Fraud and Corruption Policy that updates our Peter Hooley assumed the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
existing Fraud Policy and procedures has been developed, along with Whilst all members of the Board are financially literate, Peter, a Third Party Due Diligence Standards and training standards.
Xstratas former CFO of global healthcare product supplier Smith and Nephew Business Principles are well embedded into the business.
The steps plc, is considered to have the recent and relevant financial experience taken in 2010 will provide further assurance to the Board and required by the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code.
external stakeholders that the spirit and letter of our Business Principles are being implemented around the world.
Xstratas devolved management structure is underpinned by a robust governance framework.
The Groups value-driven approach to risk A comprehensive corporate governance report is published on pages management includes a comprehensive risk management structure 110 to 118 of this report.
and system that is embedded across its businesses.
Each year, the Board approves business plans that include the results of annual Conclusion risk reviews at an operational, commodity business and Group Xstrata emerged through 2010 to deliver an impressive performance level.
In 2010, the overall Board assumed direct responsibility for that was underpinned by prudent cost control, operational risk management from the Audit Committee, following feedback excellence and undeterred development of its growth pipeline.
from the 2009 Board evaluation and the Boards recognition The record real cost savings achieved by our commodity business of the evolving risk profile of Xstratas intensive phase of units in 2010 were truly commendable and demonstrate the Groups project development.
ongoing focus on improving the quality of our operations.
The pipeline of significant growth projects which Xstrata has successfully In line with our commitment to undertake an external evaluation of nurtured through the financial crisis will, in addition to increasing the Board every three years, an independent review was carried out volumes by 50% by 2014, also collectively reduce operating costs by in 2010, which concluded that the Board was effective and provided over 20% on average, accelerating the transformation of the Group strategic challenge and evident leadership.
and cementing its position in the lower end of the cost curve relative The financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 prompted extensive reappraisal to its peers in each major commodity.
of governance systems worldwide as regulators sought to assess the The Group enters 2011 on a strong financial footing, well positioned robustness of corporate governance regimes in the wake of the to optimise its competitive position and market-leading position in disaster.
A new UK Corporate Governance Code was published in key commodities.
The Board remains confident of Xstratas ability to mid-2010 which recommended that in the interests of greater continue to deliver excellent shareholder returns.
accountability, all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
In accordance with the Code, the remaining ten directors of the Board will stand for re-election at the AGM.
Xstrata is committed to the highest standards of personal and professional ethical behaviour.
We have a long-standing Statement of Business Principles and governance framework to help all Xstrata employees, contractors and associated partners manage the potential ethical risks in our business.
Willy Strothotte A global Code of Conduct has been developed to provide additional Chairman guidance on implementing Xstratas Business Principles and to encompass the revised requirements set out by the UK Bribery Act.
