Welcome to Yell Chairmans statement I took over from Bob Scott as Chairman of Yell at the end of July 2009.
The year under review saw a continuation of the very challenging business environment, but the Group achieved much.
Despite the weak economic environment, we renanced our debt, raised 660 million of equity and generated nearly 400 million of free cash ow.
Operationally, our internet business continued to grow and its product oerings Bob Wigley Chairman have been dramatically enhanced, whilst the overall cost base was reduced, leaving us well positioned to return to growth once the business environment improves.
The economic pressure on our revenue was significant with total revenue decreasing 11% to 2,123 million.
The proportion of revenue contributed by the internet business grew to 415 million representing 20% of total revenue up from 15% the previous year.
The benefit of our cost savings initiatives, partially oset both the declining revenue and the continued investment for future recovery, to leave adjusted EBITDA 24% down at 620 million.
Adjusted EPS was down 66% as a result of the declining operating profit, the eect of higher interest rates and the larger number of shares resulting from the equity raise.
Reported EPS increased, mainly as a result of the one-o impairment charge in last years results.
Importantly, our cash performance remained very strong as we converted 117% of our EBITDA into operating cash ow of 724 million, only 1% down on the prior year.
Over the year, we decreased our net debt by 1.1 billion to 3.1 billion.
This was as a result of our strong free cash ow before exceptionals of 397 million, a strengthening of sterling since last March and our successful equity raise in November.
We raised 660 million of equity, 559 million net of all fees, after we successfully reached agreement with the majority of our lenders to extend the maturity of our debt until 2014.
This outcome was a significant endorsement of our business model by the financial community and leaves our balance sheet in a far stronger position.
02 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Welcome to Yell Chairmans statement continued Our role as provider of eective marketing solutions John Davis has stood alongside John Condron to small and medium-sized businesses is more over the past ten years.
He led last years successful relevant than ever.
We ensure our customers are re-nancing of the Group and Yells reputation for found in what is an increasingly complicated and operational excellence and financial resilience is fragmented environment.
We have continued to due, in no small part, to the role John has played develop new, innovative ways for users to nd our as Group CFO.
Having returned stability to the customers, harnessing latest technology including Groups nances, John is taking the opportunity our iPhone and iPad apps and weve improved the to move on to the next phase in his career.
functionality of our sites and our books.
At the same The Board and I will be very sorry to see both Johns time, weve improved our products and made the leave the business.
However, we sales process simpler and more ecient.
fully understand their reasons and are pleased that There are signs of improvement in the rate of they will work with us to ensure an orderly handover revenue decline and in terms of our internet sales to their successors.
growth and stabilising print retention, but the There is no question that the last year has oered business environment looks set to remain challenging unprecedented challenges, but Yell has performed for some time.
The Group is, however, very well impressively given the circumstances.
On behalf of positioned to return to growth once customer the Board, I would like to thank the management confidence returns.
and all our people at Yell who have worked so hard We remain committed to reducing the leverage to ensure the Group strengthened its position as a of the Group and also intend to diversify our senior trusted provider of marketing solutions to so many debt when the conditions are right.
Under the terms small businesses.
It has not been easy with such a of our recent renancing, we are not in a position focus on cost, but the dedication and professionalism to consider reinstating the dividend until we have of all our people has been very evident.
further reduced our senior debt.
At the end of this report you will nd the notice of There have been a number of Board changes over our Annual General Meeting which gives full details the year.
I took over as Chairman of the Group from of the meeting and the resolutions on which I ask Bob Scott at last years Annual General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will be Subsequently, Toby Coppell joined the Board as a held on 29 July 2010 at the oces of Herbert Smith, non-executive director and will be seeking election Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS.
Toby has substantial experience in senior management positions in the internet space after several years with Yahoo and is already proving a considerable asset to the Board.
Also, as you are doubtless aware, we recently announced that both John Condron our CEO and John Davis our CFO will leave the business in the coming year, once their respective successors are in place.
John Condron is retiring after thirty years of outstanding service to Yell.
Under his leadership, Yell has been transformed into the worlds largest business leads group.
More recently, he has steered the business through an unprecedented global slow-down deploying his unrivalled experience to ensure that investment in the business was maintained, our customers continued to feel supported and our people motivated.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 03
