Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans letter Following six consecutive years of strong growth, 2010 was BAE Systems a year of robust performance across the Group in the midst of market challenges.
We continued to achieve progress by developing the business within a clear strategic framework delivered a solid see page 14.
BAESystems has a well-established strategic planning process performance in that generates clear objectives cascaded throughout the business.
The strategy is continually reviewed, and is evolved 2010, building on as objectives are achieved allowing us to proactively address changes in the business environment.
We believe this structured approach provides clarity of our strategic direction for both our the progress in external stakeholders and for our employees.
There are three essential elements to the Groups strategy which recent years.
have been incorporated into the Group Strategic Framework for 2011.
Firstly, the Group plans to operate and target growth in the defence and security market segments of Services, Electronic Dick Olver Systems and Platforms.
Secondly, to build upon the geographic Chairman diversity which has fostered growth to date, the Group will target growth in existing home markets and develop new home markets.
Finally, building on its existing Platforms activity, theGroup will target growth from export business.
The difficult global economic environment for many of our customers is inevitably being felt in a business that works closely with governments.
BAESystems has an excellent track record of adapting to market pressures and, whilst there will bechallenges, such changes can present opportunities to generate new business and help customers deliver capability ina more cost effective way.
Within the Groups Services activities there are numerous examples where we have enabled the armed forces to achieve large cost savings and to provide better value capability.
We believe there is further scope for value to be derived from theway defence capability is generated, in particular where traditional boundaries between industry and the armed forces can be changed.
We look forward to continuing to help provide value enhancing solutions for our customers in this more difficult environment.
Recognising that security has become an increasing priority forgovernments alongside their traditional commitments todefence, our strategy has evolved to address these new opportunities.
In particular, the Group is building a strong position in the Cyber & Intelligence domain.
In addition to pursuing financial goals, we remain committed tobecoming recognised as a leader in business conduct.
We attach great importance to the way we do business as well as tothe results we achieve.
We are approaching this through the development of a more integrated drive for performance inallaspects of our business life.
Good progress has been A robust governance structure underpins the delivery of the Groups strategy 6 www.
com madein embedding these principles of Total Performance, George Rose, Group Finance Director, will retire from the Board including the setting of financial and non-financial objectives on 31 March 2011 after 19 years with the Group.
This years inclusion of the Corporate thank George for his very significant contribution to BAE Systems.
Responsibility report within the pages of this Annual Report Peter Lynas, currently Director, Financial Control, Reporting and reflects this more integrated approach.
Treasury, has been appointed Group Finance Director with effect from 1 April 2011, and will join the Board andExecutive Achieving a culture of Total Performance depends on all our Committee on that date.
employees living a common set of Values Trusted, Innovative and Bold in their day-to-day work.
Shared values and a global The success of the business is built on the hard work, creativity Code of Conduct are particularly important in our increasingly and commitment of our workforce.
I am pleased to be able diverse global business.
toformally recognise many of their achievements through the annual Chairmans Awards.
A new category was introduced The report published by the Woolf Committee in 2008 has been thisyear to recognise employees who have shown outstanding an important framework for the programme of ethical awareness success in implementing our Total Performance culture.
which extends throughout the Group.
We are on track to achieve implementation of the Woolf Committee recommendations by In addition to BAESystems own programme to recognise the May 2011.
The Companys core governance procedures and achievements of our people, we were delighted to also see policies were reviewed during the year and updated to incorporate external recognition.
William McLachlan, a Safety, Health and our Responsible Trading Principles.
Environment Advisor for Surface Ships, was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire MBE for services to charity, and In February 2010, the Company announced a global settlement Howard Robinson, Senior Support Engineer Tornado Software ofcertain regulatory investigations with the US Department of Support, was made MBE for services to the defence industry.
Justice DoJ and the UK Serious Fraud Office SFO, including an agreement with the SFO which provided for a payment of 30m High quality, insightful narrative reporting is an important element for the benefit of the people of Tanzania less any penalty imposed of good governance.
Over the last few years we have looked to by the Court in connection with the agreed basis of settlement.
develop the quality of our reporting so as to provide afair and A penalty of 500,000 together with costs of 225,000 was balanced view of the Company that is informative and accessible imposed by the Court in December 2010.
The remaining balance to readers.
I am pleased that for the second year in a row this has of 29.5m together with interest will be applied by the Company been recognised at the ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance for the benefit of the people of Tanzania in accordance with the Awards, with our 2009 report jointly winning the overall Best applicable Company policies, including those relating to business Annual Report award in 2010. conduct and the making of charitable contributions.
The Company BAE Systems is performing well and the Groups strong position is in the process of creating an advisory board comprising suitably on programmes that provide key capability for customers, qualified and experienced individuals to guide the Company as to together with a large order book, provides good forward visibility.
the possible approaches to the realisation of this objective.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 10.5p per share Following the settlement with the DoJ, dialogue continues with making a total of 17.5p per share for the year, an increase of 9.4% other US regulatory agencies in order to address their concerns over 2009.
At this level, the annual dividend is covered 2.3 times regarding matters arising from the settlement.
by underlying earnings from continuing operations 2009 2.5 The composition of the Groups Board continues to evolve.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2011 Annual InFebruary 2010, Nick Rose was appointed a non-executive General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 1 June 2011 to director of the Company.
Phil Carroll and Andy Inglis, also holders of ordinary shares registered on 26 April 2011. non-executive directors, retired from the Board in May and July2010, respectively.
Harriet Green was appointed a non-executive director of the Company in November 2010.
Ravi Uppal has advised us that, in order to dedicate more time to his business activities in India, he wishes to stand down from the Board at the end of his three-year term on 1 April this year.
I would like to thank him for the contribution he has made to the Board, Dick Olver especially the assistance he has provided in developing our Chairman interests in India.
I and my fellow directors are aware of DIVIDEND The Board has the important responsibility we have for PENCE PER SHARE recommended the good governance of the Company.
We continue to review and evaluate the 20 a final dividend of structure and quality of our governance 16 10.5p making a total arrangements with the aim of ensuring 17.5 16.0 that they remain robust and in line with 12 14.5 of 17.5p for the year, evolving best practice.
Transparency is 12.8 11.3 8 an increase of 9.4% a critical element of good governance, and this Annual Report is the principal 4 on 2009 means by which we express our 0 stewardship of the Company.
06 07 08 09 10 For more information on our p7895 governance structure BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 7 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
