our GovernanCe Chairmans introduCtion Areas of focus in 2010 Adoption of new UK Corporate Governance Code Induction of two new non-executive Directors Remuneration review Areas of focus in 2011 Board composition, evaluation and continuous improvement Enhanced investor relations programme A good measure of a company isthestance it takes on corporate governance.
We believe in applying thehighest standards.
Steve Marshall Chairman 72 Balfour Beatty Our governance | Chairmans introduction | Board of Directors | Directors Report | Remuneration Report | Dear Shareholder accommodated the creation of the new organisational structure.
Balfour Beatty is committed to applying the very highest standards of Further details are given on pages 80 and 81. corporate governance in whichever jurisdiction the Group is operating.
Remuneration Our last strategic review of executive remuneration The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published in was carried out in 2005 and since then, the scale, scope and June2010, has been welcomed by your Board who decided to complexity of our business has changed significantly.
The acquisition implement all the provisions in 2010 rather than delaying implementation of Parsons Brinckerhoff in late 2009 also now gives the Group a until this year.
This included a decision to put forward all the Directors presence across the whole lifecycle of major infrastructure assets for annual re-election at our Annual General Meeting in May 2011. ona global basis.
Although your Board considers that the TheCodes change of tone, signalling the importance of general remuneration policy has operated successfully over the intervening principles guiding Boardroom behaviours, is particularly welcomed, years and has helped to drive performance, we now have a very asis the continuing validation of the comply or explain principle.
different organisation which competes over a range of large, complex and international businesses.
The Remuneration Committee has Turning to each of the main principles of the Code, I wanted to therefore conducted a full review of the remuneration policy and has highlight how these were being applied in practice.
engaged over the past few months with the Companys principal Leadership and effectiveness The formulation of the Group institutional shareholders.
The proposals arising from this review are being presented to shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
For more details strategy, the preparation of the medium-term performance review, theapproval of the annual budget and health and safety are key areas on the proposed new policy, please refer to the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 93 and the Notice of AGM.
of focus for the Board during each annual meeting cycle.
In addition, the Board undertakes a pivotal role in setting the values and the ethical Relations with shareholders Engagement with our investors, standards the organisation employs.
Further information on these amongst other stakeholders, is critically important and in recognition, values and ethical standards isset out on pages 65 and 66 and is we revitalised our investor programme in 2010 and this will continue alsocontained in the Companys 2010 Sustainability Report which is to be strengthened during 2011.
We appointed a Head of Investor being published this year for the first time to coincide with the release Relations during the year, a new role at Group Head Office, which of thisreport.
webelieve will encourage even greater connection with our investors.
In pursuing the principle that non-executive Directors should One of the highlights of our investor programme in 2010 was the successful investors seminar held at the end of November which constructively challenge and help in the development of strategy, wehave reviewed the way our non-executive Directors engage aimed to strengthen investors understanding around the Groups focus on infrastructure services.
Further information on our investors withour operating companies across the Group.
For further information on this, I refer you to page 79 of this report.
programme is given on pages 86 and 87.
We are also taking initiatives to build the level of shareholding Non-executive directors bring with them a wealth of experience gained from a variety of different professional backgrounds.
During 2010, we amongst US investors in recognition that a significant proportion ofour overall business is conducted in the US, or is driven from further strengthened the Board with the appointments of Iain Ferguson and Robert Amen, both of whom bring with them significant theUS, through Professional Services headquartered in New York.
experience of running complex international businesses, inRoberts case in the US, which is an important market for Balfour Beatty.
Accountability The Companys policies and procedures are allgeared towards enabling the Board to present a balanced andunderstandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In 2010, we carried out a review of our risk management Steve Marshall and assurance reporting structure to ensure it properly Chairman How our Board is structured Board Major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure Group strategy Corporate values and ethical standards Annual budgets and financial reporting Management performance Interim and final dividends Risk management and assurance Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Business Group Tender Finance and General Committee Committee Practices and Investment Purposes Committee Committee Committee Financial statements Remuneration Structure and Corporate values, Major contract bids Banking facilities and strategyand policies composition of Board ethics and Codes other arrangements Financial controls Acquisitions and ofConduct Remuneration Appointment disposals Share options External auditor packages ofnon-executive Health & safety Capital expenditure Share buy-backs Internal audit Directors Incentive plans Sustainability Risk management Succession Whistleblowing andassurance planningand talent management Annual report and accounts 2010 73
