6 The Chairman Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 7 Covent Gardens famous Market Building celebrated its 180th year in 2010.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 The Chairman 8 The Chairman These are Capcos first annual results as a stand-alone listed company since its demerger from Liberty International PLC in May 2010.
The aim of the demerger was to allow investors and management to focus on the distinct strategic, capital and economic characteristics of a specialist London non-REIT property investment company.
Independence has refreshed and re-energised Capcos activities, allowing management to act exibly and decisively.
It has affirmed clear goals to generate superior and long-term returns for shareholders, both by enhancing the rental values of holdings through innovative asset management and by identifying and realising new development opportunities through alert and imaginative initiatives.
This strategy is centred on three prime estates located opportunity and a planning application will be in London.
The Covent Garden estate is world famous submitted by June.
At Olympia, following receipt as a centre for shopping, dining and entertainment in of planning consent, Capco is making a substantial a historic location.
The Great Capital Partnership, investment to enhance the exhibition facilities.
a joint venture with Great Portland Estates, includes properties in prime West End locations.
In West Planning for the development of Earls Court as part London, EC&O Venues is one of the countrys leading of the Earls Court & West Kensington Opportunity exhibition businesses with the potential for a major Area ECOA has moved on apace with preparations redevelopment of its land holdings at Earls Court.
for planning submissions progressing well.
The team led by Sir Terry Farrell is creating a masterplan Good progress has been made in all three estates.
for a major new residential-led, mixed-use district of London.
Central to this is the development of There have been a number of important store a sense of place, suitable for future generations, openings and new tenant agreements in Covent which Sir Terry refers to as London Plus.
The Garden, a visible affirmation of the repositioning imminent launch of this plan marks a new phase strategy.
The aim is to continue extending and of regeneration in London.
This is a unique upgrading the choice of Covent Gardens retail and opportunity to transform a London district, and all-day dining, thereby enhancing its reputation Capco is pleased to be working with Transport for as a truly world-class city centre destination.
There has also been a refocusing of The Great Capital London and the London Borough of Hammersmith Partnership, with the disposal of properties outside & Fulham, and to be engaged with the Greater the core area of Piccadilly and Regent Street.
London Authority and the Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea.
At EC&O, the Seagrave Road car park has the potential to be a valuable residential development Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 The Chairman 9 Results and dividend briengs, transparency and an open culture of The Groups total return in 2010 was 18 per cent, driven supportive challenge by Non-executive Directors.
by the valuation of its properties which increased An independent Board effectiveness review has been by 10.8 per cent on a like-for-like basis in the year, completed and has provided useful insights and outperforming the IPD index of capital values for 2010 advice on optimising the effectiveness of the Board.
Rising rental values in Covent Garden were a significant contributor to this growth.
Shareholders The increase in values has generated an EPRA adjusted, The Companys shares are traded on the London diluted NAV per share at 31 December of 148 pence.
One of the The Group has a prudent balance sheet and significant aims of the demerger was to give existing Liberty cash reserves to support its stated asset plans.
The International shareholders a choice of investment Directors are proposing a final dividend of 1 pence per strategy, whilst offering Capco an opportunity to share, bringing the amount paid and payable for 2010 develop a shareholder base to support its central to 1.5 pence.
In this regard, it is pleasing to see a number of new shareholders on the register, People which has evolved considerably since listing.
It is testament to the efforts and commitment of the Groups people that the business has continued to The outlook perform well during a period when the demerger This has been a year in which Capco has successfully and the establishment of independent operations established itself as a publicly listed company with has required significant internal restructuring.
a clear central London strategy and assets with In November 2010 the Company established an the potential to unlock value.
London offers many independent corporate office in Grosvenor Street, business and consumer attractions as a global city.
London, as part of its transition.
The London economy, and in particular the property market, has proved to be highly resilient in the general The Company has an entrepreneurial and experienced downturn.
Nevertheless, the UK macro-economic management team and has been developing a culture situation is delicately poised and so the requirement to to support its strategic aims.
This includes fostering be conservative with cash and debt continues.
Capco is and encouraging individual qualities of openness, well positioned nancially and will remain prudent in clarity of purpose, team orientation, personal its approach.
contribution, creativity and rigorous execution.
The Company has made good progress this year.
The Board We are now turning our attention to developing the Henry Staunton was appointed an independent Nonlonger term strategic blueprint for Capco as a London executive Director in June 2010 and became Chairman place maker the property investment company that of the Audit Committee shortly afterwards.
Henry was brings new life to London districts, commercially, previously Finance Director at Granada and ITV.
London offers excellent experience as a Non-executive Director is reected in opportunities for medium and long-term sustainable his other current appointments, which include Legal growth in capital and rental values and Capco has a & General Group, WH Smith and Merchants Trust.
management team capable of realising that potential.
David Fischel stepped down from his position as a Non-executive Director in February 2011, following the completion of a transitional period since the demerger.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him for his contribution ahead of, and since, the Companys listing.
I. C. Durant A clear governance structure has been established 2 March 2011 with independent Directors active in appropriate committees and a modus operandi for Board engagement which encourages regular and informal Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
