04 Group overview chairmans statement lookinG AFteR YouR inteRests this has been an important year for the Group: the recovery of the housing market continued, we recapitalised the business and started to see the benefits of a much improved operational performance.
As a result we achieved a profit after tax in the second half of the year and significant improvements in quality and customer service.
market conditions our response During the year conditions in the housing Our response to the restrictions that the current market in Britain steadily improved.
market conditions impose has been very clear.
Nevertheless, by historic standards the Our priorities have been driving efficiency and market remained difficult and activity levels optimising selling price growth.
As a result, continued to be extremely low in terms of we have reduced volumes but have driven the number of house buyers and sellers.
significant margin improvement, especially in the second half of the year.
The key restriction on the industry remains the availability of mortgage finance.
Whilst A vital component of our response to market there was some improvement during the year, conditions has been to overhaul many the lack of availability of suitable higher loan operational aspects of our business.
This has to value products continued to restrict the lowered costs and has also driven far-reaching new build sector where customer deposits improvements in the quality of our business.
The quality of our homes has never been With demand continuing to be constrained, higher.
For the first time in the Groups history the industry responded by opening fewer we have achieved Home Builders Federation sites and controlling stock better.
Whilst the Five Star status, the highest achievable level, Fifth Avenue improved balance between supply and in terms of customer satisfaction and whether in harlow by demand has stabilised prices, it has done we would be recommended to a friend.
Barratt north london, part little to address the nations fundamental Additionally, under the NHBC Pride in the Job of harlows housing shortage which in the longer term scheme our site managers have won more Gateway will underpin the sectors growth.
quality awards than ever before and more project.
than any one of our competitors for the sixth year running.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 GRoup oveRview 05 The high level of quality has also helped strong cash management also contributed to underpin our pricing policy.
We are to a further reduction in debt levels by the determined to get the best possible price year end.
for the outstanding homes that we build and we have the right sales and marketing As previously indicated and in accordance capabilities to achieve this.
with the terms of our financing arrangements, no dividend will be paid in respect of the 2010 Average selling price increased by 10.9% financial year.
However, the Board is committed during the year and by 17.8% between to reinstating the payment of dividends when 1 January and 30 June 2010 compared with it is appropriate to do so.
This partly reflected price inflation but was mainly driven by the securing land for the future changing profile of what we build.
Customer The foundation of our future business and demand and mortgage availability have both margin growth is the land we buy.
We have driven a change in our product mix away from worked hard to maintain our long-term flats towards houses.
This change in mix will relationships with land sellers throughout a continue as we start to build on the many very difficult period for the industry and have the foundation of our future sites we have successfully replanned, benefited from this during the year along with business and margin growth working together with local authorities.
This enabled is the land we buy.
we have us to expand successfully our presence in worked hard to maintain a stronger financial position the land market, securing a strong flow of During the year we substantially improved our potentially high margin sites, with a view to our long-term relationships financial position and reduced our debt levels.
We have maintained with land sellers throughout We strengthened our balance sheet through a disciplined approach.
Wherever possible we a very difficult period for the Placing and the Rights Issue which raised are acquiring land on deferred terms and we the industry and have gross proceeds of 720.5m.
We also amended have recently increased our hurdle rates to our financing arrangements.
This was an ensure that we secure only the best benefited from this during important strategic move for us enabling us to opportunities.
the year along with our develop existing sites and to take advantage of stronger financial position.
attractive new land purchasing opportunities.
our employees Our improved operational performance and As Chairman, I spend a considerable amount of time with our employees at all levels.
We have in place an exceptionally able and experienced senior management team.
They are supported by our employees who are I believe amongst the very best in the industry.
These have been difficult times for our people and their families and they should take a great deal of pride from the strength of the businesss recovery.
We are now operating more efficiently but also at far higher quality levels and that would not have been possible without their commitment, skill and resilience.
the future Whilst economic uncertainty may influence the Companys future, the capabilities of the Group are strong and continuing to develop.
We have a skilled work-force, a strong land bank and an improving financial position.
We are at the forefront of many of the changes that will dominate the industry in future years: evolving customer demand, design and environmental standards and changes in planning.
We are therefore well equipped to compete now and in the future.
Bob Lawson Chairman 7 September 2010 Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
