Chairmans Statement The pace slowed as the year progressed and total returns for the second half of the year were virtually all attributable to income, with only a small amount of capital growth.
For the year as a whole, prime property and London in particular outperformed.
This was an attractive backdrop for the Companys portfolio, with its strategic overweight position to Central London properties.
In the occupational market, although there were signs of improvement in some areas, rent levels across the market as a whole contracted for the third consecutive year.
The Managers have continued to be pro-active in renegotiating leases where appropriate and in keeping voids and bad debts to a minimum and well below market levels.
The preservation of rental income continues to be particularly important in the current economic John Stephen Chairman environment.
As explained in the Managers Review, despite a strongly competitive investment market, two I am delighted to be presenting to shareholders a properties were purchased during the year for an very positive and robust set of figures for a year in aggregate consideration of 27.6 million.
This which your Company has been set a number of included 24.6 million for a distribution warehouse in challenges within both the prevailing market Revolution Park, Chorley and is inclusive of capital conditions and the management of the Company.
works of 8.3 million for a racking system which During the year ended 31 December 2010 the was partly installed as at the end of the year.
This Companys net asset value NAV per share purchase increased the Companys exposure to the increased by 11.2 per cent to 96.3p per share.
The industrial and logistics sector and with the initial yield NAV total return for the year was 18.4 per cent, of over 9 per cent provides an enhancement to the comparing favourably with a market portfolio return revenue account.
of 15.1 per cent as measured by the benchmark The Company made one disposal during the year: a Investment Property Databank IPD All Quarterly shop in Commercial Street, Leeds for 8.8 million.
The share price total The Company also sold the remaining units in its return was 25.1 per cent and the share price at the two indirect property funds, the Industrial Property year end was 105.6p, representing a premium of Investment Fund and The Mall LP, for a total 9.7 per cent to the NAV per share.
consideration of 9.0 million, realising a small gain The ungeared total return from the property portfolio over their valuations at the end of the previous year.
during the year was 17.7 per cent, reflecting strong During the year the Company started the absolute and relative performance against the IPD re-development of 24-27 Great Pulteney Street, benchmark.
The portfolio has a strong performance London W1 with a contracted cost of 10.7 million.
record, being measured top quartile over one, three This is an exciting development of 32,000 sq ft of and five years by IPD.
Grade A specification office space in Londons West End which is expected to complete in October Over the year, UK commercial property values 2011.
This and other property initiatives undertaken continued the recovery which began during 2009.
4 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited during the year are detailed in the Managers drawn down a new 50 million secured bank facility the Facility with Barclays Bank plc, which is Review.
The interest payable, including The following table provides an analysis of the the margin, was fixed through an interest rate swap movement in the NAV per share for the year: at an aggregate interest rate of 4.88 per cent per Pence annum for the full term of the Facility.
NAV per share as at 31 December 2009 86.6 The principal covenants relating to the Facility are Realised gain on disposal of indirect property disclosed in note 14 to the accounts.
The Board holdings 0.4 Realised gain on disposal of direct properties 0.0 believes that the Facility offers attractive terms for Unrealised increase in valuation of direct longer dated debt and diversifies the periods to the property portfolio 11.2 repayment of the Companys borrowings.
It also Movement in interest rate swap 0.1 provides additional cash to take advantage of Merger abort costs 0.1 investment opportunities.
Net revenue 4.3 Dividends paid 6.0 As at 31 December 2010 the Companys NAV per share as at 31 December 2010 96.3 borrowings amounted to 279 million in aggregate and it held cash balances of 112 million.
This resulted in a level of gearing net of cash of 20.4 per The Board is pleased that the Company was cent as at 31 December 2010, which compares recognised as the best property investment trust of with 18.5 per cent as at 31 December 2009.
This award is in recognition of the Companys good long term performance record and the quality of the fund  management process.
In April 2010 the Board announced that it had received an unsolicited proposal which would Dividends have resulted in the merger of the Company with Twelve interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, UK Commercial Property Trust Limited UKCPT.
were paid during the year maintaining the annual At the same time, it was announced that the dividend of 6.0p per share.
Barring unforeseen Companys majority shareholder, Resolution Limited circumstances, the Board intends that dividends in Resolution, had reduced its shareholding from 2011 will continue to be paid monthly at the same 50.3 per cent to 34.1 per cent and that the shares rate.
sold had been acquired by Phoenix Group which owns Ignis Investment Services Limited, the investment manager of UKCPT.
The proposals were  conditional upon the support of a majority of the The Companys principal borrowings comprise Companys independent shareholders comprising 230 million Secured Bonds which have been 49.7 per cent of the total shares not held by assigned an Aaa rating by Moodys Investor Resolution or Phoenix Group at an Extraordinary Services.
The bonds mature in June 2015 and carry General Meeting EGM held on 9 August 2010. interest at a fixed rate of 5.23 per cent per annum.
The required majority of the independent During the year, and as reported in detail in the shareholders did not support the proposals at the Interim Report, the Board announced that the EGM and therefore the merger did not take effect.
Company had transferred its interests in St. Christophers Place Estate, London W1 to a newlyI am pleased to report that throughout the period established wholly-owned company within the of the merger proposals, the Managers acted in Group.
It also announced that the Company had an extremely professional manner, continuing to Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Chairmans Statement continued manage the portfolio in the best interests of Federation.
He is a past chairman of the Investment Property Forum and is a UK resident.
Following the EGM, and after consultation with the Companys key shareholders, I know that Chris and Martin will excel in their roles the Board announced the continuing appointment of and that the Company is in excellent hands.
I thank F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc as the each of my Board colleagues for their support, Companys Property Managers.
The revised terms of particularly during my tenure as Chairman.
their appointment are as previously announced and provided in note 2 to the accounts.
The Board Outlook considers the revised terms to be competitive.
The economy remains in a subdued state with Excluding performance fees, which reflect portfolio recovery likely to be slow and hesitant.
Growth performance in the interests of shareholders, the prospects are influenced by uncertainty as to how revised terms will further reduce the Companys the Governments austerity measures will affect the actual total expense ratio and improve its dividend economy and there are continuing problems in the cover, maintaining the trend of the Historic Record financial markets both nationally and globally.
in this regard see table on page 51.
The coming year is expected to be challenging and BoardComposition with investors risk-averse prime properties are After serving as a non-executive Director since the expected to continue to outperform.
Stock selection Companys launch in 2005 and as Chairman since will be critical together with active property asset October 2009, I shall step down from the Board at management to preserve and enhance income and the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2011 the minimise voids.
I am pleased that Chris Russell, who was In such an environment, the Board continues to appointed as a non-executive Director in October believe that the quality and weighting of the portfolio 2009 and Deputy Chairman in September 2010, will and the availability of cash reserves for investment in succeed me as Chairman following the AGM.
suitable opportunities mean that the Company is I am delighted to announce the appointment of well placed to make further progress in the months Martin Moore as an independent non-executive ahead.
Director with effect from 31 March 2011.
Martin has very considerable real estate experience from his role as Managing Director of Prudential Property Investment Managers Limited, the property asset management arm of Prudential plc.
He is also a JohnStephen board adviser to The Crown Estate and a board Chairman member and past president of the British Property 22March2011 6 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
