Chairmans Statement BBA Aviation delivered a good set of results in 2010.
With both Flight Support and Aftermarket Services and Systems returning to growth, revenue and profitability increased.
Our maintained capital discipline also resulted in continued strong cash generation and an improved return on invested capital.
We also made further good strategic progress.
Our 2010 performance reflects the underlying strengths of our business, our organic growth prospects, consolidation opportunities and the focus of our strong management team on implementing continued operational improvement.
Results Following an unprecedented downturn in our major markets in 2008 and 2009 it is very encouraging to be able to report that the principal driver of our revenues, business and general aviation flyi ng hours in North America, grew in 2010 and both of our divisions returned to growth as expected.
Revenue increased by 4% on an organic basis and underlying operating profi ts increased by 10% to 110.6million 2009: 100.5 million as a result of the increased activity across both divisions and other factors including further operational improvement.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 21% to 17.6p 2009: 14.6p.
We continued to deliver strong cash flo w from the business with free cash flo w in the year of 115.2 million 2009: 137.5 million.
We have now delivered in excess of 325 million of free cash fl ow in the last three years.
Net debt was reduced to 313.9 million at the end of 2010 2009: 391.6 million, despite a foreign exchange loss of 12.0 million, and the Groups leverage ratio net debt to EBITDA was improved substantially to 2.1 times 2009: 2.8 times.
At the same time as delivering operationally, we have continued to make strategic progress with the addition of two new FBOs at Montreal and Fresno, the international expansion of ASIG into Panama and the award to ERO by Honeywell of an independent engine authorisation for Asia Pacifi c which will allow us to expand our presence in this region during 2011.
This strategic progress has continued in the fi first quarter of 2011 with Signatures agreement to acquire the Yellowstone Jetcenter FBO in Bozeman, Montana and Legacy Supports agreement to acquire GE Aviation Systems fuel measurement business which increases its exposure to the commercial aviation market and its non-US product portfolio, as well as adding third generation electronics expertise.
Dividend A fi final dividend 5.7p has been recommended by the Board 2009: 5.3p taking the dividend for the full year to 8.1p 2009: 7.6p, an increase of 7%.
This increase refl ects the Boards continued confi dence in the Groupsprospects whilst at the same time progressively re-building cover.
6 Directors Report Corporate Governance The Board believes that good corporate governance also contributes to the growth of sustainable value for BBA Aviations stakeholders.
In our Corporate Governance Statement on pages 68 to 74 you can read in greater detail about the ways in which the principles relating to the Boards role and eff ectiveness set out in the UKs Combined Code on Corporate Governance have been applied in practice over the past year.
One aspect of this is our programme of briefi ngs, presentations and site visits, at which Board members meet senior executives and employees in individual operations.
Employees I would like to record the Boards sincere gratitude to all of BBA Aviations employees who have worked so hard through a very diffi cult period.
I am very proud of the contribution they have made during the downturn and am very pleased that they too are now able to see the fruits of their eff orts as we return to growth.
Our employees remain committed to our overarching objective to grow exceptional, long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders by focusing on BBA Aviations vision, mission and values, set out in more detail on page 14.
Sustainability and CSR are a fundamental part of BBA Aviations vision and mission and I am pleased to report that we have continued to make good progress in this area as reported in the CSR section on pages 60-63.
Outlook As our major markets continue their gradual recovery we expect to make further progress in 2011.
The underlying strengths of our business and our organic growth and consolidation opportunities, together with a continued focus on operational improvement, mean that we expect to deliver a strong performance and generate superior returns over the longer term.
Michael Harper Chairman Directors Report 7
