04 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Chairmans statement Results The Groups underlying profit before tax for the year increased by 88%to47.3m 2009: 25.2m, on revenue which improved by 21% to677.0m 2009: 560.7m.
The Groups reported profit before tax increased by 173% to 36.8m 2009: 13.5m.
Overview The real estate markets in Asia, which had begun to improve substantially in the second half of 2009, culminated in a record performance from our Asia Pacific business in 2010.
In addition, theLondon Prime Residential market remained strong for longer thanwe anticipated and the London Commercial market continued toattract significant inflows of both domestic and international capital.
InContinental Europe our restructuring activities of the last 18 months have begun to deliver benefit, with the losses halving year on year in Having coped with the downturn of line with our plans.
Cordea Savills, the Groups Fund Management 2008 09, 2010 was characterised business improved its performance in the first year of Savills full ownership exhibiting significant success in investing core funds despite by the record performance of Savills competitive markets.
Transaction Advisory business in Asia Our non-transactional businesses performed as anticipated against Pacific and continued strength in the the backdrop of continuing pressure on margins in most markets.
Prime Residential and Commercial Wecontinued to build the Property Management business, with the recruitment of senior managers in the UK and France and significant markets of London.
operational investment under way in Asia Pacific.
The economic impact of the Chinese real estate market has been thesubject of much commentary during the year, alongside the progressive control measures imposed since March 2010 by the Chinese Government.
It is too early to predict the outcome of such measures but China remains a key focus for Savills current and future growth plans.
Tothis end, in December 2010, we brought our established businesses inHong Kong and Mainland China under the single leadership of Raymond Lee, who to date has been the head of our operations in Hong Kong.
Given the importance of Greater China to Savills future prospects, Raymond also joined the Group Executive Board with effect from January 2011.
During the year we made a number of acquisitions to accelerate implementation of our strategy or to improve our service offering to clients.
These include the acquisition of the minority interest in Cordea Savills, the Groups Fund Management business, in order to aid the development of that business in line with our strategic intent to grow fund management.
We also acquired Incoll Group Pty Ltd, an Australian Project Management business, to build on our capabilities inthis area.
Since the year end we have acquired Thomas Davidson &Partners, a UK Agency focused on the retail sector in London, andStadsmuren A.
B. a property, project and facilities management business in Sweden, which complements our existing investment agency activities in the region.
05 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Chairmans statement continued The Group Executive Board GEB, under the Chairmanship of Distribution of profits JeremyHelsby, the Group CEO, comprises the Heads of our principal During the year, the Board conducted a review of its approach to businesses who report directly to him, the Chief Executive of our dividends in order to establish a distribution policy which might better business in Greater China, the Group CFO and the Group Legal stand the test of time and cyclical real estate markets.
In so doing we Director & Company Secretary.
The remit of the GEB is to assist the considered the impact of a number of issues such as the degree of Board of Savills plc to define the Group Strategy, deliver the strategic maintainability of Savills various different profit streams: the Groups priorities and be accountable for operational performance.
overall exposure to cyclical Transaction Advisory profits and the requirement to maintain a certain level of cash resource for working The Heads of the principal businesses continue to meet with the plc capital and corporate development purposes.
Added to this, was Board on a rotational basis to discuss the strategic development of ourdesire to ensure that the total distribution to shareholders could their businesses.
bebetter geared to Transaction Advisory profits in a way that a People progressive dividend policy alone cannot accomplish.
On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my thanks to all our people In future the Board intends to recommend a progressive ordinary worldwide for their hard work and continued focus on client service dividend broadly reflecting the growth in profits derived from our less enabling the Group to deliver a strong set of results in recovering volatile businesses.
The ordinary dividend would normally be paid at markets.
Overall, staff costs in the year, including the cost of awards the rate of one third as an interim dividend and two thirds as a final under our deferred share schemes, remained within the range that dividend.
In addition, when profits from the cyclical Transaction weexpect for these costs over the cycle, of 60% to 65% of revenue.
Advisory business are strong, the Board will consider and, if appropriate, declare a supplemental interim dividend alongside the Outlook final ordinary dividend.
The value of any such supplemental dividend In the near term it is unclear how markets will react in light of the recent will not be progressive and will vary depending on the performance of catastrophic events in Japan, particularly at a time of unprecedented the Groups Transaction Advisory business and the Groups anticipated global economic and political change.
For the markets of Mainland working capital and corporate development requirements through the China, Hong Kong and Singapore these events come on top of cycle.
It is intended that, in normal circumstances, the combined value Government measures of the last twelve months to address property of the ordinary and any supplemental dividend payable in respect of speculation.
The longer term potential of our Asian business remains any year is covered at least 1.5 times by statutory earnings per share compelling, however at this stage, we continue to expect a reduced and or at least 2.0 times by underlying earnings per share.
volume of transactions in the region in 2011.
An initial interim dividend of 3p net per share amounting to 3.7m At the same time we anticipate further recovery in the US and parts 2009: 3p was paid on 25 October 2010, and an ordinary final ofContinental Europe, some growth for the prime London Residential dividendof 6p 2009: 6p is recommended for the year.
In addition, and Commercial businesses and continued growth in Fund asupplemental interim dividend of 4p 2009: nil is declared.
Although it is impossible to be certain in current Takentogether, the ordinary and supplemental dividends comprise circumstances, we anticipate that any slowdown in Asia should anaggregate distribution for the year of 13p per share representing belargely offset by improving performances elsewhere.
anincrease of 44% on 2009s uncovered aggregate dividend of 9p.
Thefinal ordinary dividend of 6p per ordinary share will, subject to Our confidence in the longer term potential of our business is shareholders approval at the Groups Annual General Meeting reflectedin the substantial increase in annual dividend and our on4May 2011, be paid alongside the supplemental interim dividend newdividend policy.
of4pper share on 16 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at 8April2011.
Peter Smith Board and management Chairman During the course of the year, we have made a number of changes to our internal governance structure to help us better deliver our strategy.
In January 2010, we announced the restructuring of the Board of Savills plc, which now comprises the Non-Executive Directors, the CEO, CFO and myself as Chairman.
The plc Board remains responsible for the strategy of the Group and, while continuing to hold management responsible for the delivery of our plans and operational performance, has reshaped its agenda to focus on the achievement ofour strategic priorities.
