08 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Business review Chairmans Statement In my final statement to you as Chairman, I am pleased to report on a strong recovery by your Company with a return to profit and NAV growth.
Anthony Glossop Chairman The Trentham Estate and Gardens, where visitor levels increased by almost 50% to 315,000 in 2010.
co. uk 09 Dear Shareholder, Directors and Employees At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Ian Menzies-Gow will In my final statement to you as Chairman and as predicted in our half retire after nine years service, the last two as Senior Independent year and interim management statements, I am pleased to be able to Director.
His robust and incisive contribution to Board debate was report on a strong recovery by your Company with a return to profit and always of the greatest assistance and I would like to thank him for his NAV growth.
Profit before tax was 37.5m 2009: loss of 119.4m with net asset It is intended that Ian will be replaced as Senior Independent Director by value per share growing by 9% to 218p 2009: 200p.
David Garman who joined us in April 2010 as a non-executive director.
These results were driven by significant progress in property profits to David has a broad range of industrial experience both in an executive 21.9m 2009: 7.6m and a recovery in valuation gains of 23.0m and non-executive capacity, which I expect to be of great assistance to 2009: 122.3m, of which 17.6m were attributable to asset the Company.
management initiatives, progressing our projects through the planning I will also step down as Chairman at the same time and I would like and development stages marshalling and other added value activities.
to welcome Bill Shannon who joined us in November 2010 as my These achievements resulted in a 7% increase in our diluted EPRA net designated successor.
He had a long and successful executive career asset value, which now stands at 234p per share 2009: 219p, and with Whitbread PLC before establishing himself as a respected helped generate a positive operational cashflow and enabled us to reduce non-executive.
We also welcome Michael Dunn as Group Finance Director.
He joined in December 2010 to replace Tim Haywood who left us last year after Our active approach to asset management has led to an increase in almost eight years service with the Company.
Michael, who joined us recurring income and our rent roll, and vacancy levels within our portfolio from May Gurney, has extensive experience of working for publicly listed have reduced to 12% 2009: 17%.
Our financial position has been companies in the construction and outsourcing sectors and will be a further improved by active management of our funding requirements, great asset to the Company.
through adding to and extending our existing banking facilities.
Dividends The fact that the Company has emerged from the undoubted challenges On the back of this recovery, dividend payments were resumed at the of the past three years in such good shape is largely due to the expertise half year and your Board is now recommending a final dividend of 2p and drive of the Companys employees at all levels in the organisation.
2009: nil per ordinary share, making a total distribution for the year Their dedication and skill has been of the highest order.
This final dividend will be paid on 4th April 2011 to a pleasure to work with.
shareholders on the register on 11th March 2011.
Prospects Strategy Although the property market and broader economic prospects remain Our strategy is a long-standing and consistent one: to add value to uncertain, and the impact of spending cuts has yet to be fully felt, we the properties we control through remediation, marshalling, asset are nevertheless confident of the prospects for the Company.
We have management, development and delivery by our first rate regional a long track record of generating value from our traditional activities teams, focusing on areas where our regeneration and brownfield of regeneration and the proactive management of secondary assets, expertise enables us to generate profits in commercial and residential and the results for the year to 30th November 2010 demonstrate that development.
we have been able to manage our business and assets through the global crisis while continuing to progress our portfolio of development Our business model has evolved over many years to ensure that our projects to ensure the company is well positioned to deliver value for our longer-term development activities are underpinned by a reliable shareholders.
recurring income stream and capital appreciation generated by our As we look forward, our financial position is sound: our business portfolio of rent-producing properties.
These assets are now valued at model will increasingly create value: our valuations are prudent, and over 500m, representing 50% by value of our total portfolio, and ensure our recurring income is robust.
We are also in a good position to seize we can progress our developments in a controlled and profitable manner.
attractive opportunities to add further to the hopper, our regional teams In addition, we own an extensive landbank our hopper of over continue to find opportunities to generate value and we are seeing a 5,700 developable acres, 38% of which comprises land earmarked for gradual recovery of liquidity in our key markets.
I am confident that I leave the Company in capable hands and that 2011 During the course of this year, many commentators have focused will be a year of further progress.
their attention on the prospects for prime assets.
It is therefore pleasing that we have been able demonstrably to deliver against our strategy and business model and record healthy year on year growth anthony Glossop in profits, property valuations and net asset values.
Our development Chairman and remediation activity levels have improved: we have continued to 4th February 2011 progress our schemes successfully through the planning process to ensure a pipeline of future activity and added value, and the hopper including our share of joint ventures and associates as detailed in note 2. of development opportunities has increased to record levels through a programme of selective acquisitions.
We are always looking to challenge and improve this strategy.
Our groundbreaking joint venture with Persimmon, which covers 2,000 plots on seven sites, is a clear example of how we are able to extract value and cash from the longer-term residential assets in the hopper, accelerating the use of our residential land stock and improving profitability.
