Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 01 Chairmans introduction From Christopher Kemball Refocusing.
Welcome to our first annual report under our new name, Berendsen plc.
One company one name We changed our name from The Davis Service Group Plc on 4th January 2011, in order to align the group more closely with its main operating brand and to promote a one company vision, both internally and externally, which we believe will enable us to further capitalise on the benefits of shared knowledge and experience.
At the same time, we believe that the local brands should be retained, such as Sunlight in the UK, where they continue to have strong market recognition.
Our performance in 2010 26 Read more on our performance We are pleased to report a good set of results for the group at the upper end, of our expectations, with our core textile maintenance businesses delivering a 1.3% improvement in adjusted operating margin compared with 2009 and, after accounting for the loss in clinical solutions and decontamination and central costs, group adjusted operating profit increased 7% to 123.9 million 2009: 115.3 million.
Our adjusted earnings per share were 6% above last year at 41.7 pence per share 39.4 pence.
We are therefore increasing our proposed total dividend for the year from 20.0 pence per share to 21.2 pence.
We have a number of exceptional items to report this year including the profit on sale of Bjrnklder, restructuring in German healthcare and the impairment of goodwill in relation to German healthcare and UK decontamination contracts, which we have now provisioned for future anticipated losses.
Our earnings per share after these and other exceptional charges, which are described on page 30 of the Financial review, and amortisation of customer contracts was 12.9 pence 26.6 pence.
A comprehensive strategic review Read more on our group strategic During 2010, on the appointment of Peter Ventress as the Chief Executive, 08, objectives and performance measures weundertook a strategic review of the business in order to build upon our well established and well invested operating platform, with leading positions inseveral core European markets, supported by strong and stable leadership.
In November 2010, we presented the results of the review which confirmed the robust base but demonstrated that there is scope for the group to deliver higher growth through a greater degree of focus.
We announced our intention to move to a business line organisation instead of our current geographical structure.
Plans for implementation of this move are underway and we expect to be managing our operations along business lines from 1st July 2011.
We also set out at that time those business lines that we consider to offer core growth workwear, facilities including mats, washroom and cleanroom, and UK healthcare and hotel linen and those which we will manage for value clinical solutions and decontamination and healthcare and hotel linen outside the UK.
During 2010 we have delivered revenue growth of 3% in our core growth businesses but our manage for value businesses decreased 2%, excluding Bjrnklder.
Outlook The board believes that the group is well positioned to achieve further growth in the current year.
