Unite 04 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Overview Chairmans statement 2010 was a year of excellent progress for UNITE, particularly given the uncertain economic backdrop and the announcement of major changes to university and student funding.
The Group saw significant improvements in both profitability delivering a net portfolio contribution of 4.1 million up from 0.6 million in 2009 and a loss of 5.4 million in 2008 and adjusted net asset value up 11% to 295pence per share.
Over the past few years we have carefully developed our strategy and business model to address the emerging changes to the environment in which we operate.
We have focused our investment in strong university locations, particularly London, delivered lasting operational efficiencies and strengthened our balance sheet through a series of important measures.
As a result, the Group withstood the financial crisis and is well positioned to adapt to the forthcoming changes to UK Higher Education.
We expect demand for well located, well managed and high quality student accommodation to remain strong in the years ahead even though we do not expect For 2010 11 Unite again student numbers themselves to grow significantly due to a number of supply side achieved high occupancy constraints.
Applications to study at university exceeded available places by 160,000 in levels 97% and healthy 2010 and in most major university towns and cities there is stillnot enough accommodation to house those students that do get a place.
Capital constraints and a tough planning rentalgrowth 3.1%.
environment mean that the level of new supply over the next few years is unlikely to be material.
As a result, the outlook for rental growth and selective development opportunities in our sector is positive.
For 2010 11 UNITE again achieved high occupancy levels 97% and healthy rental 97% growth 3.1%.
Looking forward, demand for UNITEs accommodation in 2011 12 looks to occupancy levels be even stronger with reservations at the end of February already at 62% of available rooms, compared to 59% in 2010.
We expect rental growth for 2011 12 to be at a similar level to 2010 11.
Strategy Over the past four years the Group has successfully established itself as a developer and co-investing manager, selling the majority of its operating portfolio to the UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund USAF, its flagship multi-investor fund, and using the proceeds to reduce borrowings and fund new development activity.
This strategy has served the Group well.
Looking forward, in order to increase our share of recurring profits we plan to retain a higher ownership stake in our current development portfolio as it is completed whilst also enhancing our London portfolio weighting.
With USAF also having largely achieved its own objectives in terms of scale, diversity and track record and with a healthy secondary trading market for USAF units emerging, we expect asset sales from the Group to the Fund to be more modest in the coming years.
We believe that this, together with continued good rental growth prospects for thesector, asset management potential across a large and diverse portfolio and further earnings accretive development opportunities particularly in London forms a clear basis from which to increase net portfolio contribution NPC andnet asset value NAV in the coming years.
Targeted development activity We are on track to secure and deliver our future London development pipeline inline with plan.
The Group now has approximately 2,800 bed spaces secured fordelivery in London between 2012 and 2014, of which 1,341 are to be delivered in 2012 and have all the necessary funding and planning consents in place.
Inaddition, our four 2011 projects Phil White in London, Manchester, Reading and Glasgow remain on track for summer delivery.
Chairman 2 March 2011 The delivery of our development pipeline will be accretive to earnings and netasset value.
The full secured pipeline will account for 69 million of future NAVuplift and a potential 14 million of recurring NPC assuming plan targets arehit and that borrowing against the pipeline is not increased.
Projects in the Groups secured pipeline have been carefully selected to address the areas of greatest market need.
Over 90% of our pipeline in London consists of en suite bedrooms, where the market shortage is most acute, and over half of these are targeted at the value end of the price spectrum, with rents being positioned approximately 20% below the current market average.
This value proposition is achieved through a combination of specification, configuration and location factors and leaves the Group well placed to cater for changing customer demands.
In addition to the above, we remain confident that we will secure the remainder of our target London pipeline during 2011, increasing the 2,800 beds currently in place toapproximately 4,000 and meaning that the capital currently available to the Group will then be substantially committed.
Beyond this we intend to commit between a further 100 million and 150 million to new development activity by the end of 2012, tobe funded by the disposal of selected assets from our investment portfolio to asimilar value.
Proactive asset management Our diverse national presence and focus on strong university locations, both through our wholly-owned and co-investment portfolios, continues to underpin good rental growth prospects.
In addition, we see an increasing opportunity to enhance returns further through Unite 05 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 a range of refurbishment, extension and reversionary initiatives in the coming years as well as pursuing further efficiencies that will improve net operating margin.
Other growth opportunities In addition to the growth derived from our development and asset management activities, we continue to believe that opportunities will also emerge to acquire andreposition certain assets owned by other operators and also to pursue accommodation partnership projects with universities.
During 2010, for example, USAF acquired a single 25 million asset in Newcastle from a third party and UNITE together with a consortium of investment partners pursued, ultimately unsuccessfully, a possible partnership to operate a portfolio of 4,000 beds on behalf of a major UK university.
We will continue to examine such opportunities but will only pursue them if we are confident that to do so will not distract from the core objectives of the Group.
Furthermore, the majority of any capital required to pursue any such opportunities is likely to be sourced from third parties.
the Group now has Dividend approximately 2,800 bed In light of the Groups encouraging progress and the generally positive outlook for the spaces secured fordelivery business, the Board intends to reinstate a dividend during 2011.
Any dividend is likely to represent between one quarter and one half of NPC, with the first payment likely to be inLondon between 2012 confirmed with the Groups half-year results.
No dividend is proposed for 2010. and2014, of which 1,341 aretobe delivered in 2012. Financing The Group has made excellent progress over the past two years in extending, restructuring and replacing debt facilities both on and off balance sheet.
Although it has very few near-term maturities and plenty of headroom against covenants, the Group has proactively sought to engage with lenders to ensure anappropriate debt structure 2,800 inthe medium term both for itself and its various co-investment vehicles.
As a result of this andthe continued support of a broad range of lenders, during 2010 the Group arranged bed places secured in London 200 million of new facilities and extended or restructured a further 120 million of borrowings.
We will continue this approach of proactive engagement to liability management throughout 2011, well ahead of debt maturities, ensuring appropriate integration with the Groups underlying asset management strategies.
In addition to enhancing the Groups debt structure, we also intend to develop aclear strategy to replace, restructure or extend the Groups various joint venture vehicles.
Working in conjunction with our joint venture partners, finalising this strategy will be a priority for 2011.
People and operations Within our organisation we have made a number of important changes, improvements and appointments which will ensure our employees are able toprovide the highest levels of customer service.
Continued improvements toouronline booking system, refocused marketing activity and renewed accountabilities for our city-based staff have improved our service levels andourworking environment.
We have put our business units at the heart of our planning and resourcing processes, brought our maintenance business back in house, strengthened ouroperating teams and have made three new appointments to our leadership team.
Perhaps most significantly, with the appointment of Professor Sir Tim Wilson toour Board of Directors, we now have additional senior expertise from the HigherEducation sector at a time of considerable change for UK universities.
Unite Modular Solutions UMS After a disappointing start to the year our modular construction business, UMS, scaled up production in the latter part of 2010 and has secured a number of external contracts for the year ahead, most notably in the budget hotel sector, and is reporting a healthy pipeline of other opportunities.
Overall for 2010, UMS recorded a loss of 4.8 million, of which 4.6 million arose in the first half of the year, meaning that the facility was close to break-even in the second half.
Taking into account this improved level of activity, we expect losses at UMS to narrow substantially and for the business to be marginally cash positive in 2011, although production will again be skewed to the second half of the year.
With the viability of UMSs proposition proven externally and market conditions improving, the Group intends to review its ownership stake in the business in the short to medium term.
Outlook In recent years the Group has made timely and effective improvements to its capital structure and operating platform.
These changes have contributed to a resilient performance in the recent challenging economic times and also leaves the Group well placed for sustainable growth.
UNITE has a portfolio that is well positioned for continued rental growth, a well funded and attractive development pipeline that will add significantly to earnings in future years, financial capacity to add to this pipeline and carefully considered plans to grow the business further.
2010 has been an excellent year for UNITE and as we continue to work with our partners in the sector we look forward to 2011 and beyond with confidence.
Phil White Chairman 2 March 2011 Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
