BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW | CHAIRMANS STATEMENT | 3 The core values that underpin Berkeley remain unchanged.
These are financial strength, decisions made based on deep experience and common sense and a real passion for creating homes and places of a high quality that will stand the test of time and meet the aspirations of our customers.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2009 10 has been a year of change in a number of Return on capital employed for the year was 20.1% ways.
The housing market in London and the South compared to 20.6% last time, with Berkeley holding East has stabilised, albeit at transaction levels lower 316.9 million of net cash at 30 April 2010 than we had become used to prior to the turbulent 2009: 284.8 million.
market of the previous two years.
The land market OUR PEOPLE AND BOARD CHANGES has begun to yield some attractive opportunities On 22 July 2010, Greg Fry announced his intention again and, over the course of the year, a growing to step down from the Board following the Annual sense developed that the worst is over with a return General Meeting to be held on 8 September 2010, to GDP growth.
having decided that this is the right time for him to Most recently of course we have had a change make a change.
Greg will then leave St George on 31 of Government and, quite understandably, this October.
Greg has given over 28 years of continuous has given cause for reflection as people look to service to Berkeley and St George, the last 14 years understand the impact of the spending reviews and as a Group Main Board Director.
On behalf of policies to be implemented by the new Coalition the Board, I would like to thank Greg for his truly administration.
Such reviews and changes in policy outstanding contribution to the business over are inevitable and necessary.
Most important is that this time.
hard work and innovation are rewarded and growth Berkeley has, for some time, recognised the need is encouraged.
In our own industry, this means a to put in place a long-term succession plan across continued and concerted commitment from the the Group, following a philosophy which is built private and public sector to work together to address on the strength in depth and quality of our people the shortage in supply of quality housing, and I look and based on promoting from the talent within forward to Berkeley being at the forefront of this our management teams wherever possible.
A vibrant housing market has so many therefore pleased to announce the appointment of knock-on effects on the wider economy, employment Sean Ellis to the Board as an Executive Director with and addressing social issues.
Sean has been with Berkeley What remain unchanged are the core values that since 2005 and has held a number of senior land underpin Berkeley.
These are financial strength, positions and is currently Managing Director of decisions made based on deep experience and St James.
common sense and a real passion for creating homes Following the AGM, with Seans appointment and places of a high quality that will stand the test of and Gregs decision to step down, the Board will time and meet the aspirations of our customers.
comprise a Chairman, five Executive Directors and Berkeleys strategy is to maximise shareholder value four Non-executive Directors.
As a consequence in a sustainable and safe way over the long-term.
At Berkeley will look to appoint a further Non-executive present, the Board believes that greatest value will Director to achieve the balance envisaged by the be achieved through land acquisition, investing in Combined Code.
work in progress and opportunistic share purchases, Producing such strong results once again in what as opposed to declaring a dividend.
This dividend remain challenging market conditions and receiving policy will, however, be reviewed at the end of each external recognition is tribute to the resilience, reporting period.
determination and skill of our people.
On behalf of RESULTS the Shareholders and Directors of Berkeley, I would Berkeley is pleased to announce a pre-tax profit of like to take this opportunity to thank our people and 110.3 million for the year ended 30 April 2010. recognise their exceptional efforts and achievements.
This compares to 120.4 million in the same period last year, a reduction of 8.4%.
Total equity attributable to shareholders increased by 57.3 million to 858.6 million 2009: 801.3 million in the year with net assets per share of 636.7 pence at 30 April 2010 2009: 615.4 pence, T TO ONY PID NY PIDGLEY GLEY there being 134.9 million shares in issue at 30 April 2010 2009: 130.2 million.
CHAIRMAN CHAIRMAN Summers Place, Billingshurst ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | BERKELEY
