3 3i I i In nf fr ra as st tr ru uc ct tu ur re p e pl lc c 4 4 A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d acco ccou un nt ts 2 s 20 010 10 Chairmans statement 3i Infrastructure the Company has Looking forward, the Company has continued to deliver a good return and an considerable financial resources to invest, attractive dividend yield despite a struggling with cash of 313.7 million on an investment economic recovery and volatile markets, basis at 31 March 2010 or 286.9 million proving the robustness of the portfolio net of the proposed final dividend.
assets performance, as well as the strengths The Investment Adviser continues to add of the investment advisory team.
to the pipeline of investment opportunities, and the environment for investment has In the year to 31 March 2010, the Company become more positive, with asset price achieved a total comprehensive income volatility subsiding and vendors proving attributable to equity holders of the parent, more willing to transact.
I, along with the on a consolidated IFRS basis, of 81.2 million, rest of the Board, remain confident that or 9.3% of opening shareholders equity.
3i Infrastructures financial resources will be On an investment basis, which the Board invested in assets with the appropriate yield also uses to monitor investment performance, and return characteristics.
the Company generated a total return of 82.5 million, or 9.3% on opening shareholders We view our rigorous approach to corporate equity, underpinned by a strong asset return responsibility as key to achieving our return of 93.8 million, or 17.5% of opening objectives.
The Company and the Investment portfolio value, which was diluted by the low Adviser have comprehensive procedures in We are increasingly confident interest earned on the cash balances held by place, outlined in the Corporate responsibility about the market opportunity, the Company throughout the year.
report, to ensure that our investment activity and the assets in the portfolio is carried out to the best standards.
This strong performance was made possible are generating strong returns, by the ongoing robust operational There have been a few changes to the supporting the delivery of the performance of most of our portfolio assets, composition of the Board this year.
and further confirms the resilience of the Valeur was appointed as a non-executive Peter Sedgwick infrastructure asset class in volatile conditions.
Director and a member of the Audit Chairman Average earnings before interest, tax, Committee at the end of September 2009, 5 May 2010 depreciation and amortisation in the succeeding Martin Dryden who retired portfolio rose by 11.2% compared to last from the Board following the AGM in July year, and the portfolio generated income 2009.
Peter Wagner, who had been a Board of 30.3 million in the year.
member since the Companys inception, resigned from the Board in February 2010.
On the basis of these results, the Board I would like to thank them for their significant is pleased to propose a final dividend of contribution.
3.3p per share, which, added to the interim dividend of 2.2p per share paid in December In summary, we are increasingly confident 2009, brings the total dividend for the year about the market opportunity and the assets to 5.5p per share, which is in line with the in the portfolio are generating strong returns, Companys dividend objective.
supporting the delivery of the Companys objectives.
Conditions for investment in infrastructure remained difficult for much of the past year, resulting in low transaction volumes across the market.
3i Infrastructure invested 73.4 million in the year to 31 March 2010, of which 39.1 million was a new investment in Elgin Infrastructure Limited Elgin.
The remaining balance was invested in the existing portfolio to increase the Companys holdings in assets such as AWG, the junior debt portfolio and Alpha Schools, which continue to deliver attractive returns.
The new investment in Elgin fits the Companys investment strategy, providing exposure to a relatively low-risk, cash-generative and highly attractive asset, which will contribute to the delivery of 3i Infrastructures yield objective.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 5 Investment Advisers review
