Chairmans statement The year to 30 September 2010 confirmed the view expressed in our 2009 report that the company was well positioned to benefit from improving sentiment in global markets through organic growth.
Over the course of the trading period under review we have built on the increased scale and diversity of distribution relationships, added over the previous two years, and used our strong cashflow to further strengthen the balance sheet - resulting in a 22% increase in assets under management: growth in revenues of 51%: underlying profits up by 147%: a rise in earnings per share of 110% and dividends of 17%: and an improved operating margin of 34.8%.
scope to grow this business over the Operating profit increased significantly coming years and the transaction to 221.9 million 2009: 95.7 enhances our distribution capability million, and we achieved an operating through global private banking networks.
We believe that this margin compares favourably with our international Financials peer group and we are well placed Revenue for the year of 638.2 million to improve this margin further from was 51% higher than in 2009 due to ongoing new business flows.
the combined effects of new business flows, improved market levels and We have also added further strength the inclusion of the ex-Credit Suisse to the balance sheet: we repaid all Roger Cornick Chairman business for a full year.
Performance short term bank debt during August We have, over the year, enjoyed a record fees showed a healthy increase to 30.3 and reduced the net gearing ratio to level of new business wins, primarily million but, while such income is always 0.6% 2009: 17%.
We expect our driven by strong investor demand welcome, this represents only 4.7% operating cashflow to bring us to for our global emerging market and of our total revenue and we remain a net cash position during 2011. global equities capabilities, but with focused on growing recurring income.
encouraging levels of inflows in other Results and dividend Operating expenses increased by 28%, areas - inflows of 46.6 billion were an element of which is due to the The Groups underlying profit, which 144% higher than 2009.
Whilst outflows inclusion of a full years costs from we define as profit before taxation, of lower margin funds of 44.0 billion, the ex-Credit Suisse business and exceptional items, amortisation and primarily from our core fixed income completion of the RBS transaction impairment of intangible assets, was and money market strategies, continued at the end of January.
We have also 210.0 million compared to 85.1 during 2010, the rate slowed as the implemented a controlled increase in million in 2009.
As a result, net inflows marketing expenditure as we support underlying earnings per share, on a of 2.6 billion were achieved in 2010 our business development effort: we diluted basis, of 13.3p, an increase of 2009: net outflows of 10.7 billion.
A undertook our first ever campaign 110% on last year.
After accounting for further 1.9 billion of mandates were to increase our brand recognition in exceptional items, amortisation and awarded but not funded at the year end.
the US, a market which we believe impairment, we report a pre-tax profit The acquisition of a high quality offers significant potential, and of 125.6 million 2009: 10.5 million.
alternatives business from the Royal opened a small office in Toronto The Board is recommending a final Bank of Scotland RBS in January has to facilitate the servicing of our dividend of 3.8p per share, making provided a significant entry point into growing Canadian client base.
A key a total payment for the year of this market, with the quality of the initiative in our brand building in the 7.0p per share, an increase of 17% team, process and scale of this business US was our commitment to sponsor on the total payment for 2009. creating a credible opportunity to the Dad Vail Regatta in Philadelphia The Board remains committed to diversify our new business flows yet the largest collegiate rowing event a progressive dividend policy.
We believe there is considerable in the United States until 2013.
4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 It has been another record year for our The new business flows achieved during New business equity teams who have continued to the year are set out in the table below: Gross new business for the year totalled outperform their respective benchmarks gross inflows were sourced principally 46.6 billion, 144% higher than 2009 over a number of time periods both from investors in Europe 45%, the and more than twice the previous high UK 25%, the Americas 10%, Asia long and short term.
Global and global reported in 2007.
As stated above, Pacific 14% and the Middle East 6%.
emerging market GEM equities these figures were driven principally were the main drivers of new business by demand for our global emerging Corporate activity flows supplemented by flows into markets, global equity and Asia Pacific Asia Pacific and we were pleased to products, although we have also seen On 29 January 2010, the Group be awarded our first mandate by a encouraging interest in some of our announced the acquisition of certain European pension fund into US equities other capabilities, such as emerging fund management assets and contracts during the year.
Such has been the market debt, Asian fixed income and US from Royal Bank of Scotland which equities.
Our distribution teams have demand for GEM equities that we also included a long-term distribution continued to develop the significant took the decision at the beginning of agreement with RBS Wealth new relationships we have added over the year to close to new segregated Management, including Coutts, for a the last two years, and we have made business in this asset class to assist in consideration of 84.7 million.
The good progress, especially from Europe, managing the flow of new business, transaction was funded via a placement the Middle East and the Americas.
principally into our pooled funds.
Our of new Aberdeen shares and brought UK and Pan European equities continue an enhanced alternatives capability Our fixed income teams had a much and approximately 60 staff into the to deliver good performance over one better year as credit spreads recovered Group.
The transaction completed on 29 and three year time frames and we and the strong rebound in performance January 2010 and added approximately are hopeful that we may see appetite has continued throughout 2010: our 13.5 billion to assets under for these products in due course.
one year and two year numbers are management AuM during the year.
strongly ahead of benchmark and Following the acquisition from RBS, the improvement is now feeding our Alternative Investment Strategies Business development into our three year figures.
We still asset class now encompasses a broad experienced redemptions as investors Our distribution efforts continued range of capabilities including a large have considered their appetite for to make progress on a number of multi-manager and hedge fund of funds risk.
Fixed income performance products globally.
In July we took over business and has critical mass within has recovered strongly but further the management of four US mutual the industry.
Performance has been outflows are still likely.
A common funds, previously managed by Bank of encouraging across the core products.
theme across the industry has been Hawaii, with assets of $450 million In the first half of the year we raised withdrawals from money market funds which have now been merged into 110 million for a new UCITS fund as investor risk appetite has returned our existing mutual fund range.
of absolute return funds, which has and we experienced some outflows since grown to over 200 million.
We successfully raised over 50 million earlier in the year, although this has for the Aberdeen Latin American Income stabilised somewhat in recent months.
Following a period of considerable Fund, a UK-listed closed end fund which turbulence, property markets have We were awarded our first segregated invests in Latin American equities and stabilised somewhat and investor mandate in Asian fixed income during debt with the objective of providing an appetite has begun to return, which the year, contributing to record flows above average yield.
We also launched has led to a number of new mandates of over 500 million into this product a local currency emerging market debt being awarded particularly in the UK.
and the quality of our capability in fund which has grown steadily and our However, in Germany, the property this area was endorsed at the Global efforts within alternatives are currently sector remains difficult and we Investor Awards for excellence in focused on active promotion of our recently announced the controlled institutional asset management where multi-manager product.
The opening liquidation of the DEGI Europa Fund.
Aberdeen won the award for best Asia of two new offices during the year, in The major project to integrate the Pacific fixed income manager.
We Sao Paulo and Toronto, will enable us property business fully within the continue to see considerable investor to deepen our research capability and wider Group has proceeded according appetite for this asset class and for build on distribution opportunities.
to plan and will be fully completed emerging market debt which has by the end of the calendar year.
enjoyed net inflows of 300 million this year and high yield bonds: all strategies in which we can demonstrate robust long term performance.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Funded Yet to fund Total bn bn bn Equities: Gross inflows 23.0 1.1 24.1 Outflows 9.2 9.2 Net flow 13.8 1.1 14.9 Fixed income: Gross inflows 8.6 0.5 9.1 Outflows 19.5 19.5 Net flow 10.9 0.5 10.4 Alternative investment strategies: Gross inflows 6.5 6.5 Outflows 4.3 4.3 Net flow 2.2 2.2 Property: Gross inflows 2.3 0.3 2.6 Outflows 1.7 1.7 Net flow 0.6 0.3 0.9 Money market: Gross inflows 6.2 6.2 Outflows 9.3 9.3 Net flow 3.1 3.1 Group total: Gross inflows 46.6 1.9 48.5 Outflows 44.0 44.0 Net flow 2.6 1.9 4.5 be a great benefit to the Board over investment performance should lead to Outlook the coming years.
Finally, I would growing benefits to shareholders over During the course of 2010 we have like to pass on the Boards thanks to the years ahead.
experienced a period of corporate Donald Waters who, following ten years stability enabling the prior acquisitional valuable service, will retire following activity of Aberdeen to stabilise the AGM.
and provide a platform for steady organic growth.
This has delivered Looking ahead, while we are conscious rewarding levels of new business, of the risk of further market volatility, Roger C Cornick helped by improved markets, leading we plan to grow further the Groups Chairman to increased revenues and improved revenues and profits by remaining operating margins.
I would like to focussed on the management and thank all our staff for their continued distribution of the wide range of hard work and support and welcome investment activity that we have our new employees to the Group.
developed over the course of the last I would especially like to thank my five years.
Providing that we are able fellow Board members for their strong to sustain current progress we aim to contributions over this reporting period use improving cashflow to strengthen and to welcome Jim Pettigrew as a the balance sheet still further, and new director.
Jim brings considerable believe the Groups improved financial experience and knowledge of the global strength and diversified product asset management industry that will and client base, coupled with robust 6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
