77089 ASCOT TxtV9 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 26 01 2011 15:23 Page 4 Chairmans Statement Review of 2010 Performance 2010 has been another good year for UK equities.
The FTSE 100 gave a total return including reinvested dividends of 12.6%, while the FTSE All-Share returned 14.5% and the FTSE SmallCap total return index excluding investment companies rose 16.9%.
The return on your Companys shares, with dividends reinvested, was 22.8%, while your Companys net asset value total return was 26.6%.
This was surpassed by the performance of your Companys investment benchmark, the RBS Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index excluding investment companies RBS HGSC XIC which gave a return of 28.5%.
The Managers Report below provides further information on the current years performance, including the reasons for the underperformance against benchmark.
It also provides Shareholders with greater insight into what has undoubtedly been an extremely frustrating five year period for relative performance, particularly when set against the longer term returns.
Continuation Vote In viewing the table on page 18, your Board is acutely conscious of the disappointing five year numbers sitting alongside the excellent long term numbers.
It is against this backdrop that your Board has carefully considered its recommendation ahead of the three yearly continuation vote in March 2011.
In addition to the Shareholder meetings undertaken by the Managers, your Board has sought, and received, feedback from Shareholders.
As a Board, we strongly believe that the Companys long term performance has benefited from the management features offered by Aberforth Partners.
Wholly owned by its partners, Aberforth Partners continues to specialise solely in investment in small UK quoted companies.
The experienced investment personnel are also significant investors in your Company and have delivered a level of continuity few in the broader investment trust sector can rival.
Aberforth Partners also brings with it a consistent investment approach around the value investing style.
These are truly torrid times for value investing.
As the Managers Report demonstrates in greater detail, value investing within the UK, and especially the UK smaller companies sector, has never been so out of favour over your Companys history.
Not only is the value style performing as poorly as it did during the TMT millennium bubble, but it has done so for a longer period than was the case back then.
Investment styles wax and wane but there can be little doubt that growth and in most years momentum have truly held the upper hand over the past five years.
Indeed, the experience in 2010 would suggest that this trend is intensifying.
However, as any stockmarket investor is acutely aware, no investment style continues unchecked indefinitely.
As value investors, we believe that eventually, true value will out.
And certainly, for patient investors, the smaller companies value style segment has outperformed all others over the longer run.
Your Board believes that investment style has been the overwhelming influence behind your Companys underperformance against the benchmark.
But, during such a difficult period for value investing, it was almost inevitable that a perfect storm might arrive.
It did so in the shape of the exceptional benchmark index rebalancing in 2009.
Last years Annual Report covered in detail the impact of the 40 Fallen Stars that entered the RBS HGSC benchmark at the start of 2009.
These were once-large companies characterised by high levels of debt and sizeable pension deficits.
Had economic recovery been delayed, many of them would likely not have survived.
Nevertheless, when the market recovered sharply in 2009, these high risk companies performed extremely well, and the Companys exposure to them was limited.
While this was detrimental to relative capital performance, many of these companies went on to make dividend cuts.
Suffice it to say that the Company has a much rosier outlook with regard to future growth in dividends to Shareholders.
Your Companys policy is to hold a continuation vote every three years.
Since the last vote three years ago, your Companys net asset value return has underperformed its benchmark.
However, on the brighter side, it is worth noting that over this same period, the net asset value return has exceeded the total return on the FTSE All-Share index and has been appreciably larger than the return on the FTSE SmallCap XIC index.
Furthermore, the return to investors, as measured by your Companys share price return, with dividends reinvested, very nearly matched the return on the RBS HGSC index.
Under-performance is never an enjoyable experience but, in reviewing the past three and five years, the Directors have carried out extensive analysis, and have a comprehensive understanding of the factors behind the numbers.
They have spent much time reviewing the investment process with the Managers, and continue to have full confidence in the professionalism of Aberforth Partners.
As the Managers Report highlights, the portfolio is well populated with soundly financed companies selling on attractive valuations.
Your Company is a large, liquid trust, following a consistent value style, with outstanding long run performance.
It occupies an important place in the market and in the opportunity set available to investors.
As a consequence, your Board recommends that Shareholders vote in favour of your Companys continuation.
Your Directors intend to do so in respect of their aggregate beneficial holdings of 135,425 Ordinary Shares.
Dividends Alas, your Board is neither able, nor nave enough, to attempt to call the shift in investment styles, but perhaps the improvement we are seeing in dividends from the companies in the portfolio offers some cause for optimism.
4 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 26 01 2011 15:23 Page 5 Chairmans Statement Your Board is pleased to declare a second interim dividend, in effect a final dividend, of 13p per share.
This results in total dividends for the year of 19p which is the same as last year.
In last years Chairmans Statement, my predecessor cautiously forecast that investment income from the portfolio might witness a further modest decline during 2010.
Encouragingly, investment income has surprised on the upside, growing by a healthy 7.4%.
Earnings per share for the year were 18.1p, considerably higher than had been anticipated at the beginning of the year, thereby resulting in a minimal 0.9p per share draw on revenue reserves to maintain the current dividend.
The Managers Report provides Shareholders with greater detail on what has been an excellent year for dividends.
Your Board has always emphasised the importance of the income element of the total return from equities over the long term.
Your Companys dividend per share has increased on average by 8.2% p. a. and 7.9% p. a. over the past ten and twenty years respectively, and has been a key component in delivering the long term record.
As we enter 2011, I am optimistic about your Boards ability to resume this record of increasing the dividend paid to Shareholders.
Gearing As you are aware, it has been your Companys policy to use gearing in a tactical manner during its twenty year history.
The current gearing was put in place progressively from mid-2008 and has thus far been beneficial to Shareholders.
As at 31 December 2010, your Company was utilising 52 million of the 75 million facility provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
As the Managers Report covers in more detail, the current valuation levels are supportive of the maintenance of a geared position.
Your Board and Managers are already in discussion regarding the replacement or rollover of the existing facility in July 2011.
I hope that the improvement we have seen in the financial sector will be reflected in the terms of our new facility.
We have already seen some evidence of this through improved terms that the Managers have agreed with the lender for the existing facility.
This facility, which represents 10.5% of Shareholders funds, provides the Company with access to liquidity for investment purposes and also to fund share buy-ins as and when appropriate.
Share Buy-In Authority and Treasury Shares At the Annual General Meeting in March 2010, the authority to buy-in up to 14.99% of your Companys Ordinary Shares was approved.
During the year, 500,208 Ordinary Shares have been bought-in at a total cost of 2.746 million.
Consistent with your Boards stated policy, those Ordinary Shares have been cancelled rather than held in treasury.
Once again, your Board will be seeking to renew the buy-in authority at the Annual General Meeting on 2 March 2011.
The Board keeps under constant review the circumstances under which the authority is utilised in relation to the overall objective of seeking to sustain a low discount.
Board Changes Marco Chiappelli, who has been a Director for over nine years, will not be standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
We are extremely grateful to Marco for his sound advice and wise counsel, and for his outstanding contribution as Chairman of the Audit Committee for the last seven years.
David Jeffcoat succeeds Marco as Chairman of the Committee.
We wish Marco all the very best for the future.
Conclusion 2010 has seen a continuing recovery in the share prices of UK smaller companies from the depths of the fourth quarter of 2008.
While bad news over-populates the nations media, there is undoubtedly a good news story to be told about corporates.
UK equity investors are enjoying the fruits of that as the Managers highlight in their report.
Small UK quoted companies are very much part of that story.
A strong financial position, coupled with the diligent management of costs during recent years, is allowing them to reward shareholders through rising dividends as the business cycle slowly recovers from the global financial crisis.
The prospects of rising dividends from investee companies and hence for our own Shareholders will hopefully herald a return in the market to a focus on value, which in turn will lead to an improvement in your Companys relative performance.
In this regard the outperformance versus the benchmark in the second half of 2010 is an encouraging first step.
Your Board remains confident that the Managers experience will continue to benefit your Company over the long term.
Professor Paul Marsh Chairman 26 January 2011 5 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 77089 ASCOT TxtV9 26 01 2011 15:23 Page 6 Aberforth Partners LLP Information Aberforth Partners LLP the firm act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company.
The predecessor business, Aberforth Partners, was established in 1990 to provide institutional and wholesale investors with a high level of resources focused exclusively on small UK quoted companies.
Since then funds under management have grown to 1.7 billion as at 31 December 2010.
The firm is wholly owned by seven partners six investment managers including four founding partners, and Alan Waite, who is responsible for the firms administration.
The six investment managers work as a team managing the Companys portfolio on a collegiate basis.
The founding partners have been managing the portfolio since the Companys inception in December 1990.
The partners each have a personal investment in the Company.
The biographical details of the investment managers are as follows: Andrew P Bamford 44 BCom Hons, CA Andy joined Aberforth Partners in April 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Health Care Equipment & Services: Industrial Transportation: Technology Hardware & Equipment: Travel & Leisure: and a proportion of Support Services.
Previously he was with Edinburgh Fund Managers for 7 years, latterly as Deputy Head of UK Small Companies, with specific responsibility for institutional clients.
Prior to joining Edinburgh Fund Managers he was a senior investment analyst with General Accident for 2 years supporting the head of UK Smaller Companies.
Before joining General Accident, he was a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
John M Evans 53 MA Hons John was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Automobiles & Parts: Chemicals: Construction & Materials: Household Goods & Home Construction: Leisure Goods: Personal Goods: Fixed Line Telecom: Electricity: Gas and Water & Multiutilities.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where he was latterly responsible for the management of portfolios whose objectives were income and capital growth from UK equities.
Euan R Macdonald 40 BA Hons Euan joined Aberforth Partners in May 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Industrial Engineering: Software & Computer Services: and a proportion of Support Services.
Previously he was with Baillie Gifford for 10 years where he managed portfolios invested in small companies both in Continental Europe and in the UK.
Richard M J Newbery 51 BA Hons Richard was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Alternative Energy: Beverages: Electronic & Electrical Equipment: Food & Drug Retailers: Food Producers: Forestry & Paper: General Industrials: and General Retailers.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 9 years where he managed international portfolios for a range of clients including those with a small company specialisation.
David T M Ross 61 FCCA David was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Nonlife Insurance: Life Assurance: Real Estate Investment & Services: Real Estate Investment Trusts: and Financial Services.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 22 years, the last two of which were as Managing Director.
He was a Director of US Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc and served as a member of the Executive Committee of the Association of Investment Companies.
Alistair J Whyte 47 Alistair was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Aerospace & Defence: Industrial Metals & Mining: Media: Mining: Oil & Gas Producers: Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution: and Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where latterly he managed portfolios in Asia.
Prior to that he managed portfolios with the objective of capital growth from smaller companies in the UK and internationally.
Further information on Aberforth Partners LLP and its clients is available on its website www.
