Big Weekend Welsh Rugby Admiral has sponsored the Cardiff Big Weekend Admiral Group are delighted to since 2004.
Last year 260,000 people enjoyed sponsor the Welsh Rugby Union the three day event.
strip for the next three years.
In the UK, Admirals strength in price comparison The UK Price Comparison market continued and signifi cantly better than market average intensely competitive during 2010 with very high combined ratio again gave us the fl exibility to levels of media activity from the four key players.
achieve material growth in both market share and Both turnover and profi tability for Confused were average premium.
With a 32% growth in vehicle consequently markedly down on 2009.
In contrast, count during 2010 to some 2.5 million vehicles Rastreator, our aggregator in Spain, achieved very covered by Admiral brands we estimate that we are good growth in the year.
now one of the top three UK private motor insurers, The strength of our advance in UK Car Insurance holding around 10% of the UK market.
UK Car drove our Group result for 2010, pre-tax profi ts at Insurance profi ts rose 33% to 276 million.
266 million being 23% ahead of the previous year.
Our expansion overseas also made considerable Admirals capital-light business model, transferring progress during 2010.
Two days before Christmas saw a signifi cant proportion of our underwriting risk to the launch of LOlivier, Admirals new car insurance reinsurance partners, allows the majority of our brand in France, following that of LeLynx.
fr, our earnings to be distributed as dividends.
This year French price comparison business, early in 2010. we will distribute 94% of post-tax earnings, our full We now have this complementary dual presence year dividends amounting to 68.1 pence per share, of motor insurer and price comparison website 18% up on our declaration for 2009.
Our normal in 4out of our 5 chosen markets.
We have found dividend, growing in line with our growth in profi ts that the price comparison launch helps stimulate based on a 45% pay-out ratio, amounted to 32.4 growth in what are often immature price comparison pence per share, whilst our available surplus, after markets to the benefi t of the direct operation, taking into account our required solvency, provision while the direct operation provides a willing partner for our overseas expansion plans, and a margin for in markets where some players are resistant to the, in contingencies, made possible a special dividend of our view inevitable, emergence of price comparison.
We have paid such a special dividend as part of every distribution we have Admirals Non-UK Car Insurance turnover increased made since becoming a public company in total by 64% over 2009.
ConTe in Italy advanced strongly, 398 million, 52% of overall dividends.
whilst in Spain, Balumba had 40% more customers by the year-end, despite diffi cult trading conditions.
We recognise that Admiral now represents a 2010 was our fi first full year in the US with Elephant signifi cant part of the communities in Wales where Auto and, as such, was a year of building capability we are based.
We identify closely with these and learning how best to position ourselves in this communities and are delighted to sponsor the new market.
At the end of the year we announced Welsh Rugby Union strip for the next three years.
the sale of our German insurance business, We continue to encourage our staff, wherever they AdmiralDirekt.
We have made no secret of the fact are working, to play an active part in their local that we have found the German market the most community and Admiral provides fi financial support diffi cult of those entered under our international to not-for-profi t groups in which staff are involved.
expansion strategy and there was not, in our view, In 2010 we sponsored organisations and activities an early prospect of further investment delivering as diverse as the Alzheimers Society Swansea, the required return for our shareholders.
the National Theatre of Wales, and the Cardiff Mardi Gras.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 05 Chairmans statement continued Movember Swansea Bay 10k Staff at Admirals offi ce in Halifax, Canada Admiral has sponsored the Swansea Bay 10k took part in the Movember fundraising road race for four years.
235 members of staff event for prostate cancer.
Colleagues have taken part in the race, raising money for in the UK operations also grew moustaches.
Each year we undertake an appraisal of the working The review also underlined the importance of the of the Board and the Board Committees, and of my Board increasing its exposure to senior managers effectiveness as Chairman, and seek to identify how across the Group in order to assist the Boards we can improve our Board process and its assessment of the bench strength available to effectiveness in setting, and having oversight of the support the broader executive succession planning implementation of, the Groups strategy.
Every and the Groups continued expansion.
Whilst the three years, of which 2010 was one such, this takes straightforward nature of our business, being a the form of an external review of our effectiveness.
monoline direct private motor insurer, means that Whilst the overall conclusion was that the Board has SolvencyII is less complex for Admiral than for continued to work very effectively in relation to more broadly-based competitors, we recognise the most dimensions the review also identifi ed clear need to increase our depth in risk management areas of focus.
In particular we recognise that to ensure that the models supporting SolvencyII several of our Non-Executive Directors are due to are appropriately embedded in our business.
reach their maximum term in the next four years I am often asked what is the principal reason for necessitating an effective process of succession Admirals success: the answer is a simple one our planning leading to the recruitment of new people, embracing our Board, our executive team, directors with generous overlap to maintain our management, and our staff in all roles and continuity of knowledge and Board dynamics.
It is they who develop the I am, therefore, delighted that Colin Holmes, until business models, have the creative intuition, and recently Tescos UK Commercial Director for Fresh design and implement the processes that, when Foods and a member of Tescos Group Executive taken all together, engender success.
To all our Committee, has accepted our invitation to join the people my thanks on behalf of the Board for Board and provide succession to the role of Audit another very successful year.
Chair when, in due course, Martin Jackson Thank you!
Colin already has Non-Executive experience having been a member of the Board of Bovis Homes since 2006.
Alastair Lyons, CBE Chairman 1 March 2011 Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 06 Performance Performance In this section: 07 Chief Executives statement 10 Business review 10 Group fi financial review 11 UK Car Insurance 15 UK Car Insurance market review 16 Non-UK Car Insurance 21 Price Comparison 23 Confused.
com review 24 Other Group items 27 Principal risks and uncertainties
