Business review 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chairmans statement BGGroup benefits from a portfolio of development opportunities out to 2020 that is among the most attractive in the industry.
The environmental benefits of natural gas asareplacement for higher-carbon fossil fuelsarewell understood.
It seems likely that in certain key markets, governmental policies favouring gas for its lower-carbon and urban air quality advantages will further strengthen the growth in global gas demand over the decade ahead.
During the year, there was continued divergence between international benchmark oil prices and gas prices, with the latter remaining well below their 2008 peak.
Inthatcontext, it is important to note that, whilegas is central to BGGroups portfolio, theGroups exposure tooil prices will increase considerably.
In the very large Asian energy markets where BGGroup has a growing presence, the linkage between gas prices and international benchmark oil prices is already anestablished norm.
Additionally, Brazilian oilsales will make an increasingly significant Sir Robert Wilson Chairman contribution to Group revenues as development There were a number of notable strategic achievements progresses over the coming years.
Further during the year which are expected to underpin BGGroups details are set out in the Business environment growth agenda over the decade ahead.
and outlook section on pages 18 and 19.
Discussion of the oil and gas industry in 2010 must necessarily refer to the blow-out on the BP Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico.
BGGroup performed well in 2010 despite gas joint ventures in the USA.
TheBoard also BGGroup has established a dedicated team to mixedtrading conditions as the mature approved the final investment decision to begin study investigation findings and to review the economies of the developed world began a construction of the Queensland Curtis Liquefied Groups own operations, enhancing practices, gradual return from recession.
Total operating Natural Gas QCLNG Project in Australia.
where applicable, to reflect lessons learnt.
The profit of $6925 million 2009 $6 330 million Chief Executives statement on pages 10 and 11 was 9% higher year-on-year, and earnings Market and industry context provides an overview of the Groups focus on pershare were 18% higher at 118.7 cents 2010 proved to be another difficult year for safety as its utmost priority.
The Board has again most developed economies.
In contrast, some increased thefull-year dividend, up 10% to markets in the developing world, particularly Portfolio designed to create 21.60cents per share 200919.63 cents per inAsia and South America, have entered the outstandingvalue share.
Further details of the Groups financial new decade with strong momentum and In recent years, BG Group has focused on performance are set out in the Financial review.
BGGroup is well-placed to benefit reshaping its global portfolio to maximise the There were a number of notable strategic from that momentum, with plans to expand potential for shareholder value creation over achievements during the year which are itsliquefied natural gas LNG portfolio to the decade ahead.
The resulting strengthened expected to underpin BGGroups growth agenda meetrapidly growing Asian gas demand and rebalanced portfolio contains a range of over the decade ahead.
There was rapid progress particularly in China while participating in development opportunities stretching out in the development of the Groups interests in thedevelopment of the resources that are key to2020 that is among the most attractive in the Santos Basin, offshore Brazil, andin its shale to the realisation of Brazils national ambitions.
For a reconciliation between business performance and totalresults, see note 2 on page 91 and note 10 on page 106. www.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 9 Dividend per share 21.60 cents 10% 2009 19.63 cents The Groups business now combines low-cost always done this: our Governance report can he leaves the Board with our gratitude and and long-life production assets in countries be found on pages 50 to 57. best wishes for the future.
Finally, I would like where it is a long-established investor, to welcome Fabio Barbosa to BGGroup, who together with the development of ventures The Group continues to seek ways to enhance has been appointed to the Board as Chief offering excellent exposure to new resources the quality of reporting to shareholders.
Online Financial Officer, effective 31 March 2011. and access to emerging markets.
communications offer significant advantages in this respect, and I would again encourage The future There was significant progress with three everyone to take advantage of the Groups Over the next few years, BGGroup will be ofthe most material of those new ventures web-based reporting services whenever making very large investments in offshore Brazil, during the period under review.
In Brazil, the possible rather than choose to receive printed in coal seam gas to LNG in Australia, and in shale first permanent production facilities on the copies of the Annual Report and Accounts.
gas developments in the USA.
These projects Lula field formerly known as Tupi came will lead to a profound change in the nature, onstream, just four years after the first Shareholders will also note that the Groups geographic spread and scale of theGroups discovery well in the Santos Basin.
Less than financial performance is now reported in business.
For example, unconventional gas three years after BGGroups first investment in USDollars.
This change to the Groups resources such as those in Australia and the Australia, construction is now underway on the reporting currency, first announced in 2009, USA played no role in the portfolio three years world-class QCLNG Project.
Finally, less than reflects the fact that the large majority of the ago, but are expected to account for around a two years after its first investment, the Group Groups revenues are USDollar-denominated, quarter of production by the end of the decade.
now has total US shale gas resources of more and will also aid comparisons with peers.
than 1.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent, located However, dividend payments to shareholders Taken together, these developments offer at the heart of the worlds largest gas market.
will continue to be paid in Pound Sterling, great opportunity for this evolving business.
Further details are set out under Key business which will also remain the currency ofthe The capital expenditure demands, at around developments on pages 14 and 15.
$21billion over the next two years, are obviously substantial and are expected to There was good progress elsewhere in the The Board leadto an increase in BGGroups gearing level, portfolio, including UK government approval There were a number of changes to the Board with an anticipated peak in 2013 or 2014 for the development of the Jasmine field, and during the period under review.
Caio Koch-Weser followed by decline thereafter.
I would add, BGGroup extended further itsstrong track was appointed to the Board in November and however, that theGroup expects its strong record in exploration with encouraging early Patrick Thomas was appointed in December.
cash flow growth and robust balance sheet indications from wells drilled offshore Iwould like to welcome both to the Board.
tosupport the funding of both the capital Tanzania and China.
I would also add that Jrgen Dormann retired from the Board on expenditure programme and futuredividends.
BGGroups operations in North Africa have 31December 2010, and Mark Seligman was notbeen materially affected by political appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee The success of BGGroup during the last decade events in that region to date, although the in December, succeeding Lord Sharman.
I would is the consequence of the skills and efforts of Group will continue to monitordevelopments like to thank Jrgen Dormann for his contribution the people in theGroup.
I thank them for their carefully.
For an overview of theGroups to the Group.
Exploration andProduction E&P and LNG performance, seepages 20 to 26.
Lord Sharman has advised us that he does not intend to stand for re-election at the Annual Governance and shareholder General Meeting in May 2011.
He has been a communications Director of BGGroup for 11 years and served The revisions to the UK Combined Code now formost of that time as Chairman ofthe Audit Sir Robert Wilson called the UK Corporate Governance Code the Committee.
We have greatly benefited from Chairman Code are intended to stimulate a greater hisimportant contribution.
degree of shareholder participation, as well as encourage greater transparency in corporate On 31 March 2011, BG Group Chief Financial reporting.
The Code also calls for company Officer Ashley Almanza will stand down from chairmen to report directly to shareholders the Board.
Ashley has played a significant role on governance matters.
In fact, BGGroup has in developing BGGroup since its inception and BG Group www.
