2 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Chairmans Statement Lesley Knox In my statement 12 months ago, I reflected on the benefits of the Alliance Trusts long-term investment view for our shareholders.
This gave us the confidence to weight the portfolio towards defensive stocks and cash at a time when others, with greater exposure to financial and cyclical stocks, Share price of the suffered through the worst of the downturn.
While some of the stocks which fell so dramatically during that period have Trust rose by benefited from a recovery in the current year we continue to follow our philosophy of investing in those companies which generate long-term shareholder value through financial strength and experienced management teams.
16.8% Investment performance Over the financial year just ended, the Net Asset Value of the Trust rose by 19.2% while the share price rose by 16.8% Peer Group ranking ending the year at 313p.
This placed us below the median over two years of our investment trust peer group during a year of volatile markets.
However, on a longer view, over the past two years during which the most dramatic market swings have played out, our performance ranks us above average against our 11 37 investment trust peer group, both in terms of Net Asset Value and Total Shareholder Return.
We report on the performance of the Trust in terms of Total Shareholder Return compared to our peer group.
This Total dividend for allows investors to judge our performance against other the year rose by investments trusts, but, unlike many of our competitors, we do not have a fixed benchmark.
We consider this to be an important distinction because it gives us the scope to invest decisively, taking advantage of the in-depth research of 1.9% companies undertaken by our portfolio managers in stock selection and the experience of our Economic Research Centre which guide our asset allocation among global markets.
It also allows us to protect shareholder value by moving into cash in periods of severe market downturn.
Dividend We recognise the importance of a progressive dividend to investors and this has continued into its 43rd consecutive year.
We have declared an increased fourth interim dividend of 2.075p per share, payable out of strong earnings, making a total dividend for the year of 8.15p per share 2009: 8.0p, excluding the special dividend of 0.5p paid in July 2009.
We took the decision to make this payment earlier than our normal practice, a decision which we believe to be in our shareholders interests.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 3 Globally, a large number of companies cut their dividends AIFM Directive in 2009.
Looking forward, the economic background The Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM directive remains fragile and company prospects in 2010 remain emerged from the European Union in response to the uncertain.
We shall, however, continue to manage the perceived role of hedge funds in the financial crisis.
Some portfolio with an aim of producing both long-term capital elements of this directive threatened the future of the growth and a progressive dividend.
We have one of the whole investment trust sector.
We have been active in highest yields of the larger trusts which fall within our peer lobbying at both UK and EU levels for investment trusts to group, and our decision to increase our reserves during the be excluded altogether or, as a minimum, for the directive year differentiates us from other investment trusts which to be amended to take account of the distinctive nature of have used their reserves to maintain their dividends.
This work continues, and I am grateful to those shareholders who have heeded our request to make Share buybacks their concerns known directly to their MPs and MEPs.
The During the year we bought back our own shares for the final directive is not likely to be issued before summer 2010. first time.
When we took the power from shareholders to undertake buybacks in 2006, we were clear that we Board changes would use this power where the Board judged it to be in Since the publication of our last Annual Report there have the interests of all shareholders to do so.
An opportunity been two additions to the Board of the Trust.
We appointed to purchase a significant holding emerged in October.
We Robert Burgess to the Board as Chief Executive of Alliance concluded, following rigorous consideration of the merits of Trust Savings in September 2009, both to reflect the the transaction from an investment perspective, and taking significant contribution he has made to the development into account both market conditions and our own investment of that subsidiary, and to take advantage of his skills process, that the criteria which we had previously determined and experience in the wider activities of the Trust.
We shall use the same criteria to decide whether recently, Alan Trotter joined the Board as Finance Director to make buybacks from time to time in the future.
This on 1 February 2010, bringing with him extensive experience should not be confused with adoption of a discount control in the financial services sector.
I am delighted to welcome mechanism which we do not support.
We believe that our them both.
focus should be on improving the long-term performance of the Trust and that this is the priority for our shareholders.
George Stout Shareholders The Board was saddened to learn of the death of George Stout during the year.
George Stout was joint Managing One of the distinctive features of investment trusts is the Director of Alliance Trust from 1976 to 1987 and led the preponderance of individual, rather than institutional, Company during a period of significant progress.
This reflects their suitability as an investment vehicle which offers access to a diversified equity portfolio at Annual General Meeting relatively low cost.
In the case of Alliance Trust, over 26,000 clients of our financial services subsidiary Alliance Trust Our Annual General Meeting will be held in Dundee on Savings hold shares in the Company, representing 21% of Friday 21 May.
I always look forward to this opportunity our share capital, an increase from 20% at the start of the to hear the views and concerns of our shareholders and year.
Through regular savings plans and reinvestment of to provide an update on the progress of the Trust.
I hope dividends these clients stimulate demand for the Companys that as many of you as possible will spare the time to come shares.
Many more individual investors hold shares in and meet the Board and management team to whom you the Company, either directly or through savings plans entrust your investments.
