16 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Chairmans statement Positive performance During 2010 we continued to expand t he scope of our business, both organically and through acquisition.
We also further strengthened our operational capability in order to position the Group for future growth when market conditions allow.
Roger Taylor Chairman Results and dividend Amlin Corporate Insurance ACI, was the subject derived from becoming part of the Amlin Group.
of concentrated attention in every aspect of its Similarly, our brand was an important factor for 2010 was a year with both substantial catastrophe activities and, while the 2010 performance was the management team of Amlin Re Europe in claims and a high incidence of large risk losses.
disappointing, we remain confident that it is on the positive response received from brokers Pre-tax profits of 259.2 million, with a return course to meet our performance targets.
on equity of 13.9%, were as a consequence lower than in 2009.
Earthquakes in Chile and During 2010 we established a reinsurance Outlook New Zealand accounted for just over 200 million business in Switzerland by re-domiciling Amlin As anticipated, we experienced increased of catastrophe claims, while storms in Europe and Bermuda to Zurich and recruiting a team of competition across most markets which were floods in Australia, together with the Deepwater reinsurance specialists to create a new business unaffected by major losses in 2010.
Amlins Horizon oil spill added to the incremental level division which trades as Amlin Re Europe.
We selective approach to underwriting enabled us to of claims.
were pleased to welcome our new colleagues maintain satisfactory margins across much of the in Amlin Re Europe and delighted that they Protecting and serving our policyholders is our portfolio.
In some market sectors, most notably exceeded their challenging budget for business business.
We also strive to manage the business the UK fleet motor market, we saw an improving attaching on 1 January 2011.
Our team in in a manner that produces excellent cross cycle trend.
Following the severe winter weather and Bermuda collaborated in this restructuring but returns for shareholders.
Two features stand consequent claims impact on major UK insurers, remain based in Hamilton where they continue out in the 2010 result.
Firstly, the underlying a more widespread upturn in the UK commercial to run a very successful division for Amlin.
performance of most of Amlins portfolios market may be drawing closer.
Amlin UK is was satisfactory.
Secondly, the diversity of our In addition to these developments, our two extremely well positioned to take advantage reinsurance portfolio meant that the reinsurance UK-based operations, Amlin London and of this upturn when it arises.
account as a whole was profitable in 2010, Amlin UK, maintained their focus on business despite the international earthquakeclaims.
Amlins long term performance has been built on development with real success, strengthening links with brokers, bringing in new teams and underwriting discipline when trading conditions The Board is proposing a final dividend of 15.8 acquiring additional portfolios.
Enhancing the offer limited returns, combined with opportunism pence per share 2009 second interim dividend performance of our established platforms is when there is scope for profitable growth.
With 13.5p, making total dividends declared for the as important as developing new opportunities.
established operations in the UK, Bermuda and year of 23.0 pence per share, a 15.0% increase Continental Europe, together with the newly over 2009.
The final dividend will be paid on In terms of supporting our strategy, we have created Swiss business, Amlin now has more 19 May 2011, subject to shareholder approval, to remained focused on enhanced reporting of platforms from which to grow than ever before.
shareholders on the register on 25 March 2011. risk across the organisation, to enable us to There is a real momentum throughout Amlin to make progress towards meeting Solvency II Steadily growing the dividend, as illustrated again develop and enhance our business and a strong requirements.
This is a major project for the this year, remains our goal.
However, we also capital base to support rapid expansion when Group which continues to have the full remain committed to the active management market conditions are favourable.
support and engagement of the Board.
of capital and the Board has authorised up to 75 million of share buy backs.
As always the level of catastrophe claims activity As we prepare for future growth, the value of will influence financial performance.
Tragically, 2011 the Amlin brand is becoming more apparent.
Strategic progress has started with another major New Zealand It is a key asset to the business, founded on our earthquake, which this time has led to significant During 2010 we continued to focus on the core values, the quality of our people and our delivery of our strategic vision through the loss of life.
Following so quickly after the consistent performance.
The strength of our September 2010 event, it will take a period expansion of the platforms from which Amlin brand is reflected in the competitive advantage operates, which we believe will support significant of time before the full financial effect of the Anglo French Underwriters now Amlin France, growth once trading conditions are favourable.
ACI and other recent smaller acquisitions have Christchurch damage can be assessed.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Overview Chairmans statement 17 Return on equity Dividend Total shareholder return Committed to governance The Board believes that high standards 13.9% 23.0p 205% of corporate governance are intrinsic 2009: 20.0 pence 2009: 337% 2009: 37.0% to Amlins culture and values.
Our commitment to high standards of conduct is highlighted in the Corporate Governance section.
More information: page 60 Governance and the Board helped complete the transition of underwriting leadership to the next generation.
For that Amlin continues to strive for excellence in reason it is particularly fitting that Simon Beale, corporate governance.
We have a strong the Underwriting Director of Amlin London, is culture of accountability, which is reflected being proposed to be elected as a Director at the throughout the organisation in the serious forthcoming AGM in May.
way that we operate executive processes and subsidiary boards.
The Board has focused, not The Amlin team only on the increasingly complex regulatory Amlins Vision is to be the global reference point for environment and on challenging and encouraging quality in each of our markets, and our people are executive management, but also on strategy crucial to attaining this goal.
A pleasing recognition development and the integration of recent of Amlins long term investment in training and acquisitions.
Alongside the work on Solvency II, development and of the professionalism of our the Boards consideration of risk and solvency people was the granting to Amlin of Chartered has progressively deepened over the last couple of years, with a Board-level Risk and Insurer status during 2010, the first time this recognition has been awarded to a London Market Solvency Committee, separating out some of insurer.
The range of skills and expertise required the Audit Committees responsibilities, having been established with effect from 1 January of to deliver a first class service to clients is wider than ever before and we remain committed to ensuring this year.
I am pleased that Richard Davey, an independent non-executive, has agreed to chair that our people are well equipped to meet client the new committee.
The Board was active in the debate leading Rod Dampier, Head of Aviation for Amlin London up to the adoption of the new UK Corporate and a director of Amlin Underwriting Limited, Governance Code, with which we intend fully to who has been with Amlin since 1997, will be comply in 2011, including the annual re-election of retiring in 2011 after more than 42 years in the Directors from the AGM this May.
I would like to thank him for his in recommending to shareholders, following contribution to establishing Amlin as one of the individual as well as collective evaluation, that the most respected aviation markets in the sector.
Board possesses the necessary skills and diversity Rod has been supported by a high quality and of experience that a complex insurer such as experienced team and I am confident that his Amlin requires.
Further governance details are set successor, Miles Taffs, and the team will maintain out in this Annual Report, particularly in the Amlins excellent underwriting record and Board Corporate Governance Statement considerable reputation in this class.
It has been a demanding year for Amlin, with All of the Directors are standing for re-election at challenging trading conditions, heightened the AGM other than Tony Holt, a non-executive claims activity and a rigorous focus on regulatory since his retirement as Underwriting Director in matters.
We have continued to make real 2008.
I pay tribute to Tonys major contribution progress due to the positive leadership of Charles to Amlins success since its formation in 1998.
Philipps and his management colleagues, and the His continued Board involvement over the last ready response of our employees.
I would like to Roger Taylor two years, including at two key subsidiaries, has thank them all for their energy and commitment.
