R&A Text 13 01 2011 09:59 Page 3 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 3 Chairmans Statement Richard Brewster It is pleasing to report that your Company has recovered significantly again this year.
From the low point two years ago the net asset value has increased by 49% and this growth arises despite our value investment style currently not being in fashion.
In the last 12 months our Manager has delivered further solid growth in net asset value of 13%.
As I said last year, the Managers style has helped protect shareholders in these fragile markets by maintaining a conservative investment policy of selecting well managed and fairly valued companies thus minimising risk.
Our solid revenue reserves and a growing level of income support our forecast of continued growth in our annual dividends of 5% in 2011.
Performance and Markets switched bond investments into equities in order to capture We have long considered that a value based approach to stock higher returns.
The financial bonds we purchased at selection delivers the least volatile and most consistent approach distressed prices in late 2008 appreciated materially and to investment.
A concentration on not over paying for growth have provided much needed income at a time when some and a focus on cash generation and dividends characterises our companies suspended or cut dividends.
Our gearing at the investment philosophy.
The results this year have not matched period end was 4%, having increased the European, UK and the benchmark, with the Net Asset Value total return rising Asian portfolios over the year.
The new investments in both 15.9%, compared to the composite benchmark index rising the UK and Europe have focussed on exporters or companies 17.5% on a similar basis.
Whilst disappointing, this is only the with significant exposure to Asian and Chinese growth.
second year since 1999 that our NAV return, with dividends For some years we have been reducing exposure to Europe reinvested, has not exceeded the benchmark.
The major and we only increased it when we felt that sentiment was at contributing factors to the underperformance include an its lowest point at the time of the Greek refinancing.
We have underweight position in the US market, where returns were focused on Northern Europe and at the year end did not own stronger than in other markets, and a limited exposure to any equities in Ireland, Greece or Portugal.
The prospects for growth stocks which were more in favour than value stocks.
Germany appear encouraging, based upon the weakness of Following the strong recovery in share prices last year, it might the euro combined with booming exports, leading to solid have been expected that we would enter a period of growth from the corporate sector.
Following a focus on consolidation which should have favoured our investment quality shares, while avoiding financial and southern style.
However, in general, companies have been adept at Mediterranean stocks, our performance has been 11% greater seeking new markets in the Far East, paying down debt and than the European benchmark index.
keeping a tight control on costs in order to increase profits.
A headwind for our overall performance has been the These actions have led to corporate earnings growing strongly strength of the US market relative to other developed markets over the past year, favouring a growth rather than a value and our underweight position in that area.
The US orientated investment portfolio.
Governments strategy for recovery has been to stimulate It has been said that share prices climb a wall of worry and demand whilst the US Federal Bank has provided huge despite the bailout of Greece, and subsequently Ireland, austerity liquidity to the financial sector, culminating in a second round programmes in Europe and quantitative easing, it has not been of quantitative easing which, in general, has been beneficial a bad environment for investment in most asset classes.
With for US equities and bonds alike.
The mid term elections in the interest rates in many developed nations remaining near zero, US have reduced the ability of the Democrat administration to capital has sought better returns and flowed into bonds, enact policy but the economy appears to be making steady, equities, commodities and gold.
In addition, China has albeit slow progress.
significantly increased bank lending and government investment In Asia, there appears less appetite for austerity and in some in order to offset sluggish demand from the West for its countries inflation is becoming a problem.
The property products, further stimulating the demand for commodities and market in many Asian countries has been buoyant and bank food.
We have moved rapidly from a fear of deflation and lending equally strong, stimulating domestic demand and stagnation to a period where inflationary pressures have starting the process of re-orientating economies from being returned and will be hard to contain.
export led to a more balanced model.
The increase in earnings As our confidence in a broad based economic recovery has from Asian companies has surpassed the rise in share prices in grown, we have steadily invested our cash balances and the region, meaning that valuations are now lower than a year R&A Text 13 01 2011 09:59 Page 4 4 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Chairmans Statement continued ago, supporting 12.7% of our portfolio being committed to our Senior Independent Director and a key member of all the region.
We are, though, alert to the risks of the major committees and has therefore been at the heart of economies overheating and we are keeping a watching eye nearly every decision made by the Board.
He has been a source on the region.
of invaluable advice for very many years as well as being a close colleague to all Directors.
We thank him for his unstinting In the UK, we have failed to match the performance of service and wish him every happiness for the future.
The majority of this relative underperformance can be attributed to being underweight As one door closes another one opens and I am pleased to advise in the mining sector.
Metal prices have been buoyant which you that at the AGM we shall be asking shareholders to approve has led to significant share price appreciation.
We have had the appointment of Peter Sullivan as a new Director.
Peter brings a better experience in the oil exploration sector, which has to the Board new talents with commercial knowledge gained performed well, culminating in a takeover of Dana from both his business career and his extensive time working in Petroleum.
The UK stock market provides access to the Far East.
It was felt appropriate for Bankers, as a global companies doing business all over the world and investor, to find a new director with considerable international increasingly has less exposure to the domestic economy.
Peter was formerly Executive Director & CEO Hong New holdings this year like Essar Energy and iEnergizer, for Kong at Standard Chartered Bank Limited and is a non-Executive instance, are listed in London but operate entirely in India.
Director of a number of companies involved in the Far East.
Our intention, over the medium term, is to continue our We look forward to working with Peter in the years ahead.
commitment to these international companies listed in London which is likely to lead to a reduction in our Annual General Meeting exposure to mainly UK orientated businesses.
The Annual General Meeting this year will be held at the offices of Henderson Global Investors, 201 Bishopsgate, Our emerging market investments have been heavily London EC2M 3AE on Tuesday 22 February 2011 at 2.30 pm.
concentrated in certain countries and sectors.
Over the past few Full details of the business of the meeting are set out in the years this focus has delivered very good performance but over Notice of Meeting which this year has been printed separately the last twelve months the holdings in South Africa and Brazil to save costs and is being sent to shareholders with this have not helped overall performance.
As emerging market Report and Financial Statements.
Directions and a map economies, like Latin America and Eastern Europe, develop and showing the location of the AGM can also be found on the grow, we are adjusting our investment strategy to gain access Notice of the AGM.
As usual our Manager, Alex Crooke, and to these new opportunities.
his team will be making a presentation.
I do hope that as many shareholders as possible choose to attend.
Revenue and Dividends I am pleased to report that the outlook for dividends is Outlook beginning to pick up and we are finding more of our The coming year will undoubtedly entail more major equity investments growing their distributions.
In the last challenges and continuing stress as some countries struggle couple of years our investment income has suffered a under the strains of too much debt.
Policy makers across the significant drop but we have managed to offset this by globe will be encouraging economic growth, consumer switching investment into bonds and increasing confidence and reflation in order to drive higher levels of GDP.
We have also benefited from the The principal concern is the artificial nature of their actions recent change in the tax treatment of our overseas and their sustainability if these policies fail to create a investments.
It is a great testimony to the resilience of our supportive environment for increased investment.
What we income that despite the loss of dividends from our BP need to see is the private sector increasing investment and holding, our dividend is still covered.
We believe that BP creating jobs.
will resume dividends in 2011 and have confidence that there will be continuing income growth from our We remain optimistic that we can continue to deliver growth underlying investments over the coming year.
in both net asset value and dividends but retain our cautious spread of investments in order to navigate the difficult global We are recommending a final dividend of 3.1p, making a issues that will continue to overshadow stock markets.
total of 12.1p, an increase of 5.2% for the year.
This level Current equity valuations do not price in a full recovery and of dividend is higher than our forecast and represents an there is scope for share prices to continue their upward trend increase above the level of RPI.
Importantly, this increase is should the reduction in government spending be matched by one of our key objectives and continues our record of an increase in corporate investment.
If so, the benefit to the raising dividends to shareholders each year for the last overall global economy will be far greater than most 44 years.
We recognise that regular growth in income is commentators are predicting and may well be sufficient to a major attraction to investors.
Looking to 2011, we are boost demand and push growth above trend.
forecasting a dividend per share of not less than 12.7p, an increase of 5.0%.
Board Succession and new Director Francis Sumner steps down from the Board at the AGM after Richard Brewster, Chairman serving 14 years as a Director.
In recent years he has been both 17 January 2011
