About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 07 Group Chairmans statement Marcus Agius and jobs.
It is now important that the remaining issues and in particular 2010 saw a continuation of the global economic recovery which began in 2009 and while the level of global economic activity remains weak uncertainty are resolved as quickly as possible to allow the sector to manage and plan its activities in a stable regulatory environment.
reected in high unemployment rates the recovery is intact, and the fears of a double-dip recession in developed economies that emerged in I stated in my report last year that the new regulatory architecture should the middle of last year have largely abated.
Indeed, global GDP growth averaged nearly 5% in 2010, led by the emerging economies although meet three objectives and it is important to reiterate them: growth in most of the developed world was generally below trend.
A safer and more secure financial system: A banking industry that is well equipped to support the needs of the Global growth is expected to slow to around 4.25% in 2011, reecting less rapid growth in Asia and Latin America, where policy has begun to tighten, global economy: and partly in response to higher ination.
While growth in most of the larger The ability of the suppliers of financial capital to earn a positive return European countries has held up surprisingly well particularly Germany on their capital.
the outlook for the UK is more sobering: activity declined unexpectedly in Q4, and policy tightening is likely to temper the pace of recovery this The Basel Committee is sensibly phasing in over a period of years the new year.
Downside risks remain: we saw, for example, the re-emergence of regulatory requirements in respect of both capital and liquidity.
This will sovereign risk concerns in certain European countries in the last quarter help ensure that the banking system can continue to support the needs of 2010 and at the start of this year and more recently the unrest in a of the global economy and in particular to finance the recovery in the number of Middle Eastern and North African countries affecting the price developed economies.
The new architecture will need to be kept under of oil and confidence generally.
We expect these problems to be contained, close review, however, to ensure that the three objectives set out above but while the outlook for markets is sanguine for now, it is vulnerable to continue to be met.
History shows that new regulations invariably lead any hints that monetary policy support might be withdrawn.
to unintended consequences, so it will be crucial continuously to monitor their effects to ensure that the desired outcomes are achieved.
It will Whilst it is too early to say that the financial crisis is over, I believe it is also be vital to ensure that the new rules are applied consistently on a important to reect on the progress that has been made over the last few worldwide basis in order to allow international banks such as Barclays years in improving the resilience of the banking sector.
This is because to operate on a global level playing eld.
It would be very dangerous if there is, in some quarters, the sense that nothing has changed as a result countries such as the UK continued in a position of regulatory superof the crisis: in fact a huge amount has already been achieved.
To begin equivalence, a position that makes it harder to support private sector with, the banking system as a whole is now much better capitalised than led economic growth.
before the crisis for example, Barclays Core Tier 1 Capital at the end of 2010 was 10.8%, nearly double the level at the end of 2008.
We were A new regulatory architecture is one aspect of restoring trust in banks particularly pleased that the results of the stress tests run by the but it will not be sufficient by itself.
Banks must show by their actions that Committee of European Banking Supervisors CEBS in 2010 showed that they understand the public concerns over the mistakes of the past, assist Barclays Tier 1 ratio was amongst the highest in the European bank sector and collaborate in the reform process and recognise their obligation to after application of the CEBS adverse scenario.
Liquidity has also been contribute to economic recovery.
A successful banking system brings strengthened signicantly Barclays held a Liquidity Pool of over 150bn many benets to society, including: at the end of 2010, more than three times the level at the end of 2008.
Considerable change has also been made in other areas across the sector: Lending leverage is lower: stress testing has been institutionalised: the Financial The supply of credit is at the heart of economic activity and it is the role Stability Board principles on Remuneration have been widely implemented of banks in performing this function to facilitate appropriate risk taking and, nally, good progress is being made in the vital area of recovery in the economy by households and businesses.
In Barclays alone, we lend and resolution planning.
We still await final rules in other important areas about 500bn to customers and clients worldwide.
In 2010, our gross new however, such as the minimum levels of capital to be held by systemically UK lending totalled 43bn, including 7.5bn arising from the acquisition important financial institutions and, of course, we await the report from of Standard Life Bank.
the Independent Commission on Banking in the UK which is tasked with examining possible measures to promote stability and competition The main UK banks recently made substantial commitments relating in UK Banking.
to lending to UK businesses, including making available the appropriate capital and resources to support gross new lending of 190bn in 2011, The importance of the regulatory reform agenda cannot be overstated.
In addition, the main UK banks A great deal has already been achieved and we support strong regulation have also agreed to contribute to the creation of an equity fund which the in order to support strong banks for the benefit of all.
Accordingly, we have banks expect to grow over the coming years to 1.5bn to support growth made a significant contribution to the debate.
But the significant volume in companies with an annual turnover of between 10m-100m.
of work involved in responding to the numerous consultations should not be underestimated and much of it necessarily requires the attention of our most senior people.
While we recognise the need for this to happen and Employment welcome the prospect of a better outcome we nevertheless also look Barclays employs nearly 147,500 people of whom 60,000 are in the UK.
forward to the time when the new normal in regulatory terms is nally The banking sector as a whole employs nearly 500,000 people across established so that we can focus on our core business of banking, namely the UK and the jobs of many more are related to the success of the wider supporting our clients and so assisting the creation of economic growth financial services industry.
08 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Group Chairmans statement continued CEO Succession Payment of Tax Successful banks pay tax on their profits and in the last normal year A key development during the year was the announcement that Bob Diamond would succeed John Varley as Chief Executive.
While I set out before the credit crunch 2006, the total direct and indirect taxation paid by the banking sector in the UK was nearly 40bn.
As the sector in the Corporate Governance Report the background to the decision to appoint Bob and in particular, the process that was followed, I would like recovers, it will again become a major contributor to Governments across the world and particularly in the UK.
to pay tribute here to the exceptional job performed by John during his tenure as CEO.
Barclays has been transformed since he became CEO in Payment of Dividends September 2004, enabling Barclays to take its place in the first rank of global universal banks.
There can have been no greater test of leadership Successful banks pay dividends to their owners typically pension funds and mutual funds and dividend payments from UK banks totalled over than to have been CEO during the financial crisis and John brought the bank through this period with courage and creativity.
We are fortunate 20% of total FTSE dividends in 2006.
This gure has been signicantly reduced because of the crisis and in Barclays we have had to maintain a that he will continue to be available to us as an advisor on regulatory matters until September.
conservative dividend policy because of regulatory uncertainty.
But it is in the interests of our owners and individual pensioners to see a successful We are also fortunate that we have such a capable and qualied replacement banking system again providing a significant source of income to institutional and private savings vehicles.
Our dividend policy has been in Bob Diamond.
He has a proven track record as a business leader and the Board and I are looking forward to working with him to take Barclays progressive over the past two years and we expect it to remain so.
forward in the years ahead as he builds on his many achievements to date.
Community Support Investing in the communities in which we operate is something that has Board Changes We appointed two new Directors during the year.
Dambisa Moyo was always been important to Barclays and our employees around the world.
appointed in May and her background in financial services and as a global economist will bring valuable insights to the Board.
Alison Carnwath was During difficult economic times, we have even more responsibility to the communities where we live and work.
Despite the impact of the appointed in August.
She is Chair of Land Securities and has a long history in financial services as a banker and a director of a number of global crisis, Barclays resolved not to reduce its level of community support and, in 2010, we invested over 55m in carefully targeted programmes financial services businesses.
Leigh Clifford retired from the Board on 30 September.
He made an extremely valuable contribution to the Board around the world.
and we benefitted greatly from his experience and his wisdom, particularly during the financial crisis.
We wish him well for the future.
Our truly global community investment programme now supports projects in 37 countries, reaching more than one and a half million In conclusion, I would like on behalf of the Board to thank two particular people and providing support to over 8,000 organisations.
First, our many shareholders for their support in 2010.
We weathered the storm as well as we did because of a combination To make this happen, over 62,000 colleagues gave their time, energy and expertise to volunteering, fundraising and regular giving initiatives of public support for which we are sincerely grateful proactive management and the underlying strength of our business.
Our resolve throughout the year a record gure, of which we are justiably proud.
You will see from the Chief Executives review that Citizenship, and in now is to build on this strength to sustain the delivery of value for our shareholders into the future.
Finally, our thanks go out to all Barclays particular, demonstrating our credentials as a global citizen, is one of our priorities in 2011.
147,500 employees who have continued to work very hard and to show dedication to the service of our customers and clients.
This lies at the The scale of each of these components of contribution is profoundly heart of any success we may achieve.
affected by the ability of the UK industry to compete with the best international peers.
In order to maximise the contribution of UK banks to society, we must be allowed to compete on a level playing eld within a secure regulatory framework.
We recognise the need to pay responsibly, including much greater levels of deferment, greater use of equity and the ability to claw back payments in specic circumstances.
As Chairman, I am acutely aware of the public disquiet over remuneration in the industry.
Barclays is committed to acting responsibly in this area.
We are fully Marcus Agius compliant with all regulatory requirements and our remuneration systems Group Chairman are designed to reward success, not failure.
If we are to remain competitive in a global market place, however, it is simply not an option for us 10th March 2011 unilaterally to reduce compensation levels.
We can only contribute to society if we are able to recruit and retain good people.
Against the above background, we are very grateful to John Varley in leading the industry discussions with the UK Government which resulted in a collective statement by the principal UK banks on lending, tax, pay and broader contributions to the economy and to society.
The statement underlined the banks recognition of their responsibility to support economic recovery and to show responsibility on pay.
Accordingly, Barclays 2010 bonus pool was down 7%, despite increased profits and income, in line with our commitment to the UK Government for restraint.
