Chairmans Statement Overview and performance conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting, when a resolution will As reported in my interim statement, the first half of the Companys be put to shareholders to renew it.
financial year was weak as market volatility continued due to the uncertainties in global markets.
In the second part of the year Subsidiary company commodity prices rallied, driven by improved demand fundamentals, The Companys subsidiary, BlackRock Gold Limited, has not traded for which contributed to stronger company balance sheets.
As a result a number of years.
Accordingly, an application has been made to the of this increased cash flow, merger and acquisition activity returned Registrar of Companies for the company to be struck off the register with vigour, the mining sector accounting for nearly a third of all deals and dissolved in due course.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive Against this backdrop, at the end of the financial year, the Company 2010 has seen a number of developments surrounding the AIFM had recouped the losses that transpired during the global economic Directive, which effectively introduces a regulatory framework for downturn.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, the Companys net investment companies.
The sum total of these developments have asset value NAV increased by 46.3% and the share price rose by broadly reduced many of the potentially adverse consequences which 48.6% both percentages calculated in sterling terms with income threatened the investment company structure and the legislation reinvested.
By comparison your Companys benchmark index, the adopted by the European Parliament represents a much better HSBC Global Mining Index, grew by 35.6%.
However, the legislative process is still ongoing and the Association of Investment Companies will be working Performance to 31 December 2010 with the UK authorities over the next two years to determine precisely how the rules will apply in the UK.
One year Five years Net asset value per share: Outlook capital only 45.3% 142.3% Whilst we anticipate continuing economic difficulties within the 1 with income and 5 warrant reinvested 46.3% 156.6% peripheral countries of Europe and political instability, we remain Ordinary share price: positive longer term.
We expect mining companies to outperform on capital only 47.5% 130.7% the back of strong commodity prices supported by a demand for basic 1 with income and 5 warrant reinvested 48.6% 146.6% resources from emerging markets.
Ratings in the sector also have the HSBC Global Mining Index : opportunity to improve.
capital only 33.6% 145.5% with income reinvested 35.6% 170.4% A W Lea Adjusted for exchange rates relative to sterling.
1 warrant for every 5 ordinary shares.
24 February 2011 Sources: BlackRock and DataStream.
Since the year end, the Companys NAV has fallen by 7.6% compared with a decrease of 7.0% in the benchmark index.
Earnings and dividends The earnings per share for the year amounted to 6.57p, compared to 4.90p for the previous year.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 6.00p per share 2009: 4.75p, which represents an increase of 26.3% on the previous year.
The dividend is payable on 11 May 2011 to shareholders on the Companys register on 1 April 2011.
Discount to net asset value The Board recognises the importance to investors of the relationship between the discount of the Companys share price and its underlying NAV.
Accordingly, the Directors monitor the discount closely and regularly consider the desirability of share repurchases, taking into account shareholder views.
The Companys current discount is 13.0%.
During the year and up to the date of this report, 225,000 shares were bought back and subsequently placed in treasury.
The Directors have the authority from shareholders to buy back up to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital.
This authority will expire on the 4 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
