In this section Executive Summary Chairmans Statement 08 Chief Executives Review 10 Executive Summary Chairmans Statement Hans-Jrg Rudloff BlueBay Asset Management plc has had The absolute investment performance was another successful year.
During the course positive in all the long-only funds managed of this year, BlueBay attracted record net by BlueBay during the year.
Relative subscriptions of $10.2 billion to reach total investment performance was positive Assets under Management AuM of for emerging market debt and convertible $34.3 billion at the end of the financial long-only strategies, negative for the year.
As in the previous financial year, high yield long-only strategy and flat to investment grade strategies continued positive for the investment grade strategy.
to account for the majority of the inflows Total fee revenues were 36% higher at with $8.6 billion recorded for the year.
137.4 million while the increase in costs However, as the year progressed and was only 16% to a total of 88.2 million.
the new credit cycle became more firmly For the year ended 30 June 2010, established, it was encouraging to note BlueBay increased its pre-tax profits the increasing strength of inflows into almost threefold to reach 49.7 million other strategies with higher risk-return 2009: 17.5 million.
profiles, most notably emerging market debt where net inflows were approximately The recent financial crisis will continue to $1.9 billion for the year of which have an effect on the financial sector for $1.7 billion were into the long-only funds.
In some ways, things At the end of the year, BlueBays AuM will never be the same again and no bank in alternative products amounted to or financial firm will remain unaffected.
$2.7 billion, a reduction of 11% from In exchange for the massive injections of the previous year.
This reduction masks the public monies to stabilise the banking sector strong investment performance achieved and to get the financial markets working by the BlueBay Multi-Strategy Fund and a again, governments now require greater number of steps taken recently to revitalise oversight and control of the financial BlueBays alternatives business, which sector through increased regulation.
have included the launch of several new alternative funds and the creation of a specialist sales team.
