Chairmans Statement they believe continued strong expansion in countries such as Brazil, India and China will be the principal drivers of world growth.
The table below provides a breakdown of the estimated contributions to the net asset value total return for the year.
Attribution of Return Market benchmark return 11.7% Stock selection UK equities 0.7 Overseas equities 0.9 Asset allocation 0.8 Corporate bonds 0.2 Gearing 2.0 Lynn Ruddick Chairman Expenses 0.9 British Assets Trust net asset value I have pleasure in presenting my first annual total return 12.2% statement as Chairman of British Assets Trust.
The Companys net asset value total return for Gearing was a significant contributor to the year was 12.2 per cent.
This is ahead of the performance in rising markets.
The contribution total return of 11.7 per cent from the composite from asset allocation was also positive, reflecting benchmark of 75% FTSE All-Share Index and in the main the Companys overweight exposure 25% FTSE World ex UK Index.
The share price to emerging markets which continued to total return was 21.2 per cent, reflecting a outperform global developed markets during the significant narrowing of the debt-adjusted year.
discount, which at the end of the year was 1.1 per cent compared to 6.9 per cent at the end The negative contribution from stock selection of the previous year.
reflects the defensive positioning of the portfolio.
Although stockmarkets made progress during the As investors gained confidence that economies year as a whole, there was a certain degree of were recovering and not going to fall into volatility due principally to the uncertainty of the depression, companies with the greatest global economic recovery and the implications of sensitivity to economic recovery benefited the the sovereign debt crisis in the Eurozone.
In the most from the ensuing rise in stockmarkets.
Often these were companies with high levels of debt UK, the measures taken by the new coalition and low levels of cash which the Managers had government to reduce the significant fiscal deficit tended to avoid in favour of higher quality cash have been generally well received and, with a generative companies able to sustain dividend gradual return to economic growth, company payments.
In the UK, income stocks were also results have by and large been positive.
affected by the underperformance of the oil Throughout the year, the Managers maintained an sector, with BP suspending its dividend.
overweight position in emerging markets, where Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3 Chairmans Statement continued The corporate bond portfolio had another good overseas.
However, dividends remain below the year, delivering returns ahead of both equities and level they were prior to the credit crisis and, government bonds.
having reviewed revenue projections for the year ahead, the Board considers it likely that the level Earnings and Dividends of dividend will be maintained again in respect of The Companys revenue earnings for the year the current financial year.
Three interim dividends of 1.442p per share were paid during Gearing the year and the Board recommends payment of As at 30 September 2010, the Companys level a final dividend of 1.786p per share, payable on of gearing, net of cash, was 21.0 per cent.
This 7 January 2011 to those shareholders on the was represented by equity gearing of 6.2 per cent register on 10 December 2010.
This brings the and 14.8 per cent in corporate bonds.
total dividend for the year to 6.112p per share, The Companys borrowings are represented by unchanged from the previous year and in 60 million 6.25 per cent Bonds which are due accordance with the Boards previously stated for redemption in 2031, and a 60 million bank expectations.
revolving credit facility which matures in March Within the UK, where the Company earns most of 2013, 27.4 million of which was drawn down at its income, dividend payments generally improved the year end.
However, this improvement was offset by the suspension by BP of its dividend Annual General Meeting following the significant oil spill in the Gulf of The Companys Annual General Meeting will be Mexico.
BP, which had been one of the held at 12 noon on Thursday 16 December 2010 Companys largest investments was, prior to the at the offices of F&C Asset Management plc, suspension, the biggest dividend payer in the UK 80 George Street, Edinburgh.
It will be followed and this event had a significant effect on many by a presentation from the Managers.
The impact on your good opportunity for shareholders to meet the Company is explained in the Managers Review.
Directors and Managers and I would encourage you to attend.
Last year the Companys revenue benefited from the repayment of past VAT on management The Notice of the Meeting is contained on pages fees.
This year, dividend income is still below the 53 to 55 and a Form of Proxy is enclosed levels seen prior to the economic downturn and separately.
Shareholders who are unable to this, combined with the effect of the BP dividend attend the Meeting are encouraged to complete suspension, means that the Companys net and return the Form of Proxy to the Companys income for the year was below what was registrars so as to ensure that their votes are needed to cover the cost of the dividend.
However, the Company has significant accumulated revenue reserves from which it is Outlook able to cover dividends.
In managing the portfolio, the Board has to strike Looking forward, the Board recognises the a balance between generating income and capital importance of the dividend level to shareholders returns.
In the current environment, the and the attractions of its yield premium relative to Managers expectation is for only modest cash deposits and equity markets in general.
The economic growth in developed markets.
Board expects the Company to benefit from However, companies are generally in a strong continued dividend growth in the UK and position to grow their dividends.
Emerging 4 British Assets Trust plc markets retain good long term growth prospects and remain attractive.
Notwithstanding the uncertain economic times the Board believes the Company, with its high dividend yield and prospects for capital growth, will continue to be attractive to investors.
LynnRuddick Chairman 15November2010 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5
