04 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chairmans Statement The Companys investment objective is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
The report covers the period from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2010.
During that period the Companys Net Asset Value NAV on a total return basis was up 14.7%, and the share price was up 9.8%.
The Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index, which is the benchmark, was up 14.1% and MSCI World Index up 9.4%.
Your manager has again outperformed the benchmark.
The performance of the Companys Net Asset Value against the benchmark is particularly pleasing because, at the half-year stage, the Company had under-performed the benchmark.
As I stated in my report at the time, the stock-market rally was being led by cyclical, highly geared stocks, while the Company remained focused on companies with little or no gearing, relatively low volatility and fundamental value.
This strategy helped the second half performance.
Throughout the period under review, many central banks have continued with exceptionally easy monetary policies with interest rates at Strone Macpherson unprecedentedly low levels.
These factors combined with continuing Chairman quantitative easing have resulted in a sharp fall in many government bond yields.
The Companys shares have traded over the past year at a discount to net asset value of between 5% and 11% a narrower range than the previous year.
We continue to monitor carefully the level of both premium and discount and will, if necessary and appropriate, take steps to limit the volatility of any discount through measured buybacks of shares.
Therefore, the Board is again seeking to renew its powers to buy back the Companys shares.
The income from Fixed Income Investments has declined by some 11.6% during 2009 2010 as interest rates reduced further.
Underlying dividend income has fallen by 0.7% with the result that gross revenues of 19.54m in 2009 2010 are slightly lower than the 20.70m achieved in 2008 2009.
The base Investment Management fee is higher, however, because of the change in the value of the portfolio.
Net revenue per share is down by 0.5% while earnings per share amount to 7.94p 2009 7.98p.
The tax charge is significantly lower primarily due to the recent change in the tax treatment of overseas dividends.
The Company has this year again benefited from a VAT repayment.
This amounted to 396,498, which compares to last years repayment of 960,163.
The VAT repayment amounts to 0.25p per share in total, of which 0.14p is attributable to income.
We are recommending a final dividend of 5.7p 5.45p in 2009 including the special dividend which, together with the interim dividend of 1.80p 1.80p in 2009, brings the total dividends for the year to 7.5p 7.25p in 2009, an increase of 3.5%.
We continue to caution that dividend progress in the future may be more difficult than in recent years, given the expected continuing challenges in the world economy and the low interest rate environment.
05 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 During what has been a turbulent year, liquidity levels have moved between Against this continuing difficult background, your Board and its Investment a low of 14.5% in September 2009 and about 20.2% at the year end.
Manager have remained relatively cautious by, to repeat a phrase used last year, sticking to their knitting.
Your Companys portfolio has a good The Board decided to reduce temporarily the Companys exposure to the spread of high yielding assets many at a discount with a range of Euro after a period of sterling weakness, and profits from this position, underlying currencies.
The portfolio also has significant liquidity which which has now been closed off, amounted to 1.95m.
At the Nomination Committee, the Board has again completed a formal evaluation of the Directors, the Chairman, the Board itself and its Strone Macpherson Committees.
John May retires by rotation at this years Annual General Chairman Meeting and will offer himself for re-election.
The Nomination Committee 15 November 2010 has considered again his qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and its Committees and confirms that he continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to his role and the Board recommends to the shareholders that he be re-elected.
The Board is aware of the sensitivity surrounding Directors remuneration in the current climate but there has been no change in fee levels since 2006.
Therefore the Board decided to commission an independent review of the fee levels.
As a consequence of the review, Directors fees have been increased in aggregate by 18,360.
This figure is considerably lower than the figure recommended by the independent consultant.
The details of the increase are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 53.
Since the year-end, until 31 October, 2010, the Net Asset Value has risen from 518.28p to 519.31p, and the share price from 465.50p to 482.50p.
This represents some under-performance against the benchmark, but over a very short period.
Given the easy monetary conditions referred to, many prudent savers are finding their incomes reduced as they receive much lower returns on deposits whereas borrowers are benefitting from unprecedentedly low borrowing costs.
Signs are also emerging of bubbles in certain asset classes globally as investors seek to deploy resources away from nil or low yield cash deposits.
There is a risk that an extended period of easy monetary conditions such as we are presented with could distort significantly the efficient allocation of long term capital.
Quantitative easing and these exceptionally low levels of interest rates are essentially an experiment: the path to unravelling the measures currently being deployed is unclear.
Central banks are still implementing policies for what are emergency conditions and the return to a more normal interest rate environment may prove uncomfortable for some markets and asset classes.
It is still not clear that a broadly based, fundamentally sound recovery is assured in many of the mature Western economies and the effects of the planned reduction in government expenditure in the UK and other countries are not yet fully assessable.
However, the private sector will continue to need to be encouraged at all levels to invest, expand and create employment over the years ahead and in principle this should prove good for equities in many markets in the medium term.
