02 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review Share price total return outperformance against the FTSE All-Share Total Return over ten years Chairmans statement 167% Increase in the annual dividend 4.4% Results Our own board has an important role to play in reviewing Caledonias net asset value per share recovered by 30.5% in the year Caledonias investment strategy.
We have normally found it to 31 March 2010, having fallen by some 28% in the previous years appropriate to undertake such a review every other year, but last turbulent equity markets.
The fact that this recovery lagged that year we decided to hold an interim review in the light of the of the FTSE All-Share index should be seen in the context of our exceptionally dif cult global economic conditions which persisted relative outperformance in the previous year and, over a prolonged for much of the year.
We examined in detail the geographic mix of period, in each of the years before that.
our investments, where a notable change over the last several years Our share price total return has continued to outperform has been our increased exposure to Asia.
We re-af rmed our belief the index signi cantly over a ten year period.
However, over the that this exposure will continue to give us good growth last five years we are now showing some underperformance due to opportunities, while recognising that it does require a signi cant the recent widening of our share price discount to net asset value.
input of investment management resources on our part.
We also Tim Ingram gives a detailed analysis, in his Chief Executives report, examined the mix of quoted and unquoted investments in our of Caledonias performance track record.
overall portfolio and concluded that a signi cant weighting of unquoted investments with strong growth potential remains Dividend appropriate, but again we recognise the greater investment The board declared a second interim dividend in February of 24.7p, management time these require compared with quoted which was paid on 30 March 2010.
As stated at the time, the board investments.
believed that it was in the shareholders interests to accelerate the In addition, we speci cally examined our experiences of timing of this years final dividend.
The second interim dividend has investing in India, including a review of our current investments.
therefore replaced the final dividend that would normally have Caledonia has been invested in India for over five years, during been paid in August 2010.
The directors do not recommend the which we have learnt a great deal and, we believe, have built a payment of a final dividend.
good reputation in the Indian market.
While appreciating the risks The second interim dividend gave a 5.1% increase of 1.2p over associated with investing in India, we continue to believe that India the 2009 final dividend, resulting in a total dividend for the year is likely to offer an attractive level of growth over the coming years.
of 35.3p per share, an overall increase of 4.4%.
This represents the 43rd successive year of annual dividend increases.
AIFM Directive Caledonia has spent much time over the past few months seeking Investment strategy to persuade EU policy makers to exclude investment trusts from During the year, I have had the opportunity to visit the the scope of the proposed Alternative Investment Fund Managers management teams of most of our major investee companies, Directive.
The Directive was drafted in response to the EUs accompanying the responsible Caledonia executive director.
perception of the role played by hedge funds and private equity From these visits I have been able to appreciate just how much rms in the recent financial crisis and its main objective is to subject our investee companies value having Caledonia as a signi cant these to greater transparency and accountability.
However, the shareholder, given our good investment reputation.
It is also clear Directive has included investment trusts within its fide nition of an to me that having a Caledonia representative as a non-executive alternative investment fund and, in doing so, has failed to recognise director on most of our investee company boards gives us an their totally different nature and structure, led as they are by invaluable insight into the affairs of those companies.
It not only boards fully accountable to shareholders, subject to the highest enables us to gain a deeper understanding of our investments, standards of corporate governance and transparency and with but also allows our investee companies to bene t from the skills their shares freely tradeable on the London Stock Exchange.
Amendments to the Directive are being proposed to recognise the distinctive nature of investment trusts, but we shall continue to press for their total exclusion from its scope, since otherwise there remains a risk of signi cant cost and compliance burdens, with no bene ts whatsoever.
Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 03 We have again outperformed against our ten year benchmark, delivering a total shareholder return over the period of 197%.
Board Staff The board has seen a number of changes over the past year.
In All our staff have once more ful lled their duties with considerable September 2009, we were pleased to appoint Charles Gregson as professionalism and dedication and I give them my thanks for their an additional independent non-executive director.
His experience hard work throughout the year.
from having been an executive director at United Business Media and from his current role as the non-executive Chairman of ICAP Outlook provides a valuable additional resource to our board.
Equity markets have recovered from their steep falls of the recent In December 2009, Stephen King joined the board as Finance past and overall market valuations now look more challenging, Director in succession to Jonathan Cartwright.
Jonathan made a with the likely prospect of sluggish economic growth ahead in considerable contribution to Caledonias affairs over some twenty the developed world.
In the US and much of Europe, scal years both as Finance Director and as a Caledonia representative on retrenchment will need to be severe and that will be notably so a number of investee company boards.
I would like to thank him on in the UK.
We now look forward to the new Government taking behalf of the board and shareholders for his diligent and dedicated timely and appropriate steps, however hard the decisions may be, service.
Stephen joined us from fide La Rue, where he had been to reduce the level of public borrowing and to pursue concomitant Group Finance Director, and has already brought to bear his wide measures to reshape our public services.
ranging skills to Caledonias bene t. Nearly all of our investment activity last year was in existing In January 2010, we announced that Tim Ingram will retire investee companies, supporting the capital needs of sound as Chief Executive following the AGM on 21 July after eight years businesses which we know well.
Our focus is likely to be similar over at the helm.
Tim has delivered an outstanding performance for the year ahead, though we shall remain alert for new opportunities Caledonia and its shareholders over that period the share price which provide suf cient value potential.
total return has been more than double that of the FTSE All-Share index, a tribute to his exceptionally astute investment judgement.
In addition, he has successfully exercised the wider skills of a chief executive and has been an excellent communicator both with the board and the investment community.
I would like to thank him very much indeed on behalf of the board and shareholders for all that he has done for Caledonia.
James Loudon In his place we welcome Will Wyatt as Chief Executive.
Chairman Will has been an executive director of Caledonia since 2005 and has consistently delivered an excellent investment performance from his portfolio of investee companies.
We are con dent that he will be a worthy successor as Chief Executive.
