The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 3 Chairmans Statement The year ended 30 June 2010 clearly demonstrates City of Londons strengths.
Net asset value total return was 26.5%, our strong revenue reserves enabled us to increase the dividend for the forty-fourth consecutive year, and our total expense ratio remained amongst the lowest in the sector.
Simon fide Zoete Performance for the year to 30 June 2010 points over three years compared to the average of the UK Earnings and dividends Growth & Income sector for investment trusts.
Earnings per share fell by 9%.
This fall was caused partly by a reduction The total expense ratio TER, which is the investment management in the investment income in our portfolio investments and partly by the fee and other non-interest expenses as a percentage of shareholder effect of VAT rebates in the previous year which did not re-occur.
funds, was under 0.5% which is very competitive compared with A fourth interim dividend of 3.25p was paid on 31 August 2010 the OEIC market, most other investment trusts and with other making a total for the year of 12.66p, an increase of 2.8% over actively managed equity funds.
The revenue reserve has declined by 1.2m which This is important because expenses are a shareholder tax on compares with its increase of 9.9m over the previous three years.
performance and we have to compete for investment and savings in Following this decline, the Companys revenue reserve remains a market that may well change as a consequence of the FSAs Retail robust at 26.7m, which equates to approximately the cost of a Distribution Review.
Outlook With the exception of BP, companies in the portfolio have, in Government bond yields are at exceptionally low levels, with ten general, made an encouraging start to our current financial year year British Gilts under 3%.
This reflects fears of deflation, concern with satisfactory dividend declarations in the recent reporting season.
over the possibility of a double dip recession and a strong The quarterly rate will next be considered when the third interim is expectation that base rates will remain at 0.5% for a long time.
declared in March 2011, by which time the Board will be able to What happens from hereon is a matter of much debate but I think assess better the trend in income of the portfolio.
shareholders should take comfort that equities currently give Net Asset Value Total Return investors relatively better income returns than gilts or bank deposits.
It was a good year with a net asset value total return of 26.5%, City of Londons shares currently yield 4.8% based upon our current but all of the gains were made in the first six months, while in the quarterly dividend rate.
second six months there was a negative return of 3.8%.
Gearing There are many shares listed in London that are not suitable for and stock selection both contributed positively to our performance inclusion in our portfolio by virtue of their low or zero dividend yields.
But City of London does have a portfolio which is well-diversified and On stock selection, the most important positive contributors to includes many global companies where our Managers feel there are performance were our overweight holdings in the industrial good prospects of earnings and dividend growth.
Approximately twoengineering and chemicals sectors.
Some 42% of the holding in BP thirds of the profits made by our investee companies come from was sold after the Macondo Gulf oil spill at an average price of 455p, overseas and in some areas of the world, such as Asia Pacific and which compares with BPs price of 319p at the end of our financial emerging markets, there is strong growth momentum.
The problems of BP illustrate the risks in investing in any Whilst equity markets have become less volatile there are still company, however large.
The Board has for many years been considerable doubts as to where the massive credit crunch and now concerned about the high concentration in the FTSE All-Share Index of sovereign indebtedness will lead financial markets, but many certain large UK listed companies and their sectors.
In order to increase companies have responded well to the economic circumstances, for the Managers flexibility, we have increased the limit on investments in example by reducing indebtedness and cutting costs.
Indeed, some overseas listed companies to 20%, which is the maximum permitted companies will prosper in this difficult and uncertain environment within our sector the AIC UK Growth & Income sector.
and I am confident that our portfolio of high quality income City of London outperformed the average of the AIC UK Growth & producing investments will deliver over the medium term.
Income sector by 0.7% over the year.
The Board City of Londons share price did better than its net asset value, as its I am delighted that Simon Barratt will be joining the Board on discount to net asset value with debt at par value narrowed over 1 October 2010.
Simon is General Counsel and Company Secretary at the year from 3.2% to 1.7%.
Whitbread PLC and will bring highly valuable commercial knowledge Performance for five years to 30 June 2010 and experience to the Board.
Sir Keith Stuart will be retiring from Earnings and Dividends the Board on 31 March 2011.
On behalf of the Board and the The Companys annual dividend has grown by 46.9% over the last shareholders I want to thank Keith for his excellent contribution and five years from 8.62p to 12.66p and revenue reserves have wise counsel over the past 11 years.
I will not be seeking re-election increased from 7.69p to 12.79p per share.
My successor will be announced in due course.
Net Asset Value Total Return Annual General Meeting Shareholders net asset value total return has increased by 17.2% Shareholders are invited to the annual general meeting on over the last five years, which compares with 11.4% for the average Thursday 21 October at 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE.
of the AIC UK Growth & Income sector.
Reflecting the The meeting will start at 3pm and will include a presentation from outperformance of lower yielding shares over this period, the return the portfolio manager.
of the FTSE All-Share 4% Capped Index was 24.4%.
Expenses A performance fee of 75,000 was paid to the Manager reflecting Simon fide Zoete net asset value total return outperformance of 3.2 percentage 14 September 2010
