DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT growth can be sustained.
The potential risks are better I am pleased to present understood than they were at this time in 2010 and so it may Shareholders with the Annual be easier to predict what may happen to the economy and markets in 2011 than it was in 2010.
Signs of this return to Report and Accounts of Dexion market normality include increased dispersion and lower Absolute Limited for the year ended correlation between the movements in asset prices, and the 31 December 2010. increasing importance of fundamental, rather than technical, factors when it comes to price determination.
Having seen the performance of the Company improve dramatically during 2009, performance was more subdued in Hedge funds are still the most significant, active provider of 2010 with the net asset value of the Companys Shares liquidity to markets, due in part to regulations curtailing rising by approximately 6.1% over the period.
Many hedge proprietary trading activities by large investment banks.
funds felt the impact of the downturn in the market, caused Accordingly, the Board believes that opportunities for hedge primarily by the Eurozone financial crisis.
As was the case in funds to engage in profitable trading in relatively inefficient 2008 and 2009, a legacy of share price discounts persisted markets are likely to persist.
across the listed hedge fund sector and the Board continued to take further actions to seek to narrow the discount and On 24 November 2010 the Company announced that create secondary market liquidity in the Companys Shares.
effective from 30 November 2010, Peter Walsh would be Notwithstanding this activity, the discount of the Shares resigning as Chairman of the Company and I took over this widened during 2010 to approximately 14% as at the year role, having previously acted as the Senior Independent end, although has since narrowed to approximately 12% as Director.
Mr Walsh had been on the Board since the at 31 March 2011.
Accordingly, in early 2011, further Company's incorporation in November 2002.
The Board continuation votes were triggered for each Share class, and a would like to thank Mr Walsh for his outstanding dedication Circular convening class meetings to consider the relevant and significant contribution to the Company since its launch, resolutions was posted to Shareholders on 2 March 2011. and wishes him well in his retirement.
The Board also announced the appointment of Trevor Ash as Senior The Company continued its programme of Share repurchases Independent Director of the Company effective pursuant to which 14.7 million worth of Shares were bought 30 November 2010.
Mr Ash has been a Non-Executive back in 2010.
Furthermore, at the beginning of the year a Director of the Company since incorporation and he presently successful Reverse Auction Redemption Offer returned chairs the Management Engagement and Remuneration approximately 98 million to Shareholders.
The appointments of Susie Farnon and William Collins as Non-Executive Directors of the Company, effective As a result, the Companys Shares of each class continue to 30 November 2010, were announced at the same time, and trade at among the narrowest discounts to NAV in the I am pleased to welcome them to the Board.
Companys peer group within the London listed funds of hedge funds sector and at a tighter discount to NAV than the As noted above, the Board issued a Circular to Shareholders peer group average.
on 2 March 2011 convening class meetings of all Share classes to consider the 2011 Continuation Resolutions.
On The Board remains conscious of Shareholder sensitivity to 28 March 2011, the Board announced that the resolutions in both discount and share price volatility and will continue to respect of the and $ Share classes had been passed, whilst act in Shareholders best interests in this regard.
the resolution of the Share class had not been passed.
The Board expects to put forward Redemption Proposals to Markets have shown signs of normalising since the latter part Shareholders within 2 months following the vote.
of 2010, driven by growing confidence that global economic 3 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2010 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS I look forward to welcoming Investors to the Annual General Meeting of the Company at 9.30 am on 15 June 2011, which will be held at the Companys registered office at 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey.
