Chairmans Statement Background I am pleased to report that during the 12 months to 31 August 2010, your Company delivered a strong performance.
The net asset value per share at the financial year end was 240.1p 2009 -179.3p, a rise of 35.0% on a total return basis, compared with a gain in the benchmark, the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index, of 24.2% in sterling terms.
The share price rose by 30.8% to 219.0p, reflecting a slight widening in Allan McKenzie the discount from 6.6% to 8.8%.
Chairman Asias financial markets, underpinned by strong Highlights fundamentals, all rose by double digits, led by Thailand, Net Asset Value Total Return 35.0% compared to a Indonesia and Malaysia.
Although the short-term economic benchmark return of 24.2% outlook appears more clouded of late, the long-term outlook Share Price Total Return 32.0% for Asia remains upbeat, as regional economies continue to decouple from the West.
Overview Asian equities rose despite recurring fears that the global economic recovery might stall as stimulus measures were withdrawn.
In May, markets fell to their lowest point in 10 months, as risk aversion triggered a sell-off.
Sentiment was hurt by renewed fears of a debt crisis in Europe, while Chinas monetary tightening threatened to jeopardise Asias recovery.
Underpinning the markets rise was the resilience of Asian economies.
In 2009, Asia grew 5.8% despite contractions in key economies such as Singapore and Taiwan.
This year, the consensus forecast is for the region excluding Japan to grow by 8.6%, its fastest pace of expansion in 20 years.
Driving the recovery are two key factors.
First, low debt levels have allowed regional governments to implement large fiscal stimulus in the face of weak demand in key Western markets.
Second, Asian exports rebounded strongly, driven by intra-regional trade.
China has provided a more structural source of demand, as it steps into its new role as the next engine of global growth.
The mainland, which overtook Japan as the worlds second largest economy in the second quarter, is providing the growth impetus for the industrialised economies of Taiwan and Korea, as well as resource-based ones such as Indonesia.
Notably, Chinas trade with Southeast Asia rose by 54.7% in the first half of 2010 alone.
The remarkable expansion, however, came with a price.
Inflationary pressures, which had been a problem before the credit crisis began, started to build again, particularly in China and India.
Part of the upward pressure on consumer prices was due to disruptions in the food supply, which may be short-lived, but rising wages, particularly in China, signal the start of a structural shift.
Rising property prices caused further problems for policymakers in the mainland, as well as in Hong Kong and Singapore.
While India has raised benchmark interest rates to contain price increases, China Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 5 Chairmans Statement continued used other measures, such as raising the amount of capital base and expects to report on progress at the Annual General lenders were required to hold in reserve, along with stricter Meeting on 8 December 2010. rules for property purchases.
Revenue Account Against this backdrop, your Company posted a good The revenue return per share was 2.62p, compared to 2.31p performance though it should be noted that sterling in the previous year.
The Board recommends the payment of weakness against most Asian currencies accounted for 9.4% a final dividend of 1.90p per Ordinary share which, if of these returns, in part reflecting the strength of the regions approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, economies relative to that of the UK.
Notable among the will be paid on 10 December 2010. holdings that contributed most to Edinburgh Dragons outperformance were Jardine Strategic, Unilever Indonesia The Board and Indias Housing Development Finance Corp, companies In line with Edinburgh Dragon's strong commitment to its whose businesses are aligned with the structural rise of the corporate governance responsibilities, the Board regularly wealth of Asias middle class.
reviews its performance and structure to ensure it has the correct mix of relevant skills and experience for the good It should also be noted that the Indian market outperformed conduct of the Company's business.
As part of this process Chinas by a significant margin over the period, despite the the Board was pleased to appoint Iain McLaren, a former latters higher growth trajectory.
Though some of this can be senior partner of KPMG, as a non-executive director of the attributed to Chinas tighter monetary stance, Indias more Company on 6 September 2010.
Iain will stand for election market-driven economy enables its companies to more at the Annual General Meeting.
After many years of valuable effectively translate top line growth into sustainable growth service to the Board of Edinburgh Dragon, Peter Tyrie will be at the bottom line.
The Board joins me in thanking Peter for his valuable contribution to the success of the Discount Company over many years.
The Board monitors closely the discount level of the Companys shares and has in place a buyback mechanism The coming years will see an ongoing refreshment of the whereby the Manager is authorised to buy back shares within Board as highlighted in the 2009 annual report.
In December 2009, the Company announced a Tender Offer for up to 15% of the Ordinary shares of the In accordance with the corporate governance procedures Company at a discount of 3 per cent.
to Formula Asset endorsed by the Board, all Directors who have attained more Value.
As a result some 34,643,156 Ordinary shares were than nine years service will retire from the Board and submit bought back at the Repurchase Price of 197.2794 pence per themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
Messrs Frame share and subsequently cancelled.
and Watt will retire and be proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Companys Following the implementation of the Tender Offer, the Articles of Association, Mr Lowrie will retire from the Board Company had 196,311,219 shares in issue.
There were no and will offer himself for re-election at the Annual General further buy-backs of shares during the financial year and Meeting.
The Board recommends that shareholders vote in there have been no buy-backs subsequent to the year end.
favour of the re-election of these Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board believes the authority to buy-back shares for cancellation should remain in place and, accordingly, a Ongoing management of the Company resolution to renew the authority to buy-back shares for As announced in the interim report, the Board agreed a cancellation will be proposed at this year's Annual General succession plan with the Manager following the departure of Meeting.
Peter Hames which resulted in the appointment of Andrew Gillan as the named manager and Adrian Lim as his deputy.
Gearing Both Andrew and Adrian have been with Aberdeen in the Far During the year the Company had a gearing facility in place East region for nine years and have considerable experience via a 40 million multi-currency loan facility with the Royal of the region and working with investment trusts.
No drawdowns were made on the facility during the financial year and this facility expired at the end The Board recognises the proven strength of Aberdeens of September 2010.
The Board is supportive of gearing and collective, team-based, investment approach over many further gearing options are currently under consideration, years and many market cycles.
Extensive and regular including the possibility of extending the Companys capital company contact is at the heart of their investment process.
They never invest in a company without having first met the 6 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc management.
Company visits are rotated among the Asian among them the ability to extend stimulus measures further equity investment management team of over 30 investment in the event that the global economic recovery stalls.
professionals, led by Hugh Young.
Despite the run-up in equity markets, your Manager believes that valuations in Asia are still reasonable and remains comfortable with the Companys existing holdings.
As such, AIFM Directive Edinburgh Dragon will continue to seek out and invest in We continue to monitor developments closely with regard to companies that will profit from Asias domestic-oriented the above proposed piece of European legislation sometimes growth.
wrongly called the Hedge Fund Directive.
It was feared that this may have a significant impact upon the way that investment trusts operate.
There has been much lobbying on behalf of the industry, led by the Association of Investment Companies, and I am hopeful that the major causes of concern are now understood by the legislators and that changes in the final draft will reflect them.
It is too early to be complacent, however, and we await the much delayed For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc decision from Europe.
Allan McKenzie Chairman Annual General Meeting 14 October 2010 The venue and format of this years Annual General Meeting has been changed from previous years.
The meeting will be held at Aberdeens London office on Wednesday 8 December at 12.00 noon followed by a lunch for shareholders.
This will give shareholders the opportunity to meet the Directors and Manager after the formal AGM business has concluded and we welcome all shareholders to attend.
Going forward the intention is to rotate the AGM between Edinburgh and London in successive years.
Outlook Looking ahead, Asian stockmarkets are likely to remain volatile in the short term.
This is because fund flows into Asia remain very much linked to what is happening in Western financial markets, despite the significant strides Asian economies have made to decouple from developed ones.
Nevertheless, the region still faces several challenges.
Inflationary pressures are rising in tandem with the fast pace of economic growth.
Governments and their central banks may be forced to shift away from exchange rate-based policies, under which monetary policy is effectively imported from major developed world trading partners, to policies which better reflect the strong economic realities in their own countries.
In particular, Chinas policy-induced slowdown may prove to be a drag on the entire region, as trade links with the mainland have grown substantially as demand from the more traditional export markets in the West has waned.
Furthermore, countries in the region continue to link their currencies to Western currencies to varying degrees, even as their growth paths diverge.
That said, Asia is not encumbered by the same structural problems as the debt-laden developed world.
After a decade of austerity, large reserves of foreign exchange and solid fiscal foundations give policymakers a panoply of options, Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 7
