L15825 Edinburgh pp01 14 2 6 10 4:54 pm Page 06 06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Introduction It is now more than eighteen months since management of the Companys investments was transferred to Invesco Perpetual Invesco where Neil Woodford is the manager with prime responsibility for the portfolio.
At the time of transfer to Invesco I advised shareholders that Mr Woodfords approach was to work to a longer time horizon than most of his competitors and to invest in stocks and sectors compatible with his view on future economic trends.
Mr Woodford and his colleagues at Invesco have for some time taken the stance, of which the Board continues to be supportive, that expectations of recovery in UK and global economies are premature and that the most appropriate investments are defensive ones.
Accordingly the Companys portfolio consists of companies which the Manager believes will be resilient to further economic stress and have good potential to sustain earnings and dividends.
The UK Equity Market Investor optimism in future trends in global economies drove equity markets higher, and the UK equity market performed very strongly in the year to 31 March 2010, albeit the rate of growth was much less in the second half of the year than it was in the first.
Over the year as a whole the FTSE-All Share Index the Index rose by 46.7%, with particular strength seen in stocks and sectors most exposed to potential recovery in the economic cycle.
Company Performance Capital: The Companys defensive portfolio positioning, as at the interim stage, was at variance with the markets broad direction.
Although the Companys Net Asset Value NAV achieved a good absolute performance, increasing over the year by 35.9% debt at market value and 29.2% debt at par this was significantly weaker than the 46.7% growth in the benchmark Index.
The Manager used virtually all the Companys gearing throughout the year: this added to returns in the strong market environment.
On the other hand year-end NAV was reduced by about 1% due to early payment of the third interim dividend.
Income: The defensive nature of the portfolio has been reflected in a flow of dividends within the portfolio only marginally less than in the previous year this compares with a fall in dividends of 15% in the same period from the constituents of the Index, as a whole.
Shareholders Return: The Companys share price rose during the year by 35.5%: the discount to NAV debt at market value being negligible at both the beginning and end of the year under review.
Total return combining capital growth and income in the year to 31 March was 46% debt at market value or 38% debt at par.
The equivalent return from the Index was 52.3%.
Company Dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.35 pence per share which, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 30 July 2010 to shareholders on the Companys register on 18 June 2010.
If this dividend is approved by shareholders, total payments in the year to 31 March 2010 will be 20.6 pence per share an increase of 1% from last year.
This is obviously less than the 4.4% increase in RPI in the equivalent period.
This years payment, if endorsed, is marginally more than the Companys net earnings per share and will involve the transfer of about 1.53 million from Revenue Reserves.
The Board believes that this transfer which represents 4% of the total available such reserves is fully justifiable given its confidence in the portfolios future capacity for dividend payments.
VAT I informed shareholders a year ago that following the Investment Trust movements successful challenge to HMRC, the Company had received repayment of VAT due from its previous manager, Fidelity International.
I also explained that similar payments were due for the periods 1990-96 and 2001-02 from Aberdeen Asset Management successors to Edinburgh Fund Managers.
I am pleased to report that the Company has now received 963,000 in respect of the later period this sum has been allocated to capital and income in the same proportion as originally made.
A further small interest payment for 2001-02 remains due, as does a potentially larger sum from 1990-96, representing both VAT and interest.
It is likely to be some time until this matter is fully resolved.
L15825 Edinburgh pp01 14 2 6 10 4:54 pm Page 07 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 Board Composition The Board has been unchanged now for a number of years, and whilst this stability continues to be beneficial following the change in Manager, the need is recognised to plan for recruitment of fresh blood.
As regards my own position, I have agreed with colleagues that subject to shareholder endorsement at this years Annual General Meeting, I shall serve one further year and retire after the Annual Meeting in 2011.
Richard Barfield, Senior Independent Director, will lead the process to identify and recruit my successor in good time to ensure a smooth transition.
Outlook Since the Companys year-end on 31 March, increasing concerns about a number of economies in the EU and elsewhere have precipitated widespread falls in global equity markets.
Within the UK, the new Government is committed to cut public spending more quickly than was earlier anticipated, with clear implications for the domestic economy.
Against this background, the Manager sees no reason to change the positioning of his investments which he believes have the capacity to demonstrate earnings and dividend growth, even in an adverse climate.
The Board accepts that the underlying portfolio with its defensive stance and high stock and sector concentration may lag the Index in the event that economic recovery is stronger than expected.
On the other hand, the Companys investments should provide resilience in the face of weak economies, and in the long term they have considerable potential to outperform.
