2010 RA 1-19 final:Layout 1 14 12 10 15:22 Page 3 Chairmans Statement Overview This has been a strong year for Electra.
Portfolio performance has been excellent, in marked contrast to the previous year when the operating environment for many of our portfolio companies was very challenging.
The improvement has been achieved through a good set of realisations, several of which were of recently acquired investments, and as a result of a number of valuation increases of existing portfolio companies.
Results At 30 September 2010 Electras net asset value per share had reached an all time high of 2,050p compared with 1,720p at 30 September 2009, an increase of 19.2% compared to a FTSE All-Share increase of 8.8%.
Over the five years to 30 September 2010, the net asset value per share, inclusive of Special Dividends, has increased by 76.4% and Electra has achieved an annualised return on equity of 12.3%.
Over the year Electras share price broadly tracked the movement in the FTSE All-Share Index, increasing by 11.8%.
Investment Activity There are now positive indications that market conditions are beginning to improve.
In the first half of 2010, the overhang of private equity funds in the market generally meant that high quality investment opportunities were attracting many potential buyers with the result that full prices were being paid.
This overhang has begun to recede in recent months and there has been an increase in the number of potential transactions which our Manager, Electra Partners, is prepared to consider.
During the year Electra Partners considered 147 investment opportunities 2009: 139, bid on 16 possible transactions 2009: 14.
Of the 183 million invested during the year 2009: 88 million 107 million was in bolt-on acquisitions to existing investments and the remaining 76 million was invested in new portfolio companies.
Of the deals completed, 55.8 million was in respect of BDR Thermea, which resulted from the combining of Baxi and fide Dietrich Remeha, 23.6 million was to fund a bolt-on acquisition by Premier Asset Management and 17.3 million was to aid the ongoing investment programme of Rio Trens Corporation a company which holds the concession to operate a Brazilian transportation company.
New portfolio investments included 29.7 million in esure, an online motor and home insurer, 13.9 million in CPA Global, a patent renewal and legal services outsourcer, and 9 million in Kalle, the global manufacturer of artificial sausage casings and sponge cloths.
During the year 125 million was received from the sale of investments, a significant increase from the previous years total of 27 million.
Of this amount, 40.6 million, exclusive of accrued interest, was in respect of Baxi, 34.4 million resulted from the sale of MPS, the abattoir equipment manufacturer, 21.6 million, inclusive of income, related to our secondary debt fund, Credit Opportunities and 12.3 million was received from the sale of our investment in Thermocoax the specialist engineering products manufacturer.
In addition, 6.5 million was received from the sale of a number of quoted investments during the year.
Subsequent to the year end, Electra realised its investment in Rio Trens Corporation receiving proceeds of 54 million.
Convertible Bond Issue At 30 September 2010 Electra had net liquid resources of 48 million: however when the ZDP liability is considered, Electra had 2 million of net long term gearing.
The Board believes this is an opportune time to seek additional resources to capitalise on current market opportunities and has separately announced today a proposed placing and open offer of up to 100 million of convertible bonds.
The new money raised will enable Electra Partners to target a number of investment opportunities, including bolton acquisitions, capital for restructuring, private equity into public company transactions, secondary investments and development capital.
The proposed placing needs shareholder approval and so a General Meeting has been called for 23 December 2010.
Further details can be found in the separate announcement made today and in the Prospectus which will be posted to shareholders shortly.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 Overview Financial Highlights Chairmans Statement 2010 RA 1-19 final:Layout 1 14 12 10 15:22 Page 4 Overview Share Capital During the year ended 30 September 2010 no shares were purchased for cancellation.
The Board considers that purchases of shares for cancellation will continue to be less likely in the medium term in view of the number of attractive investment opportunities and the need to fund the future redemption of the ZDP shares issued by Electras subsidiary.
However, shareholders authority will again be sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to allow up to 14.99% of the shares in issue to be purchased for cancellation if the Directors believe this will be in the best interests of shareholders.
Dividend No dividend is being declared for the year year ended 30 September 2009: Nil and I would remind shareholders that it is the Companys policy only to pay a dividend to the extent required to maintain investment trust status.
Board Changes Sir Brian Williamson, who joined Electra in 1994, retired on 24 May.
During his 16 years on the Board, the last ten of which as Chairman, Sir Brian showed great dedication to Electra and to listed private equity as a whole: we are fortunate to have worked with someone of his stature and City experience.
The Board would like to pay tribute to his contribution, commitment, and leadership of Electra over many years.
Ron Armstrong and Peter Williams, who have both been directors of the Company since 1994, will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will not be seeking re-election as Directors.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank both Ron and Peter for their significant contribution to the Board over many years and for their wise counsel and support.
They will both be missed and we wish them well.
Roger Perkin joined the Board on 24 November 2009 and took the Chair of the Audit Committee in February 2010.
Roger is a former Senior Partner at Ernst & Young.
Most recently, Kate Barker joined the Board on 1 November 2010.
Kate was, until May this year, a member of the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England, on which she served for three terms.
Outlook For the last 35 years, our flexible investment strategy has enabled us to invest across all sectors and capital structures.
This has allowed Electra to provide shareholders with access to a highly diversified private equity portfolio - all for the price of a share.
It is this same strategy that will help Electra continue to deliver superior returns in the long term as we take advantage of the opportunities ahead.
Dr Colette Bowe Chairman 29 November 2010 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 4
