02 03 Malcolm Harris Chairmans statement The Group has made good progress having successfully delivered on the strategies set out for 2010 Malcolm Harris | Chairman Malcolm Harris Chairmans statement Bovis Homes is pleased to report on a successful year in The Group achieved an operating margin of 7.2% in 2010, 2010 with strong improvement in profits and earnings and ahead of the prior years 6.2% pre exceptional items.
with significant progress in the acquisition of high quality Pricing improvements combined with build cost savings led consented land.
Importantly, the Group operated successfully to an increase in gross margin.
This was partially offset by an and grew its business without reliance on improving general increase in the ratio of overheads to revenue year on year.
The Groups performance during 2010 The Groups net assets increased from 692.6 million at was particularly positive given the continuation of challenging the start of 2010 to 710.8 million at 31 December 2010, conditions within the UK housing market, with the constrained equating to a net asset value of 5.33 per share.
As at level of high loan to value mortgage finance available to new 31 December 2010, the Group had net cash of 52 million.
build customers, many of whom have limited deposit funding.
The Group generated operating cash inflows of 93 million The Group legally completed a greater number of home sales before land expenditure of 137 million, leaving the Group during the year and, in respect of private homes, increased the well positioned to continue its value enhancing investments average sales price achieved, reduced the average construction in high quality land.
cost and hence improved the average profit generated per Dividend private home by 13%.
These achievements have contributed to In the light of the sustained improvement in the performance the strong increase in pre tax profits.
of the Group and the Boards confidence in the Groups growth strategy, the Board has proposed a full year dividend The Groups strategy is to increase investment in quality of 3.0p per share.
This is equivalent to an interim dividend residential land in order to grow sales outlets and thus volume, of 1.0p per share and a final dividend of 2.0p per share, had revenues and margins.
The Group has been successful with both an interim and a final dividend been declared in 2010. land investment in 2010 with the addition of c3,700 high In future years the Board expects to grow dividends quality consented plots to the land bank.
These additions have progressively, as earnings per share increase.
enhanced the gross profit potential in the land bank.
The Group is well positioned for profitable growth into the future.
The Board During 2010, Neil Cooper, the Group Finance Director, left Results the Group in order to take up the position of Group Finance For the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group generated Director at William Hill PLC.
The Board would like to thank Neil 298.6 million of revenue from the legal completion of 1,901 for his significant contribution to the Board and to the robust homes, as compared to revenues of 281.5 million in 2009 performance achieved by the Group through an extremely from 1,803 legal completions.
The Board would also like to thank Lesley The Group delivered a pre-tax profit of 18.5 million in 2010 MacDonagh, who stepped down as a non executive director at 2009: 7.5 million pre exceptional charges and 4.8 million the last AGM, for her contribution to the success of the Group post exceptional charges with basic earnings per share at since 2003.
10.6p 2009: 4.4p per share pre exceptional charges and 2.8p On 23 August 2010 Jonathan Hill joined as Group Finance per share post exceptional charges.
There were no exceptional Director and became a member of the Board on that date.
items for 2010 2009 exceptional charge: 2.7 million.
Jonathan joined Bovis Homes from TUI Travel Group and brings considerable experience and expertise to his new role.
04 05 continued Employees Based on the continuation of current market conditions, the After a challenging but rewarding year, the Group would Group is confident in its ability to grow in 2011 and increase like to thank all of its employees for their hard work and profits, supported by the contribution from new sites.
commitment during 2010, a year during which the Group Additionally, the Group has the financial capability to continue made good progress in improving the profitability of the its consented land acquisition strategy, enabling it to grow business and undertook significant investment in land to further its output capacity.
Finally the Group will selectively enable the business to grow in the future.
The Group would sell consented land on some of the Groups larger sites also like to thanks its suppliers and sub-contractors for their thus contributing to the funding of new land acquisitions.
efforts and hard work during the year.
Together these actions will create strong foundations for the Group to create value for our shareholders into the future.
Market conditions and prospects The housing market continued to suffer in 2010 from a lack of mortgage availability at the level of loan to value ratios Malcolm Harris required by first time buyers, which has constrained demand Chairman for new build homes, many of which are small and affordable, targeted at the first time buyer market.
Monthly mortgage approval levels appear to have stabilised during 2010, but at levels representative of less than half of a normal market.
In tackling the issue of the lack of availability of high loan to value mortgages, the Group has launched Perfect 10, a 90% loan to value mortgage product with Barclays Bank, exclusive to the Group.
The Group will continue to find innovative ways to enable its customers to access appropriate mortgage finance.
After having made some positive progress in H1 2010, the Groups sales prices stabilised during H2 2010.
Although the market remains challenging and customer confidence and commitment levels remain subdued, the Group currently believes that the pricing environment will be stable for 2011 as a whole.
A limited supply of homes for sale will not satisfy demand from purchasers.
However, buyers are likely to remain constrained by mortgage availability and continue to struggle to raise finance.
It is anticipated that sales prices will be more robust in the south of England compared to the north of England, which will assist the Group given its southern bias of sites.
