15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 3 F&C Asset Management Business Review 03 Welcome from the Chairman This is my first statement as Chairman having been appointed to Conclusion the role following my election as a Director at the General Meeting It is a privilege to have been appointed as Chairman of F&C.
The Group has a strong brand, dedicated professionals and many At the same General Meeting Ian Brindle and Derham ONeill were other strengths.
However, these have not been reflected in its share also elected to the Board while Nick MacAndrew, the previous price and financial performance in recent years.
By accelerating Chairman, and Brian Larcombe ceased to be Directors.
Separately, momentum in things that are working well and creating greater Gerhard Roggemann has indicated his intention to retire as a long-term focus on those areas that will generate the most value, Director at the Annual General Meeting in May.
the prospects for F&C are excellent.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our thanks to I look forward to working with the Board, management team and Messrs. MacAndrew, Larcombe and Roggemann for their service staff to develop the strategy and operational plan for the business to F&C over a number of years.
so that F&C reaches its full potential.
In the brief period since becoming Chairman of F&C, I have met a significant number of staff from across the Group, including portfolio managers at Thames River and F&C REIT.
I have been impressed with the calibre of people I have met and, in particular, the strong sense of commitment to clients.
This reinforces my confidence in F&Cs prospects because asset management is without doubt a Edward Bramson people business and the Group possesses a strong reservoir of Chairman talented professionals who want F&C to be successful.
9 March 2011 Important progress has been achieved in a number of areas in laying solid foundations for a turnaround in F&Cs fortunes.
In particular, three year investment performance track records are competitive and 2010 saw encouraging trends in funds flows.
Further detail on developments during 2010 is provided in the Chief Executives report.
Our focus now is to build on the things that work well at F&C and to improve the Groups financial performance, which will create value for shareholders.
Working with the Executive Management team, the Board has therefore embarked on a review of strategy.
We will endeavour to minimise the time required for this process consistent with producing the right long-term plan for F&C.
In the meantime, it will be business as usual for our investment professionals and client servicing teams.
Results and Dividend The Groups underlying profit after tax excluding foreign exchange gains and losses was 29.4 million compared to 28.3 million in 2009.
This represents underlying earnings per share of 5.9 pence for 2010 and 5.8 pence for 2009.
On a statutory reporting basis, which includes exceptional and non-cash items, the Group made a loss after tax of 13.4 million, compared to a profit after tax of 18.7 million in 2009.
This represents a basic loss per share of 3.3 pence compared to earnings per share of 3.2 pence in the previous year.
After considering the results for the year and consistent with the decision to rebase the interim dividend, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share, payable on 27 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at 1 April 2011.
This brings full-year dividends to 3.0 pence per share.
The Boards dividend policy is to achieve dividend cover of at least 150 per cent.
of underlying earnings per share.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
