Chairmans Statement Humphrey van der Klugt Chairman I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report of companies, which benefited from a strong rally towards Fidelity European Values PLC for the year ended the end of the year.
31 December 2010, my first as Chairman.
A detailed review of the performance of the portfolio is PERFORMANCE provided in the Managers Review.
All figures are in In 2010, global economic growth rebounded, following sterling and are on a total return basis.
the end of a deep recession in the advanced economies, whilst China and India continued to expand at a rapid DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT pace.
In Europe, there was a divergence between the The Board remains active in discount management, stronger so-called core economies such as Germany, including buying back shares at a discount.
This is a which benefited from a weaker euro and strong practice it has adopted since launch and buybacks have consumption in Asia, and the peripheral countries, continued during the year.
The purpose of this is to which were encumbered by debt issues.
Indeed, equity reduce share price volatility and it also results in an market performance in Europe proved volatile, as the enhancement to the NAV per share.
Further details of focus of attention turned to the sovereign risk crisis and share buybacks made during the year may be found in its impact on Eurozone economies and the euro itself.
the Directors Report on page 20.
Against this backdrop, the net asset value NAV per It is disappointing to note that the level of discount has share of the Company increased by 7.1%, outperforming nonetheless widened over the year, causing the share its benchmark, the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, price return to lag the NAV return.
Indeed, the share which rose by 5.1%.
Overall, companies with exposure price showed a small decline over the period.
To some to emerging markets performed well, whereas those in extent this is because continental European equity the financial sector struggled.
Selecting financials with markets have been out of fashion with investors, capital stronger balance sheets whilst avoiding commercial having flowed more towards emerging markets.
I can banks which came under particular pressure helped assure you it is a situation which the Board continues to returns for the portfolio.
In addition, exposure to monitor carefully.
selected basic materials companies, particularly in the chemicals sector, also proved positive.
Returns were held back by a lack of exposure to industrial cyclical Performance over one year, five years and since launch to 31 December 2010 on a total return basis NAV Share price FTSE World Europe ex UK Index One year 7.1% -1.3% 5.1% Five years 31.0% 7.9% 29.8% Since launch 1991 1,447.0% 1,194.3% 474.5% Source: Fidelity and Datastream as at 31 December 2010 Basis: bid-bid with net income reinvested Past performance is not a guide to future returns Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 3 Chairmans Statement DIVIDENDS Shareholders will have received a circular with the Annual The Board intends to continue with its practice of paying Report detailing the Boards recommendation to change out earnings in full.
The objective is one of long term the Companys investment policy to permit the use of capital growth and we will not seek to influence the Contracts for Difference CFDs for gearing purposes.
Manager to determine the level of income of your Companys portfolio in any particular year.
A full explanation is provided in the circular.
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders for The Board has decided to recommend a final the Company to continue to have the ability to employ dividend of 15.75 pence per share for the year ended gearing.
The ability to use CFDs will increase gearing 31 December 2010 2009: final dividend nil: interim flexibility and add to the range of options available to dividend of 22.50 pence.
This dividend will be payable the Board and FIL Investments International.
on 27 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 18 March 2011 ex-dividend date We continue to monitor and review the Companys 16 March 2011. gearing level, which currently stands at 8%, reflecting the broadly positive view of the Manager towards The decrease in the level of income and thus the opportunities in European equities, fully endorsed by dividend payment in comparison to last year is a function your Board.
of stock selection, but it is important to note that the NAV return has been positive and ahead of its DIRECTORATE benchmark.
Following the Annual General Meeting held on 18 May 2010, Robert Walther, who had been a Director of the PORTFOLIO MANAGER Company since launch and Chairman for nine years, During the year, we announced that Sam Morse would retired.
We are grateful to Robert for the strong take over management of the portfolio with effect from leadership he provided and his sound judgement over 1 January 2011.
Sam replaces Sudipto Banerji who was the many years of his involvement in your Company.
appointed to new portfolio management responsibilities within Fidelitys global equity team.
I was appointed Chairman and James Robinson was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior With more than 20 years of successful investment Independent Director with effect from that date.
As experience, I am sure that Sam Morse will build on the previously detailed, Robin Niblett was appointed a hard work of Sudipto Banerji.
Sam follows a strong stock Director on 14 January 2010 following a search using an selection process which the Board believes is closely external agency and was duly re-elected at the Annual aligned to what shareholders expect from their General Meeting.
We hope that further improved performance and signs of better sentiment Simon Fraser is subject to annual re-election under the towards continental European equities will also be Listing Rules due to his recent employment relationship reflected in a narrowing of the discount level.
with the Manager and his directorship of another investment trust managed by Fidelity, namely Fidelity Sams investment approach is focused on generating Japanese Values PLC.
The Board is convinced that long term outperformance, in particular through Simon Frasers experience serves the Company well, and investment in companies with the prospect of continuing the Directors voted unanimously that he should remain a dividend growth, positive fundamentals, cash Director when he left the employment of Fidelity.
generation, a robust balance sheet and an attractive valuation.
As such, his method is closely aligned with the The Board supports the proposal in the new UK Companys objective.
Corporate Governance Code for Directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual re-election.
The The Board watched Sams success in transferring his Board has therefore decided to introduce such annual approach from the management of UK equities to the re-elections at this years Annual General Meeting, a year Fidelity European Fund and, as a result, considered this ahead of the proposed schedule.
As detailed in the to be a good opportunity to bring both the open and biographies on pages 14 and 15 the Directors have a closed-ended European vehicles under the same wide range of appropriate skills and experience to make Portfolio Manager.
This mirrors the management up a balanced Board for your Company.
With the responsibilities during the tenures of both Anthony exception of Simon Fraser, all other Directors are totally Bolton 1991-2001 and Tim McCarron 2001-2008. independent.
INVESTMENT POLICY The Board has considered the proposal for the reThe broad thrust of investment policy continues without election of all of the Directors and recommends to significant change.
This being said, the Board is always shareholders that they vote in favour of the proposals.
looking for new ways of enhancing the way in which your Company operates.
Page 4 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Chairmans Statement CONTINUATION VOTE In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, an ordinary resolution that the Company continue as an investment trust for a further two years was passed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
A further continuation vote will take place at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Companys performance record has been excellent since launch with a NAV increase of 1,447.0% compared to an increase in the benchmark Index of 474.5%.
During the past 12 months the Companys NAV has outperformed the Index by 2% and is also ahead of the Index over 3, 5 and 10 years.
Therefore your Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the continuation vote.
A further continuation vote will take place at the Annual General Meeting in 2013.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company is due to take place on 18 May 2011 at midday at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 54 to 56 and I look forward to talking with as many shareholders as possible at this occasion.
CONCLUSION Investment markets will have to contend with a wide range of complex factors in 2011, not least, now, political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and increasing inflationary pressures, induced largely by rising commodity prices.
In addition, peripheral Eurozone economies will most likely face growth headwinds in the coming year, due to austerity measures introduced by their governments.
However, the more stable core Eurozone economies, including Germany, continue to benefit from the global recovery and are even now seeing signs of improving domestic confidence.
With global economic growth forecasts remaining positive and, we hope, the political will to tackle the sovereign debt issues in Europe, the future looks reasonably bright for continental European equities.
Equity valuations in the region continue to be attractive and companies are in a more robust financial position than a year ago, giving rise to good stock picking opportunities.
Humphrey van der Klugt Chairman 7 March 2011 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 5
