BACK TO CONTENTS Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that the Group has had another successful year which is very satisfying in view of the economic uncertainty both in the UK and indeed globally.
Profit before tax increased by 18% from existing clients.
Our staff remain our most Our sta remain our most 73.1 million to 86.3 million, and turnover important asset and everything we do would important asset and everything increased by 20% from 132.8 million to not be possible without their hard work and 159.0 million.
Our percentage of revenue commitment.
we do would not be possible which is recurring in nature i. e. renewal without their hard work and income, management fees and interest rose Oces slightly to 72% compared to 70% for the commitment.
previous year, driven by the significant On 15 February 2010, we successfully increase in assets under administration moved into our new offices, One College which in turn has driven renewal income Square South, Bristol: the culmination of and management fees.
many months of hard work by a number of our staff.
The new working environment is of Operating costs continue to be well a high quality, befitting of one of the larger controlled allowing our adjusted operating employers in the city.
profit margin to increase from 53.6% to 56.5%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share Board changes have risen by 23% to 13.9 pence compared to 11.3 pence for 2009.
Over the course of the year there has been a The Board is proposing a final lot of focus on ensuring an orderly process of During the year our assets under senior management succession as the ordinary dividend of 0.58 pence administration increased from 11.9 billion Company enters the next stage of its 2009: 4.229p and a special to 17.5 billion.
As a result, a number of of assets under our own management.
Total changes have now been made to the dividend of 1.7 pence 2009: assets under administration increased by membership of the Board.
2.807p 47% compared to an increase in the FTSE All-Share index of 17%.
As had previously been announced, Stephen Lansdown stepped down as Chairman on 1 Dividend December 2009 and it was a great honour for me to become non-executive Chairman The performance of the Group has allowed the same day.
Having overseen the us to propose a final ordinary dividend of successful office move, Stephen focused on 0.58 pence per share increasing the total providing support and challenge to all parts ordinary dividends up to 8.58 pence per of the business before taking a sabbatical in share for the year.
This total dividend the summer months.
The Board has agreed payout equates to 65% of post tax profits.
with Stephen that the most appropriate way to provide ongoing challenge and support is As in previous periods we have reviewed our as a non-executive director.
Therefore on 26 cash requirements going forward and are August 2010 he stepped down as an Total dividends have pleased to propose a special dividend of 1.70 executive director and was appointed as a increased by 18% pence per share.
This equates to a further non-executive director although due to his 25% of post tax profits when the special previous executive role we accept that we interim dividend of 1.6 pence per share is cannot deem him to be independent.
2010: 11.88 pence added and this takes the total dividend 2009: 10.101 pence payout for the year to 11.88 pence per share.
Ian Gorham joined the business in We remind shareholders that any special September 2009 as Chief Operating Officer.
dividend in future years will depend upon He very quickly demonstrated his our future cash requirements and therefore capabilities and we recognised his potential may vary.
to be a future leader of the business.
Peter Hargreaves had indicated his desire to step Sta down as Chief Executive at the appropriate time, but remain heavily involved in the Hargreaves Lansdown is in business to help business.
Therefore on 26 August 2010, we clients make more of their money by were delighted to confirm the appointment providing the best information, the best of Ian Gorham as an executive director, a few service and the best prices.
We have days before taking on the position of Chief continued to attract new clients and retain Executive.
5 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 BACK TO CONTENTS Chairmans Statement Earlier in the year, to bring more balance to oriented, public listed company.
I would like conditions that the RDR is intended to the Board, the Nominations Committee to thank them both for their enormous introduce.
We will continue however to be decided to appoint a further non-executive contribution to the Company and am vigilant in monitoring the impact of the new director.
Rather than engage a firm of delighted that they will continue to provide proposed regime for platforms as more details headhunters, it was decided that we would guidance to the Company in their respective emerge.
The new Coalition Government has advertise the position to a subset of our new roles.
announced changes to the Financial Services clients.
An initial mailing of some 8,000 Authority and this will have an impact on clients resulted in approximately 150 high During the year, Simon Power decided to how we are regulated in the future and we quality applications.
Following the selection step down as Company Secretary to focus on need to watch this very carefully.
criteria laid down by the Nominations his role within the Finance team.
I would like Committee, and after two rounds of to thank Simon for his valued work during Conclusion interviews, we were delighted to appoint his time as Company Secretary.
On 30 March Chris Barling to the Board on 26 August 2010, we were delighted to appoint Judy Peter Hargreaves in his Chief Executive report 2010.
Chris is currently CEO of Actinic, a Matthews as the new Company Secretary.
has highlighted the performance of the Group privately owned software company.
We and the outlook for the future.
The Board of believe Chris extensive IT experience will Regulation directors, together with the Executive bring greater breadth of skills to the Board.
Committee, has operated efficiently and The final details of the Retail Distribution diligently during the year and I would like to These appointments mean we now have a Review should be issued by the Financial thank all my fellow directors for their Board of eight directors, of whom three are Services Authority in the autumn of this year, contribution.
Our trading performance executives, four are non-executives, and following a consultation paper issued in demonstrates the resilience of our business myself as non-executive Chairman.
We March 2010 which focused specifically on model.
The continued development of our believe it is a strong board to support the platforms such as our Vantage service.
This Board, Executive Committee and subsidiary new Chief Executive, and importantly retains contained some proposals that may Boards illustrates the strength and depth of the ongoing input of the two founders who necessitate significant change for our the management team and the robustness of remain the largest shareholders in the industry.
We have sought to make our views our corporate governance.
known through this consultation process and await the final outcome with interest.
We Peter Hargreaves and Stephen Lansdown believe our business has little to fear from founded this great company way back in sensible regulatory change and indeed is well Michael Evans 1981 and have personally overseen its placed to take advantage of the more Chairman development into a highly profitable, client transparent and competitive market 8 September 2010 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 6
