CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The macroeconomic and stock market background was more benign in 2010.
This was reflected in a continued recovery in the Companys market value and the net asset value NAV per share grew 41.2%, comfortably ahead of any relevant index.
The UK, which still accounts for the majority of the portfolio, had a total return of 42.4%.
In comparison, the FTSE Small Cap index had a total return of 19.9%, and the FTSE 100 of 13.1%.
The US portfolio performed even better with a $ return of 47.5%.
This compares with the NASDAQ rising 18.2% and the Russell 2000 Technology Index rising 37.4%.
The exchange rate enhanced these returns to 52.6% in.
The local currency return in Europe was a more modest 20.9%, 17.8% in sterling, but the Companys European exposure is now very modest.
The Far East returned 15.6% in local currencies significantly enhanced by currency 27.5% in.
This lower return is consistent with the Managers cautious weighting: the Taiwanese stock exchange Electronics index and the KOSDAQ IT index were relatively flat in local currencies.
In spite of the robust growth in NAV per share of 41.2%, the valuation of the portfolio is similar to last year in p e terms illustrating the robust underlying growth in profits.
This is somewhat higher than the long term growth rate and reflects a recovery in profits in certain companies that had been adversely impacted by the recession in 2009 and some of the funds raised through takeovers and profit taking giving the opportunity to reinvest on lower valuations.
Nevertheless it provides an encouragingly solid base for further growth in 2011.
It is interesting to observe that smaller companies have continued to outperform larger ones in the technology sector in 2010, and the UK and the US have significantly outperformed the Far East and Europe, and the wider indices.
The portfolio has been well positioned to exploit this.
It might be worth illustrating some long term figures to highlight the long term performance divergences.
Compound annual rate of return from inception and from full globalisation at the end of 1998 21 02 1994 31 12 1998 HIT NAV fully diluted 11.2% 9.4% HIT share price 10.4% 9.6% HIT UK capital 15.7% 15.1% HGSC capital 5.5% 7.4% Russell 2000 Technology 3.4% Taiwan Electronics total return 5.0% KOSDAQ IT total return 0.2% Source: HIML There are a number of interesting points to make.
Firstly the Companys NAV has compounded in capital terms since inception at 11.2% per annum.
The UK 15.7% per annum and European portfolios 13.9% per annum which were the Companys original focus, have compounded somewhat faster than this.
This is significantly ahead of the returns on the UK market as a whole and the various smaller companies indices and demonstrates that the UK has been, and the Manager believes will remain, a fertile area for investing in TMT stocks.
The satisfactory UK return has also been enabled by the opportunity to exploit the markets volatility.
In particular the Manager raised cash in 2000 but was a net investor in 2002, 2008 and 2009.
Whilst the fund has benefited from its specialist focus on the sector, which is now unique in the UK, the US portfolio has performed satisfactorily relative to US indices but lagged the UK.
The focus on the US, where trends emerge first, has also enabled greater returns in the UK.
The long term returns have been weaker elsewhere, which in part reflects a greater focus on the UK and US, but the asset allocation has correctly perceived the easier returns in the UK.
The Taiwanese electronics index has performed marginally better than the Russell 2000 Technology Index, but the KOSDAQ IT index in Korea much worse.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued It is pleasing to see that, as a consequence of the strength of the performance in the UK, over the long term the Company has outperformed all but one of the 87 surviving technology or TMT specialist funds managed in the US, UK and Europe since 31 December 1998, even in share price terms in spite of a wider discount.
This seems a fair starting point because it includes the period over which the Companys mandate has been fully global and includes the boom and ensuing bust of 1999- 2000, as well as the more recent financial turbulence.
Undoubtedly the Company has benefited from its closed end nature as an investment trust, which has avoided cash inflows at times of excess enthusiasm and avoided cash outflows in the market troughs, which would have led to assets being sold on a distressed basis.
The other closed end technology funds have also performed relatively well over the cycles.
Net income has been affected by the interest payable on the loan stock.
As a consequence, no dividend is proposed in respect of the year.
Whilst the structural imbalances in the world economy cast a continuing cloud, the sector should fare relatively well in a background of inflation or deflation.
Whilst investee company valuations are not as compelling as two years ago, they are attractive against the valuation of bonds and very modest versus the last time your Company had a NAV per share at this level in 2000.
The launch of the iPad in 2010, from which the portfolio has benefited, epitomises how innovation can drive new markets.
