HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Group Chairmans Statement its way through the worst financial crisis since the Group Chairmans Statement 1930s.
Mike led from the front in addressing the problems in our consumer finance subsidiary in the United States and in reshaping HSBCs organisational structure and operational practices in order to better and more efficiently serve an increasingly interconnected world.
Stephens personal reputation for integrity and probity stood out and distinguished HSBC during a period of intense disaffection with the banking industry.
For their contribution over many years we owe them a deep debt of gratitude and wish them both well.
Our performance in 2010 The Group Chief Executives business review sets out clearly how HSBC delivered a much improved balance of profits in 2010.
It is reassuring to see our Personal Financial Services businesses returning to profitability in aggregate and Commercial Banking growing significantly, largely in emerging markets.
When I took on the role of Chairman less than 90 These achievements augmented another year of days ago, I was acutely aware of the challenges strong performance in Global Banking and Markets.
I was conscious too of the need to demonstrate to all of our stakeholders that HSBC Earnings per share improved strongly, rising by understands the responsibilities that accompany the 115% to reach US$0.73 per share.
systemic significance which continued success has The Groups capital position also strengthened built for HSBC in many of the markets in which we with the core tier 1 ratio, the ratio most favoured by operate, not least those in Asia, given their historical regulators as it comprises equity capital after significance to the Group.
145 years after we were regulatory adjustments and deductions, increasing founded, Hong Kong and the rest of Asia remain at from 9.4% to 10.5%, largely due to profit retention the heart of HSBCs strength and identity and our throughout the year.
commitment to the region is unwavering.
As a consequence of this strong capital I fully acknowledge that our scale, the trust that generation, together with greater clarity on the our depositors place in us and our relevance to our direction of regulatory reform of capital personal and corporate clients for their financing, requirements and an improving economic backdrop banking, investment and risk management needs in the developed world particularly in the United all depend upon our maintaining our reputation and States the Board has approved increases in both the our integrity.
final dividend payment in respect of 2010 and the I also understand how important it is for you, planned quarterly dividends for 2011.
The final our shareholders, that HSBC builds sustainable longdividend for 2010, payable on 5 May 2011 to term value that is reflected through the share price shareholders on the register on 17 March 2011, will and rebuilds, as quickly as competing regulatory be 12 cents per ordinary share, up from 10 cents at demands allow, the dividend that was reduced during the same point last year.
For the remainder of 2011 the financial crisis.
we plan to pay quarterly dividends of nine cents for each of the first three quarters compared with eight I firmly believe that HSBC has the people, the cents in respect of the equivalent quarters of 2010. financial strength and the organisational structure best able to deliver all of the above and it is a A new leadership team privilege to have the opportunity to serve as Group Chairman as we enter a fresh chapter in our history.
We enter 2011 with a new leadership team, but only in the sense of changed roles.
Everyone has worked Before I go any further, I want to pay tribute to together over many years and there is immense both Stephen Green and Michael Geoghegan, who experience to draw on both from within HSBC and stepped down at the end of last year from their roles from earlier careers at peer organisations.
Stuart as Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive Gulliver is leading the management team as Group after, respectively, 28 and 37 years service to HSBC.
His clear objective is to deliver It fell to them to be at the helm as HSBC navigated 4 sustainable long-term value for shareholders will impact our targeted return on equity.
consistently in a manner that maintains the During 2011, the debate will be dominated by confidence of all other key stakeholders in our consideration of the calibration of minimum liquidity businesses including depositors, counterparties, standards.
Although it is clear that liquidity and long-term creditors, customers, employees, funding weaknesses were key elements contributing regulators and governments.
His review on pages 7 to the crisis, HSBC agrees with the industry consensus to 9 gives an insight into his immediate priorities.
that the revised requirements in these areas are Everything we do is governed by the imperative overly conservative and could lead to unnecessary of upholding HSBCs corporate reputation and deleveraging at a time of fragile economic recovery character at the highest level and adding further in much of the developed world.
It will be a near strength to our brand: we deeply regret that a number impossibility for the industry to expand business of weaknesses in regulatory compliance were lending at the same time as increasing the amount of highlighted in 2010 and we are resolved to remedy deposits deployed in government bonds while, for these and reinforce the high standards we demand of many banks but not HSBC, reducing dependency on ourselves.
central bank liquidity support arrangements.
It is to be hoped that the observation period, which starts For my part, I shall be focusing on engaging at this year and precedes the formal introduction of the the highest level in the regulatory reform debates new requirements, will inform a recalibration of that will, in large part, shape our future.
I shall also these minimum liquidity standards.
lead the Board in the stewardship and review of performance of our financial and human resources.
A second debate of importance to HSBCs shareholders in 2011 will concern the designation In the interest of full transparency, we have of Systemically Important Financial Institutions today published on our website the respective roles SIFIs.
Consideration is being given in the and responsibilities of the Group Chairman, the regulatory community to mandating higher capital Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director requirements, together with more intense and the Group Chief Executive.
supervision, for institutions classified as SIFIs.
We agree with heightened supervision but it is not clear Board changes that the reduced shareholder returns that would I have already paid tribute to the contributions of follow the imposition of incremental capital would Stephen Green and Michael Geoghegan.
Vincent be compensated for by improved stability.
Cheng has indicated that he will step down at the Classification as a SIFI with a requirement to hold incremental capital would, however, probably lead next AGM and on behalf of the Board I want to thank him for his immense contribution in many others to favour SIFIs as counterparties, and may roles over 33 years.
Vincent will retain an therefore have the unintended consequence of further association with the Group by taking on an advisory concentrating the industry.
role to the Group Chief Executive on regional HSBCs position is that systemic importance matters.
Laura Cha will join the Board on 1 March: should not be determined by size alone.
It is clear, Laura has been Deputy Chair of The Hongkong and however, that, on almost any basis, HSBC would be Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited for four classified as systemically important.
For this reason years and brings a wealth of experience of China: we are engaging fully in the debate around the fuller details of her background and experience are consequences of designation as a SIFI.
In particular, set out in the Directors Report.
we draw attention to the benefits of our corporate organisation through separate subsidiaries in Regulatory update mitigation against the imposition of incremental There was much progress made during 2010 on the capital for SIFIs based on size alone.
Although there is still a In October 2010, the UK government confirmed great deal to do, the shape of capital requirements its intention to raise the sum of 2.5bn US$3.9bn was broadly clarified and an implementation through a levy on bank balance sheets, and recently timetable stretching out to 2019 was agreed to allow announced it will accelerate the full impact of this time for the industry to adjust progressively.
We take no issue with the right of the minimum common equity tier 1 ratio of 7%, UK government to raise a levy on the banking including a capital conservation buffer, has been industry, particularly when having had to risk agreed.
HSBC already meets this threshold taxpayers money to rescue a number of important requirement.
The Group Chief Executives Business UK institutions.
However, as the proposed levy is to Review addresses how these revised requirements 5 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Group Chairmans Statement Group Chief Executives Business Review be applied to the consolidated balance sheet, it order to manage the risks we accept through applies beyond the legal boundary of the domestic intermediating customer flows: design solutions to institution to include overseas operations conducted address complex financial problems: build enduring through separately capitalised subsidiaries.
This relationships with core customers: build confidence therefore constitutes an additional cost of basing a in the Groups financial strength: and create the growing multinational banking group in the UK.
strategic options that offer the next generation fresh opportunities to continue building sustainable value.
We intend to clarify in each set of results going forward the impact of the levy, split between UK and In this globalised world, there is intense overseas operations, and Stuart Gulliver covers this competition for the best people and, given our long in more detail in his review.
We regard the levy, history within and connections into the fasterwhich is not tax deductible, as akin to a distribution growing developing markets, our best people are of profits.
For this reason, we intend to add to future highly marketable.
It would be irresponsible to allow shareholder dividends that would otherwise be paid, our comparative advantages to wither by ignoring any amount saved in the event that the levy is the market forces that exist around compensation, restructured or relieved in due course.
even though we understand how sensitive this subject is.
Reform in this area can only be achieved if there The role of banks in society is concerted international agreement on limiting the quantum of pay as well as harmonising pay structures The recent crisis has caused a proper introspection but there appears to be no appetite to take the as to the role that banks play in society and at HSBC initiative on this.
Our duty to shareholders is to build we welcome this.
Banking is not simply about sustainable value in the economic and competitive money.
It is about helping individuals and environment in which we operate and our principal organisations within society to meet personal and resource for achieving this is human talent.
Under corporate objectives by facilitating access to the governance of the Board, we will continue to financial capital and protecting value for those who operate and apply remuneration policies and practices make capital available.
Payment mechanisms, the that take full recognition of best practice and are provision of long-term credit, trade finance, hedging aligned with the long-term interests of shareholders.
and other risk management products, deposit, investment and retirement services are but a few of HSBCs people the activities through which banking groups contribute to todays financial system.
Society cannot function Finally, I want to pay tribute to my 307,000 without an effective financial system that delivers colleagues.
So many of HSBCs people have exemplified commitment and endeavour again in value to those it serves at an intermediation cost that is proportionate to the value created.
Somehow, 2010, helping our customers and clients to meet their many participants and not just banks, lost sight of financial objectives while taking on the additional this basic principle in the run-up to the recent burden of preparing for regulatory change.
This has financial crisis and the consequences for all have, been done against a backdrop of continuing broadinevitably, been far reaching.
There is no doubt that based fiscal support to many economies, with public the scale of regulatory reform will bring many opinion consistently and highly critical of our challenges, but it will also open new opportunities.
As I look forward, it is the combination of the capabilities of HSBCs people, their At HSBC, we shall not forget what happened to determination to do the right thing for our customers precipitate the scale of reform now underway.
Although and their deep sense of responsibility to the the financial turmoil arising from the events of 2007- communities they serve that makes me confident that 2008 has largely moderated, in large part as a result HSBC will play a leading role in rebuilding the trust of co-ordinated government action and support to the that our industry has lost and, by doing so, will build financial system, we enter 2011 with humility, ready sustainable value for you, our shareholders.
to apply right across HSBC all of the lessons learned, notwithstanding that HSBC itself neither sought nor received support from any government.
Society has a right to ask if banks get it.
At HSBC, we do and we are focused on embedding the necessary changes in our business model for long-term sustainable value creation.
But we also do not forget that value creation depends upon HSBC D J Flint, Group Chairman recruiting, training and retaining the right talent in 28 February 2011 6
