Chairmans Statement Total fees accruing to HSBC Specialist Fund Management Introduction Limited the Investment Adviser amounted to 6.0m in the year, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to report that the Company relating to their 1.1% pa management fee 1.5% pa assets in has maintained steady progress during the year to 31 March construction and the 1.0% fee on the acquisitions made, and 2010.
The Groups portfolio continues to perform as we 0.1m advisory fees.
In addition, the Group contracted with other expected.
We have sourced 5 new investments, 3 incremental parts of the HSBC Group on an arms length basis for the stakes and a project variation in the year, with a total investment provision of bank accounts, foreign exchange hedges and of 68.0m.
The Company has raised a total of 126.3m net of insurance broking.
expenses through the issue and placing of new shares, of which 80.0m was raised through the successful C share capital raising The total expense ratio for the Group on an Investment basis in December 2009 which was 50% oversubscribed.
was 1.45% being the Groups operational expenses excluding acquisition costs, divided by the Groups net assets on Our share price has continued to trade at a premium to the last an Investment basis.
This compares with 1.74% for the year to published net asset value per share, which the Board takes as an 31 March 2009. expression of confidence in our investment strategy, yield prospects and balance sheet stability.
More details of the financial results are set out below.
Performance of the portfolio Distributions The Groups portfolio now consists of 33 investments, 32 PFI PPP The Board declared on 20 May 2010 a second interim distribution projects and an investment in the junior loan in Kemble Water.
Apart from the Bradford BSF Schools Phase II project, which This brings the total distributions declared to 6.55p for the year remains in construction, all the projects are fully operational.
to 31 March 2010 representing a 2.3% growth on the prior year.
The Board continues to target a 7.0p annual distribution per share As in previous periods, there are no operational matters of by March 2013. materiality upon which to report.
The Investment Adviser remains active in adding value across the portfolio.
A circular is being sent to shareholders to explain the scrip dividend alternative.
Shareholders need to decide by 17 June on Construction on the Bradford BSF Schools project is currently whether to take up the scrip dividend offer in part or in full.
The behind programme, due to the need to carry out certain remedial payment of a scrip dividend may be beneficial to a number of works.
Given the contractual arrangements and protections, any shareholders, particularly to certain UK residents.
The distribution delay to the hand-over of the completed buildings is unlikely to or scrip dividend will be paid to those shareholders on the have a financial impact on the Groups investment.
The register as at 28 May, and will be settled at the end of June.
Investment Advisers asset management team has been active in understanding the issues and seeking suitable remedies from At the Annual General Meeting AGM in August 2009, the contractors.
shareholders gave the Board the power to offer a scrip dividend alternative and this power runs until the next AGM in 2010.
Financial results Based on the take-up and current feedback from shareholders, it On a consolidated IFRS basis, the profit before tax was 7.7m is the Boards current intention to seek a renewal of this power 2009: 12.4m loss.
The profit before tax has benefited from at the forthcoming AGM in July.
contributions made from the recognition of new subsidiaries arising from the incremental acquisitions.
There have also been Valuation positive fair value movements year on year.
As in previous periods, the Investment Adviser has prepared a fair market valuation for each investment in the portfolio as at As in previous periods, the Company has prepared pro-forma 31 March 2010.
For the PFI PPP investments, this valuation is accounts on an Investment basis treating all 33 holdings as based on a discounted cashflow analysis of the future expected investments.
Profit before tax on an Investment basis was equity and loan note cashflows accruing to the Group from each 25.0m 2009: 22.0m loss and earnings per share on an investment.
This valuation uses key assumptions which are Investment basis were 6.5p 2009: 6.8p loss per share.
This derived from a review of recent comparable market transactions return to profits reflects mainly upward fair value movements in order arrive at a fair market value.
compared to downward movements in the prior year.
The Directors have satisfied themselves with the methodology Cash received from the portfolio by way of distributions, capital used, the economic assumptions, and the discount rates applied.
After Group costs, net cash The Directors have again taken independent third party advice on of 27.6m adequately covers the distributions paid in the year.
the valuation carried out by the Investment Adviser.
Cash generation was ahead of forecast for the first half of the year, but was lower in the second half.
Net receipts were in line with plan for the full year.
4 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 The Board is pleased to report another encouraging set of results, coupled with dividend growth.
The Company has performed as expected in the last 12 months and we are well positioned to add further investments to the Group The Directors have approved the valuation of the portfolio of In addition, the Group announced in December an investment of 33 investments to be 509.6m as at 31 March 2010.
On 2.1m to fund a project variation at the Helicopter Training project.
the Bradford BSF Schools Phase II project and the Helicopter Training project there are combined outstanding equity Total investments including equity commitments made by the commitments of 8.3m.
Group in the year to 31 March 2010 were 68.0m.
The valuation of 509.6m compares with 445.7m at 31 March The Group continues to look selectively for further acquisitions 2009 and 464.5m as at 30 September 2009.
An analysis consistent with its publicly stated policy for new investments.
Its of the growth in the valuation is detailed in the Investment current focus is on the following sectors: Advisers Report.
PFI PPP P3 projects in the UK, mainland Europe, North The resulting NAV per share on an IFRS basis at 31 March 2010 America, and Australia both operational and in their is 107.1p 31 March 2009: 111.1p.
construction phases Operational renewable energy projects such as wind farms, On an Investment basis the NAV per share is 110.7p at 31 March solar parks or hydro-electric schemes, where there are 2010 31 March 2009: 110.5p.
The Investment basis NAV per suitable contractual structures in place which enable the share after the second interim distribution at 31 March 2010 was Group to secure long term income streams, comparable in 107.4p: an increase of 0.2p over the comparable figure at nature to those in PFI PPP P3 projects.
31 March 2009 being due to a solid performance from the portfolio, increased short term inflation forecasts, partly Of possible interest are: offset by an increase of 0.5% in the discount rate used to value operational PFI PPP projects, as described in more detail in the Regulated utilities, albeit most investment opportunities in Investment Advisers Report.
this sector are too large for the Group Debt funding of infrastructure projects, where attractively Portfolio acquisitions and pipeline priced and appropriately structured.
The Group has made the following acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2010: There is a steady flow of investment opportunities to consider but we remain selective.
The Group does not need to make In June, the Group acquired a 30% interest in Renfrewshire acquisitions to meet the yield trajectory imputed from our schools for 6.8m target distribution.
In July, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the Highland Schools PPP project for 16.8m The Investment Adviser is currently assessing a number of investment opportunities.
Clearly, there is no certainty that any of In September, the Group made a 34% investment in the these investments will come to fruition.
Bradford BSF Schools Phase II project with a total funding requirement from the Group of 7.4m Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility In November, the Group acquired additional stakes in three On 20 May 2010, we announced that Henri Grisius will retire existing PFI police projects for a total consideration of 8.0m from the Board on 1 June 2010.
Henri had been a director since In December, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the the launch of the Company in 2006 and has made a valuable Romford Hospital PFI project for 23.9m contribution to the Companys development.
With my fellow In March, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the Newcastle directors, I wish Henri well in his retirement and thank him for his Libraries PFI project for 3.0m.
help and dedication to the Company.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 5 Chairmans Statement continued With the economy likely to remain subdued for some time, the directors believe the Company offers shareholders an attractive yield with a robust net asset value We also announced on 20 May that Chris Russell has agreed to Adviser monitors project performance, and if issues arise join the Company as a Director on 1 June 2010.
Chris is a takes action to minimise any impact on the performance of the Guernsey resident who has spent his career in the investment projects affected.
management industry in the UK, USA and Asia.
Outlook After discussions last year with several shareholders, the Board The outlook for our business has not changed materially from has been working with the Investment Adviser to develop when I last commented.
The economic recovery in the UK and appropriate Environmental, Social and Governance Policies for Europe has been slow to emerge.
Global financial markets the Company and the Group.
Public finances are the focus of attention in many countries.
In the UK, where all but one of our PFI PPP As an Investment Company, we have no employees and the assets are concentrated, a new coalition government has been underlying investments in PFI PPP projects are structured with formed and we expect action to address the budget deficit.
most of the commercial obligations sub-contracted.
We have therefore developed a series of policies and procedures which Looking ahead, we are satisfied that our investment portfolio is are appropriate to these circumstances.
These are set out in our of sufficient quality to perform resiliently.
Cash flows are section on Corporate Responsibility.
The Board intends to use generally predictable and, whilst the valuation of the portfolio is feedback from shareholders to further develop these policies and in part correlated with the rates that apply to long dated gilts, we procedures, as appropriate.
do not anticipate significant fluctuations as a consequence.
Risks and uncertainties Our goal is to grow prudently by the selective acquisition of In our Interim Report last November, I advised that the assets which deliver the quantity and quality of income Investment Adviser had assessed the impact to the Group of the consistent with the targets we have set for future distributions UK Finance Bill 2009, specifically the new legislation affecting and mindful at all times of our appetite for risk.
At present, our the tax deductibility of inter-group loan interest in UK subsidiaries business is effectively debt free and so we have adequate of foreign companies.
Further analysis has taken place but there capacity through established funding lines to invest further.
This has been no change to our assessment that the impact is unlikely we will do as suitable opportunities arise.
The primary market for new PFI projects in the UK may experience We also reported that it was not possible to accurately assess a slowdown over the short term as the new government what impact the European Directive on Alternative Investment determines its spending priorities.
There should not, however, be Fund Managers would have on the Group and the Company.
a major impact on the secondary market from which we make our This remains the case.
The Company joined the Association of investments.
More generally though, private sector skills and Investment Companies, AIC in the year and is satisfied finance will continue to be required by governments to maintain that through the efforts of the AIC and other relevant UK bodies, and develop their countries social and economic infrastructures.
an acceptable outcome on the provisions of this directive will be achieved.
Against this background, and in the knowledge that we are investing in tangible, long duration assets, we look to the future Each of the PFI projects within the portfolio has long term funding with confidence and believe we will secure further investments in place and there is no refinancing risk within any of the PFI in the coming months.
These projects do have exposures to banks in the form of interest rate swaps and deposit accounts.
As previously reported, the portfolio has limited exposure to monoline insurers.
Any further downgrade of a monoline will have no impact on the valuation of the Groups investments.
Graham Picken The projects in the portfolio rely on contracting partners to provide Chairman services.
There is a good spread of service partners with no 24 May 2010 material performance or credit issues to report.
The Investment 6 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010
