ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 46 Chairmans statement In preparing the Annual Report we have taken into account recent income securities, without admitting or denying any allegations of changes and recommendations on corporate governance that any wrongdoing.
The investigation concerned activities on certain were contained in the final Walker report and others such as the of ICAP Securities USA LLCs interdealer voice broking securities Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control and the best practice desks between 2004 and 2008.
ICAP suspended two individuals guidance set out in the Higgs report.
The corporate governance on the mortgage backed securities desk in June 2008 and section, together with the remuneration report, details how the subsequently terminated their employment for violation of Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the ICAP policies.
Combined Code and includes additional and explanatory ICAP Securities USA LLC has made substantial enhancements disclosures as to how the Company has complied.
to the quality of its control environment over the period.
I am satisfied with ICAPs overall corporate governance structure These include greater formalisation of its broking practices, and would like to comment on some changes we have made enhanced operational, risk and compliance controls, improved this year.
training and monitoring programmes, revised policies and procedures, and the recruitment of additional experienced In addition to the scheduled board meetings, we have increased managers in various support roles.
We are working to further the frequency of interim meetings.
The board has met on a strengthen our compliance and risk functions on a worldwide basis.
number of occasions to consider current issues such as trading performance, the SEC investigation and settlement and During the year we made important revisions to the remit and acquisitions.
The additional board meetings were sometimes structure of the audit committee.
It was renamed the audit called at short notice and any director who was unable to attend and risk committee and its agenda, role and responsibilities were a meeting was briefed separately on the matters for discussion broadened to more actively deal with matters of business control at the meeting and their views were sought and considered.
The frequency of meetings has These interim meetings have undoubtedly improved communication increased to six a year.
I regularly attend both the audit and risk between board members and enabled full and detailed consideration and the remuneration committee meetings.
During the period under review, a thorough board evaluation The nomination committee, together with the rest of the board, was undertaken to review the effectiveness of the board and has been considering the succession of a number of long-serving the committees.
The results of the evaluation were supportive non-executive directors who are coincidentally retiring this year.
of the decision making and board processes and endorsed the In addition to the appointment of John Sievwright during the year, changes being undertaken in the remit of the audit and risk the board is now seeking to appoint three new independent committee.
James McNulty, as the senior independent director, non-executive directors.
This creates an opportunity to refresh undertook, in consultation with other directors, an evaluation the board with relevant skills and experience for the current of my performance as Chairman.
The responsibilities and time commitment of the non-executive The board discussed and agreed the skills, knowledge and directors has increased very substantially and, after consultation experience that each appointee would ideally have.
Experience with an external adviser, their fees have been adjusted, with effect of the markets in which ICAP operates is a requirement but such from 1 May 2010, to reflect this additional time commitment.
experience could be derived from a number of other related In view of my length of service, I will be standing for re-election financial services sectors.
The board has appointed a prominent at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Matthew Lester and leadership advisory firm to undertake a thorough search on an James McNulty will also be standing for re-election and John international basis and the process is well underway.
Candidates are Sievwright will be standing for re-appointment as he was now being evaluated and we expect to appoint new non-executive appointed a director since the last annual general meeting.
directors in the second quarter of the financial year 2010 11.
This will keep the period when we are non-compliant with the Nick Cosh, who retired at the end of the financial year, was Combined Code as short as possible.
previously chairman of our audit committee and gave ten years of dedicated and very valuable service during a period when The Group is lead-supervised by the FSA and is required to meet the Group grew dramatically and the issues it faced became the systems and control requirements of the CRD.
Another long standing and much valued reviews these and, where necessary, takes action to ensure director, William Nabarro, who has been a member of the board compliance.
In its 2010 11 business plan, the FSA has announced since the inception of ICAP, has also decided to retire from the plans to adopt a more outcomes-focused approach to supervision City and will not be seeking re-election at the forthcoming annual of all financial services firms and will achieve this in various ways, general meeting.
I would like to thank them both for their wise including more intensive reviews of prudential returns and control counsel over many years and through many changes.
systems as well as more frequent visits and meetings with senior management.
The board recognises that we have to continuously review and enhance the Group procedures to ensure compliance with all the FSAs and other regulators requirements.
Charles Gregson In the US, the Groups activities are primarily regulated by FINRA Chairman and the SEC.
In December 2009 the Group announced that it had 19 May 2010 reached agreement with the SEC to settle in respect of a multiyear, industry-wide investigation into the markets in certain fixed
