04 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chairmans statement.
I am delighted to report that ICG has returned to profitability and delivered a strong set of results in what remained a challenging market environment.
Overview p Group profit before tax of 106 million compared to a loss of 67 million in 2009 p Improvement in trading performance of portfolio companies p Strong and liquid balance sheet p Investment capacity of 2 billion between ICG PLC and third party funds This has been a good year for ICG despite the difficult economic climate.
We expect to make further progress in the current financial year.
Meanwhile, I am delighted to report that we have returned to profitability, generating a profit before tax of 106 million for the year compared to a loss of 67 million last year.
As announced in March, we have adopted a new segmental reporting format as detailed in the Financial review.
The profit before tax of our Fund Management Company FMC was up 23 per cent to 38 million.
The Investment Company IC returned to profitability and delivered a profit before tax of 68 million due to a combination of factors including resilient net interest income, a strong rebound in realisations and a lower level of impairments.
The level of realisations and repayments has been considerably better than we anticipated a year ago.
We have recorded a number Above: of substantial capital gains and, on Marken, our second largest John Manser outgoing Chairman investment, a record gain.
We have closed our Recovery Fund at Justin Dowley incoming Chairman 843 million in what has been acknowledged as an extremely challenging fundraising environment.
Our investments have proved resilient.
Provisions are much lower than last year, as they should have been, and we can already report a number of writebacks.
In the last quarter, there were signs of improved performance across our portfolio.
While conditions are more favourable than in the prior year, the recent turbulence caused by sovereign debt concerns serves as a reminder that the economic recovery remains fragile.
We have increased our ability to capture the attractive investment opportunities available in the current dislocated market by completing a rights issue of 351 million and extending the term of 612 million of our debt in the last 12 months.
In addition, we have raised 368 million of additional third party equity commitments for our Recovery Fund 2008.
I would particularly like to thank you, our shareholders, for your continued support.
Our business Our business 05 The Board appointed Kevin Parry as a Non Executive Director in Year in review June 2009.
Kevin Parry is Chief Financial Officer at Schroders PLC, At the start of the year we stated that we had four clear objectives: the global asset management company.
The Board also appointed to monitor and manage our portfolio: maintain a strong balance Peter Gibbs, formerly Chief Investment Officer of Merrill Lynchs sheet: continue to raise third party funds: and invest selectively in Investment Management activities outside the US, as a secondary loans.
We have made good progress towards meeting Non Executive Director in March 2010. these objectives and as a result we started the new financial year After nine years on the Board of ICG and having completed my in a position of strength.
term of office, I have decided not to stand for reelection at the AGM.
The portfolio has stabilised and in recent months we have I am delighted that Justin Dowley, who has been on the Board of started to see encouraging earnings trends.
In addition weaker ICG PLC since March 2006, will succeed me.
assets have by and large been successfully restructured and I would like to sincerely thank our employees for their hard realisations have resumed apace.
While provisions remain high, work and focus throughout this challenging year.
Their continued we expect these to continue to trend down.
commitment and energy has been instrumental to the strength The balance sheet is strong.
Shareholders funds as at of our competitive standing.
31 March 2010 stood at 1,184 million, up 408 million compared to 31 March 2009.
The balance sheet is also very liquid with undrawn debt facilities at 729 million at year end.
Outlook and strategy We have laid out our ambitions to become a leading global As we enter the new financial year, we are focused on accelerating independent alternative asset manager and have made good the growth of our fund management business.
Over the next five progress in a short space of time in establishing a dedicated years we expect to broaden our fund management offering in fund marketing function, which will underpin the growth in assets alternative asset management and deepen our geographic coverage.
The final and highly successful close of our Long term, we do not believe that we can rely on banks or capital Recovery Fund attracted a number of new key investors to ICG, markets to finance the growth of our balance sheet on an attractive including two new sovereign wealth funds and our first US state basis.
Accordingly, we are focused on increasing our assets under pension fund investor.
This was achieved in a difficult fundraising management to take advantage of the opportunities generated by environment and is testament to the strength of ICGs fund the increased volatility in financial markets, and will be less reliant management franchise.
on balance sheet expansion for growth.
Finally, the rate of investment is slowly improving.
We have The volume of senior buyout debt that is due to reach maturity deployed 254 million over the year for ICG and our mezzanine and over the coming years will provide ICG with considerable investment growth capital funds, the bulk of which was accounted for in the opportunities.
We will be able to refinance the balance sheets of second half.
There is now growing momentum in our investment existing quality buyout transactions, the growth of which has been pipeline globally.
impeded by inappropriate capital structures.
Such opportunities have taken time to emerge but there was a clear improvement in our deal pipeline in the second half of the year.
We will also continue Dividend to invest in growth capital opportunities.
The uplift in deal flow from The Directors remain committed to delivering progressive dividends both Asia Pacific and North America bodes well for our local operations.
based on a sustainable level of cash core income.
The Board has I leave the Company with an experienced and ambitious proposed a final dividend of 11p per share making a total of 17p for management team, a clear strategy for growth and a strong the year in line with the previous financial year.
I have the utmost confidence that The dividend will be paid on 20 August 2010 to shareholders under Christophe and Justins strategic guidance ICG will continue on the register at 16 July 2010. to flourish and create long term value for its shareholders.
The Board and employees To support the growth of our fund management business, we have also made a number of changes to the composition of the Board to further enhance its depth of fund management knowledge.
In March 2010, Christophe Evain was appointed CEO as successor to Tom Attwood, who will remain on the Board, chair the Executive Committee and focus on fundraising.
John Manser outgoing Chairman 06 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Managing Directors strategic review.
Our specialist asset classes offer an attractive balance between risk and return for investors.
Below left: Christophe Evain incoming Chief Executive Officer Below right: Tom Attwood outgoing Chief Executive Officer Managing Directors strategic review Managing Directors strategic review 07 Overview.
In a world where interest rates are low and may remain so for a long period of time, our specialist asset classes mezzanine finance, senior loans and high yield bonds can offer attractive investment products tailored to meet investors appetite for risk and return.
We are well placed to continue to deliver value to shareholders and fund investors as we have done over our 21 year history.
ICG has built a unique position in the mezzanine and credit markets.
Our unwavering commitment to conducting business locally, our ability to deliver sizeable investment commitments, and our consistent and long lasting investment philosophy have all been trademarks on which we have built our reputation.
All of these criteria, which lead investors to choose us, are dependent on our track record and the unparalleled experience of our people.
Although we emerge from this crisis in a stronger position, we are nonetheless acutely aware that the state of the debt market going forward will not allow us to continue to fund and grow ICG as we have done in the past.
While we see highly attractive investment opportunities emerging, it has become necessary to adapt our business model.
Our vision is to evolve from being a leading independent principal investor to becoming the leading global alternative asset manager specialising in mezzanine finance, growth capital and related asset classes.
ICG has gradually developed from being an investment firm for its own account to an investor and manager of third party funds.
Today, third party funds account for approximately 75 per cent of our assets under management with the remaining 25 per cent representing the contribution of the balance sheet, which remains our largest single investor.
Our investment philosophy has been the foundation of our track record and will form the bedrock from which we will grow the fund management business.
Our aim is to double assets under management over the next five years.
We believe we can achieve this by leveraging our international network, sharpening our focus on the needs of our fund investors and identifying new investment niches where our expertise can excel.
Although the markets that we serve have changed considerably, and the short term remains uncertain, our competitive position has improved significantly.
We are convinced that medium term opportunities will continue to emerge for best in class investment firms such as ICG.
We would also like to take this opportunity, on behalf of ICG, to thank John Manser for his enormous contribution to the Company having served as Chairman for nine years.
Tom Attwood Christophe Evain outgoing Chief Executive Officer incoming Chief Executive Officer
