Gavin Slark Peter Warry Group Chief Executive Chairman 4 4 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 5 Overview Chairmans Statement Sector leading results final dividend increased by 10% strong start to 2010 11 BSS has had a successful year.
The Group has navigated its way through the most challenging economic conditions experienced for many years to deliver revenue growth, resilient earnings performance and strong cash flow.
Profit before tax at 44.2m 2009: 57.8m During the economic downturn we have was less than we would have liked but an not had the need to close a single branch excellent outcome compared to our industry through poor performance and during peers in a period that has seen many stop the year we opened a further 18 new paying dividends and undertake rights issues branches.
The Group has remained strongly to repair their balance sheets.
We actually cash generative and is conservatively increased sales over the year as we have financed with year end net debt of 85.3m each year throughout this recession and 2009: 86.0m after investment of 22m.
our market share has grown significantly.
In recognition of this strong financial Domestic heating and plumbing is benefiting position and the positive trends in revenue from early cycle recovery with strong quarter and earnings, the Board is pleased to four performance, and is well positioned recommend a final dividend of 6.09p per to grow further.
The Domestic Division share 2009: 5.54p which represents a 10% has become a major force in the industry increase on last year.
from small beginnings some 10 years ago.
During this period our Industrial Division has Of course none of this would be possible maintained its number one market position without the effort and commitment of the and has sustained a healthy operating margin.
best team in the industry, from trade counter Our newer Specialist Division, although to boardroom, and I would like to thank remaining profitable, has had a tougher time them all for another year of exceptional but is well placed with a number of initiatives performance.
In December 2009, we were that will increase revenue.
delighted to announce the appointment of Frank Elkins, Managing Director of BSS The year has seen the successful Industrial to the Board.
development of our above ground drainage centres in the Industrial Division and in It is difficult for companies to forecast when February 2010 the acquisition of UGS to economists and politicians cannot agree spearhead our development into below about the economic outlook.
We are confident that Group has already demonstrated its ability to these product extensions will replicate the outperform in an adverse market and, on the success of our move into the Big Pipe back of the recent small economic upturn, facility in Coventry a couple of years ago.
Group sales for the latest three month period In the Domestic Division the move into February, March and April are 11.0% like spares distribution through the acquisition for like up on the same period last year, of DHS in April 2009 has exceeded our This excellent result gives support to the profit expectations and there is considerable Boards belief that as the economic situation scope to grow this offering further.
During improves the Groups focus on growth will 2010 we have targeted a number of enable it to disproportionately outperform adjacent markets where we can develop any rising market.
profitable businesses leveraging existing knowledge and expertise in the Group.
These growth opportunities utilise BSS proven skills in plumbing and heating distribution enabling us to reach a broader group of trade customers.
Peter Warry Chairman 25 May 2010 Gavin Slark Peter Warry Group Chief Executive Chairman 4 4 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 5
