BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The report of the Chief Executive, Review of Operations and 2010 has been an exciting and successful year for JLT.
We have once again achieved a strong financial performance, Finance Directors Review cover the performance of the Group in notwithstanding challenging trading conditions and the continued more detail.
investment in the business for future growth.
Share buy-back Particularly pleasing has been the impressive organic growth As in previous years, we will be seeking renewal of our standing achieved across the Group and many actions have been taken share buy-back authority at the forthcoming Annual General over the year to enhance our ability to generate profitable and Meeting.
We enter 2011 in very good shape and with long term finance in place to support the next phase of JLT's development.
Corporate Developments As mentioned, the past year has seen a number of important Performance developments for the Group.
Total revenue grew by 21% to 746.3 million, or 14% at constant In July, we announced the expansion of the JLT International rates of exchange, comprising organic growth of 7% and 7% Network in Europe through an exclusive trading agreement with attributable to acquisitions.
three of Europe's leading independent brokers, SIACI Saint Honor in France, GrECo Group in Austria and Ecclesia Gruppe in Underlying profit before tax was 130.1 million, up 24%, while Germany.
reported profit before tax was 119.4 million, up 17%, after net exceptional costs of 10.7 million, mainly attributable to the JLT also acquired a 20% interest in GrECo in addition to its existing business transformation programme and acquisition integration 20% in SIACI.
Ecclesia also holds a 13% shareholding in GrECo.
This is an important development to strengthen the JLT Reported diluted earnings per share have increased by 26% to International Network in Continental and Eastern Europe.
trading agreement encompasses compatible branding and mutual development of all insurance, reinsurance and employee benefits I am pleased to report that the directors have resolved to activities, including shared technology, for the benefit of clients recommend an increased final dividend of 13.7 pence per share for the year to 31st December 2010 which will be paid on 4th May across all our industry sectors.
2011 to shareholders on the register at 8th April 2011.
This brings Within Employee Benefits, the integrations of the acquisitions in the total dividend for the year to 22.5 pence per share, an overall late 2009 and early 2010 of HSBC Actuaries and Consultants and increase for the year of 7%.
iimia Wealth Management have been an outstanding success as is evidenced by the results achieved by our employee benefits business in 2010.
In late 2010, the Group completed the refinancing of its revolving credit facilities and now has committed unsecured long-term bank facilities of some 351 million on competitive terms, with maturities varying between 2015 and 2022.
This gives us a very strong base from which to invest for future growth.
Most recently, in January 2011 we announced the establishment of a new subsidiary presence in Johannesburg, South Africa which we anticipate will be operational by April 2011, subject to regulatory clearance.
JLT's entry into this market underlines its belief in the growth potential of South Africa both domestically and as a hub for the African continent.
Group Board and senior management changes The past year has seen a number of changes to our senior management team.
As I noted in my review last year, Brian Carpenter retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in 2010 but remains with the Group as Chairman of JLT Australia and New Zealand.
Jim Rush and William Nabarro retired from the Board and the Group on 6th August and 31st August respectively.
After more than four years as Group Finance Director, Jim returned with his family to Australia.
He was succeeded, as Group Finance Director, by Simon Mawson, formerly Director of PT Astra 6 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW Number of staff by region Europe 3250 Asia 1150 Americas 950 Australasia 850 International Tbk responsible for Finance, Risk Management and His role is to promote and co-ordinate the development of the Group's risk and insurance business internationally in its chosen Information Technology.
areas of specialism and to spearhead the continued expansion of William worked for some eight years at JLT, latterly as Group the JLT International Network.
Commercial Director and Chairman of the Employee Benefits business.
William decided to step down from the JLT Board in Our staff order to move back to the North of England to pursue a career in On behalf of the Board I would like to welcome all those who education.
have joined us in 2010 and to record our thanks to JLT staff The Board is very grateful to Jim and William for their very around the Group for their contribution to another very successful significant contributions to the successful development of the JLT year.
Each year I have commented on the outstanding quality and Group over the years and wishes them both every success in their commitment of our people and once again in 2010 the outstanding new careers.
results achieved by the Group are a proper reflection of their hard Duncan Howorth has assumed responsibility as International work, energy and dedication.
Chairman of our EB operations worldwide while Mark Wood has been appointed as Non-Executive Chairman of JLT's UK Employee Outlook Benefits activities.
Mark was formerly Deputy Chairman of Our clear focus on clients, coupled with the benefits of the Paternoster, the specialist life assurance business that he founded.
investments we are making in leading industry professionals, Jonathan Palmer-Brown, who joined the Group Executive systems and acquisitions, provide us with confidence that we will Committee on 1st September will, subject to FSA approval, continue to make financial progress in 2011, building on the strong assume the role of Chairman of JLT Specialty Limited formerly momentum developed in 2010.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited, in place of Andrew Agnew who left the Group in September.
James Twining joined JLT as Group Strategy Director and a member of the Group Executive Committee in January 2011.
James was formerly with McKinsey & Company and his career has spanned investment banking through to operating his own e-procurement business.
In addition to her responsibilities as Group Legal Director, Chairman of JLT Insurance Management and CEO of our Latin America Operations, Vyvienne Wade has assumed responsibility for our operations in Southern Europe from February 2011.
Geoffrey Howe Most recently we announced the appointment of Mark Drummond Chairman Brady as an Executive Director from 1st March 2011.
Mark has 22nd March 2011 been with JLT Group since 1987 and is currently International Chairman of Risk & Insurance and a member of the Group Executive Committee.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 7
