American pp01 19 American pp01 19 09 03 2011 15:41 Page 2 Chairmans Statement Another good year for the US stockmarket Discount to net asset value has narrowed and dividend is maintained Slight NAV underperformance vs. benchmark index but strong long-term record is intact Succession plan in place for your Board Investment Performance Over the year to 31st December 2010, your Company produced a total return on net assets of 17.8% in sterling terms, marginally underperforming the total return of the S&P 500 Index our benchmark of 18.3%.
The Companys share price total return was stronger, at 21.7%.
Over the longer term, as can be seen from the charts and data on pages 10 and 11, the Companys record remains strong, particularly since 2002 when the current manager took over responsibility and various other risk and gearing controls were introduced.
The dollar began 2010 at a rate of 1.61 to the pound and strengthened marginally over the year, ending at 1.57.
This relative weakness in sterling has meant that returns to UK based investors were enhanced by around 3%.
In order to protect against currency fluctuations in respect of the Companys 50 million debenture, a currency hedge was put in place in 2001 at a $ rate of 1.46.
The Companys net asset value in sterling total return terms thus underperformed its benchmark index by 0.5 percentage points over the year.
Performance attribution data shows that the larger companies portfolio underperformed by 2.1%, with the smaller companies portfolio outperforming by 1.6% along with a positive contribution of 1.1% from gearing cash effect.
Although we are disappointed in the short-term underperformance of the larger companies portfolio, we continue to support the manager in the policy of investing in larger, quality companies on attractive valuations.
Full details of the activities of the investment managers are set out in their report on pages 5 to 8.
Revenue Account and Dividends Net revenue after taxation for the year was 4,517,000 2009: 4,540,000 and earnings per share were 10.56p 2009: 10.63p.
Revenue was almost flat as banks and other financials retained cash to repair their balance sheets and other companies cast around for acquisition candidates amongst the recession casualties.
The Companys dividend policy has been to distribute all, or substantially all, of the available income in each year.
Despite the modest decline in earnings, the Board is proposing to maintain last years dividend of 11.0p per share and, in doing so, will be drawing around 197,000 from revenue reserves.
Shareholders should note that income streams can vary significantly, and the Companys dividend payouts are likely to reflect those variations.
After accounting for the payment of the proposed final dividend, this leaves a balance in revenue reserves of 9.8 million equivalent to 22.9p per share or 2.1 times our current dividend.
The dividend will be paid on 9th May 2011 to shareholders on the register on 8th April 2011.
Gearing The Board of Directors sets the overall gearing strategy and guidelines and reviews these at each meeting.
The investment management team manages the gearing 2 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 American pp01 19 American pp01 19 09 03 2011 15:41 Page 3 levels actively within these agreed guidelines.
At present, there is an upper limit of 20% of shareholders funds and this can only be increased with Board consent.
The 50 million debenture provides the potential to gear up to around 113%.
As at the year end, the Companys net gearing level offsetting cash and near cash against our debenture was 104% of shareholders funds, having ranged between 104% and 111% during the year.
Management of the Discount The Companys discount of share price to net asset value NAV calculated with debt at fair value and including income, narrowed by 3 percentage points over the course of the year, finishing at 0.3%.
During the year the shares traded between a 6.0% discount and a 0.8% premium.
The Company issued 125,000 new shares at a premium to NAV of 1.5% in July 2010.
Whilst the Company did not repurchase any shares during the year, your Board believes that such a facility is an important tool in the management of discount volatility.
A resolution to renew the authority to allow the Company to repurchase up to 14.99% of its share capital will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
Investment Manager The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from North American investments by outperformance of the Companys benchmark.
Your Board has once again thoroughly reviewed the capabilities of the Investment Manager in order to assess whether J. P. Morgan Asset Management remains the most appropriate manager of the Companys assets.
In addition to scheduled Board Meetings, your Directors have undertaken additional strategy and investment meetings with the named investment managers, conducted comparisons with an appropriate peer group both in the UK and the US with regard to performance, fee rates and costs of management and spent time reviewing the investment management operation whilst in New York for a Board Meeting.
We have concluded that the ongoing appointment of the existing Investment Manager is in the best interests of shareholders.
The Board Your Board has put in place procedures to ensure that the Company complies fully with the revised Combined Code and the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code on Corporate Governance.
Details are given in the Corporate Governance section of this report on pages 26 to 30.
The Director retiring by rotation at this years Annual General Meeting is Sarah Bates, who, being eligible, offers herself for re-election.
Sarah, who was recently appointed Chairman of the AIC, has been a Director of the Company since July 2005.
Details of her background and experience can be found on page 19 and the Board strongly recommends her re-election.
In addition, I, having served as a Director for over nine years, also retire and offer myself for re-election.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself should disqualify a director from seeking re-election and, in proposing my re-election, it has taken into account the ongoing requirements of the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Nomination Committee has carefully reviewed my performance as Chairman and the merits of my continued Chairmanship and recommends my re-election.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 American pp01 19 American pp01 19 09 03 2011 15:41 Page 4 Chairmans Statement continued I should point out that it has been agreed that I will retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in 2012, so this will be my last year as a Director of the Company.
The Board has reviewed in detail its succession policy plans and has concluded that Sarah Bates should take over as Chairman at that time.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the fees paid to Directors, which have remained unchanged since 2004.
Cognisant of this fact, the strong medium to long term performance of the Company and the increased regulatory requirements that have been or are soon to be introduced, the Committee has recommended that they be increased.
Details of the new fee levels can be found in the Directors remuneration report on page 31.
The aggregate level of fees payable in any one year remains below the maximum stipulated in the Articles of 175,000.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFM On 11th November 2010, the European Parliament approved the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
This Directive is expected to be brought into force under European Law shortly with the provisions to be implemented through secondary legislation to be promulgated in each European Union Member State, within the following two years.
Although it is too early to be certain as to the impact on the Company, it seems likely that there will be changes, and possibly an increase, in the Companys governance, administration and custodian expenses.
The Board and the Companys advisers will continue to monitor the progress and likely implications of the Directive.
Annual General Meeting Your Directors and I very much look forward to welcoming shareholders to the Annual General Meeting, which will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Friday 6th May 2011 at 2.30 p. m. Garrett Fish, our lead investment manager, will make a presentation to shareholders, reviewing the year and commenting on the outlook for the current year.
It would be helpful if shareholders could submit, in advance and in writing, any detailed or technical questions that they wish to raise at the Annual General Meeting, to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Outlook In his report on pages 5 to 8 our Manager expresses his optimism for the US markets over the medium term.
The economic recovery continues, albeit at a modest pace, corporate earnings and profits are generally strong and new jobs are being created.
The Board shares this optimism although recognises the risks posed by unresolved debt issues both in the US and Europe, by inflation and by the recent unrest in North Africa and the Middle East.
Hamish Buchan Chairman 9th March 2011 4 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
