Chairmans Statement Performance I am pleased to be able to report that the Company has delivered solid performance in both absolute and relative terms for the full year.
You may recall that performance in the first half was less satisfactory, but our investment managers remained firm in their convictions, including a number of country and stock specific overweights and underweights against the benchmark index which delivered very strong out-performance in the last few months of the financial year.
The Companys portfolio returned 23.9%, net of management fees and expenses, outperforming the benchmark index by 2.6 percentage points.
The Companys diluted net asset value NAV total return which assumes that the 11.9 million Subscription shares outstanding at 30th September 2010 were all exercised at 176p per share was 24.0% and the return to Ordinary shareholders was 22.7%.
Please refer to the investment managers report for a full review of the portfolios performance.
Revenue and Dividends Revenue per share for the year amounted to 1.76p on an undiluted basis and the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 1.70p which, if approved by shareholders, will be payable on 11th February 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7th January 2011.
Discount Management The Board closely monitors the level of discount at which the Companys Ordinary shares trade relative to their NAV.
During the year the Company bought back a total of 3,119,610 Ordinary shares in nine separate transactions, representing 1.9% of the Ordinary shares in issue at the start of the year.
These buybacks were executed at an average weighted discount to the diluted ex-income NAV of 10%.
The Board believes that the discount should, in normal market circumstances, be maintained as far as possible at less than 10% relative to the diluted ex-income NAV, and uses the Companys buyback powers to pursue this objective.
Over the year the average daily discount, using the diluted ex-income NAV, was 9.2%.
The Board also believes that, as well as providing liquidity, it is important that buybacks should bring an uplift in NAV per share for continuing investors as a result of those shares being acquired at a discount to their NAV.
This will continue to be the Boards policy for the year ahead and the Directors will therefore propose a resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM to authorise the Company to repurchase its Ordinary and Subscription shares.
In addition, and as part of its armoury to manage the discount, the Directors intend to convene a General Meeting in February 2011 to propose introducing conditional semi-annual tender offers.
Each tender offer would be for up to 5% of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the relevant date, at a 2% discount to diluted ex-income NAV, less the costs of effecting the tender.
The first such tender would be in respect of the six month period ending 30th September 2011 and would be implemented if the Companys Ordinary shares have traded at an average daily discount of more than 2 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 9% relative to their diluted ex-income NAV over that period.
Thereafter, and subject to receiving the necessary shareholder approvals at each AGM, such tenders would be conducted on the same basis in respect of the financial periods ending 31st March and 30th September each year.
Shareholders should note that these tender offers will, however, remain at the discretion of the Board and be subject to prevailing market conditions at the time, so they should place no expectation on these tender offers being implemented in the future.
Proposed One-Off Tender Offer The Board has also decided, following recent meetings with a number of the Companys major shareholders, to implement a one-off tender offer for up to 5% of the Ordinary shares in issue on the Record Date of 8th December 2010 and to allow Subscription shareholders to participate in this tender if they exercise their conversion rights by 7th January 2011.
Subscription shareholders on the register on the Record Date and who exercise their Subscription shares by 7th January 2011 will be deemed to have held the Ordinary shares resulting from the exercise on the Record Date.
This tender offer is designed to enable those shareholders other than restricted shareholders who wish to realise their Ordinary shares to do so subject to the overall limits of the tender offer.
Shareholders who successfully tender their Ordinary shares will receive a tender price per Ordinary share which will be equal to the diluted ex-income NAV per Ordinary share inclusive of undistributed revenue reserves on the calculation date, from which the direct costs and expenses of the tender offer including stamp duty and realisation costs, together with a further 2% discount, have been deducted.
The Record Date for participation in this tender offer will be close of business on 8th December 2010.
Under the terms of this tender offer, shareholders other than restricted shareholders will be entitled to tender up to 5% of the Ordinary shares they hold, as at the Record Date their Basic Entitlement.
Such shareholders will also be able to tender additional Ordinary shares, but such excess tenders will only be satisfied to the extent that other Shareholders tender less than their aggregate Basic Entitlement and will be satisfied on a pro rata basis.
Tender applications will be rounded down to the nearest whole number of Ordinary shares.
A circular in respect of this tender offer and the semi-annual tender offers detailed above is expected to be despatched to shareholders in the first half of January 2011.
This one-off tender offer will be conditional on shareholders approving the Companys continuation resolution at the AGM on 31st January 2011, as more fully described below.
Subscription Shares The Company issued 32,000,805 Subscription shares as a bonus issue to qualifying shareholders on the basis of one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held in February 2009.
Each Subscription share confers the right but not the obligation to subscribe for one Ordinary share at predetermined prices on any business day during the period from 1st April 2009 until 31st March 2014, after which JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 Chairmans Statement continued the rights on the Subscription shares will lapse.
Between 1st October 2009 and 30th September 2010, 19,669,626 Subscription shares were converted into Ordinary shares, raising proceeds of 26,972,000.
As at the date of this Report, a further 27,641 Subscription shares have been converted, meaning that a total of 27,641,000 has been raised for investment by the Company since the Subscription shares were issued, with 63% of the original allotment of Subscription shares being converted.
On 1st April 2010, the exercise price stepped up from an initial 137p per Subscription share to 176p per share.
Since this increase, the Companys Ordinary share price, which is 237p at the time of writing, has remained above the revised exercise price.
The next and final step-up in exercise price, to 203p per share, will take place on 1st April 2012.
Further details on the Subscription shares, including their exercise prices, the apportionments for capital gains tax purposes and how they may be exercised, can be found on the Companys website at www.
co. uk and on page 64 of this report.
Manager The Board has carried out its formal annual review of the investment management, company secretarial and marketing services provided to the Company by JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
This review encompassed their performance record, management processes, investment style, resources and risk control mechanisms.
After full consideration, the Board concluded that the continued appointment of JPMAM for provision of these services on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Performance Fee This year, for the first time since 2008, a performance fee is payable to the Manager.
Despite the Company having outperformed its benchmark index in the two years up to 30th September 2010 the fee amounts to a relatively modest 53,000, as the carried forward negative balance of 1.193 million incurred largely in respect of poor performance in the year ended 30th September 2008 had to be covered before a performance fee could again be paid.
The Board is pleased that the Managers investment performance relative to our benchmark index has improved to such an extent that it has earned this additional fee.
Details in relation to the calculation of the performance fee may be found in the Directors Report on page 22 of this report.
Borrowing Facilities The Company has a 25 million five year multi-currency loan facility with Lloyds Banking Group, which expires in May 2011.
In August the Board was able to renegotiate the Companys 364 day multi-currency facility with ING Bank and increased the expiring facility from 20 million to 30 million and for a term of three years.
4 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Board This year the Directors commissioned Trust Associates, an independent consultancy firm, to facilitate the annual evaluation of the Board.
The evaluation covered a range of topics including size and composition of the Board, Board information and processes, shareholder engagement and training and accountability, as well as the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, the Chairman and the Directors.
This was a very worthwhile and revealing exercise and actions have been taken in respect of the findings and recommendations.
As part of its commitment to effective succession planning, the Board has resolved to recruit a new non-executive director in 2011, in anticipation of the retirement of Mr Alun Evans at the AGM in 2012.
Continuation Vote The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the Directors must propose an Ordinary resolution for the continuation of the Company in its current form at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board has confidence in the Companys ability to benefit from the opportunities for long term capital growth offered by Asia ex Japan stockmarkets and, having also consulted a number of its larger shareholders, has no hesitation in recommending that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution, as the Directors intend to do with their own shares.
This will enable the Company to continue as an investment trust for a further three years until the AGM to be held in 2014.
Annual General Meeting This years Meeting will again be held at The Salters Hall, 4 Fore Street, London EC2Y 5DE on Monday, 31st January 2011 at 12.00 noon.
In addition to the formal proceedings, there will be a presentation by Joshua Tay, one of your investment managers, who will also be available to respond to questions on the Companys portfolio, investment strategy and the outlook for Asia generally.
Following the Meeting there will be an opportunity for shareholders to meet the Board and the investment manager over a buffet lunch and I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible.
Outlook At the time of writing Asia ex Japan stock markets are strong, supported by healthy company balance sheets and reasonable valuations and our investment managers remain positive for now.
Nevertheless, we have seen recent interest rate increases from China, Australia and India as these countries central banks seek to moderate growth to avoid excessive inflation.
For now the portfolio remains geared but our investment managers are keeping a very close eye on equity market valuations.
James M Long Chairman 10th December 2010 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
