Chairmans Statement In my first report to you as Chairman, it is a pleasure to report on a year of strong performance in the 12 months to 30th June 2010 after the exceptionally volatile and difficult market conditions of the previous year.
Not only was there a strong recovery in the underlying net asset value of the Company but our Manager added considerable value through outperformance against our benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Free Index.
Emerging markets have of course led the way in the overall equity recovery of the last year, leaving developed markets well behind.
Following the successful issue of subscription shares a year ago, we now have to report our net asset value on a diluted basis to reflect the potential dilution to net asset value assuming full conversion of the subscription shares to ordinary shares.
Until the expiry period of the subscription shares, this gives a somewhat misleading impression of the Companys underlying portfolio performance as it has a negative effect on the net asset value calculation.
I should emphasise that it is not the basis on which we judge the performance of the Manager, which we continue to do on an undiluted basis.
Accordingly, I am happy to report that the portfolio return net of fees and expenses of your Company rose by 41.4% before adjustments, against a rise of 35.6% in the benchmark.
Allowing for the dilution effect of those subscription shares that were exercised in the year, this adjusts to a rise in net asset value of 41.1% while the rise on a fully diluted basis was only 35.3%.
This outperformance was driven by active stock selection as the Manager details in his report, which has been very much the traditional source of added value in the Managers performance over many years.
This is a welcome return to form after a quiet couple of years and a reminder of the strong long term performance record of the Manager.
It also gives rise to a performance fee payment due to the Manager, the calculation of which is rebased to the year when it was last paid 2006 7 so that the Manager receives a lower fee than would seem merited by last years performance because of weaker performance in the two preceding years.
As a Board, we are of course concerned just as much with the share price as with the underlying net asset value and that means we pay particular attention to the fluctuations in the discount of our share price to underlying asset value.
The share price rose 33.7% through the year, from 374p, close to the lows for the year to exactly 500p at year end.
The subscription shares are of course a geared play on the underlying and rose some 93% over the year, from 39.5p to 76.3p.
The discount on the ordinary shares traded as low as 4.3% at one stage and in the opposite direction, apart from one daily blip, widened out to 11% briefly, averaging 7.9% through the year.
The Board has a clear policy on discount management, namely to buy shares only if the fully diluted discount touches or exceeds 10% for some time, 2 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
We have not felt obliged to intervene to date.
We like to think your Company is well regarded in the market place and that helps to keep the discount within acceptable bounds but we are very prepared to act if and when necessary.
Income after expenses rose modestly last year and we are proposing to maintain the dividend to shareholders at 3.2p.
As you may recall from previous remarks, our investment policy is aimed at maximising capital growth and does not focus on income as such.
Accordingly, dividends may fluctuate from year to year according to our income position.
The Board has always taken seriously its governance obligations and we comply fully with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance and the FRC Combined Code.
Following the banking crisis, another raft of recommendation on governance has emerged and your Board will review them with regard to suitability in due course.
We continue to monitor our Manager carefully, believing this is one of the key responsibilities of any investment trust board.
We have decided to formalise this monitoring function going forward with the establishment of a Management Engagement Committee to that end.
We confirm that we are fully satisfied that the Manager is the right manager for the Company, not only in terms of investment performance but also in terms of risk management, administation, controls, compliance, etc.
As an example of our continuing monitoring of operational risk, we reviewed the Companys custody arrangements during the year which we found satisfactory.
In these turbulent times, there is some comfort in having such a strongly capitalised and well managed operation as JPMorgan standing behind the Company.
The Board itself has been stable in terms of composition over the year after the planned departures of the previous year.
As previously, we carry out a review of the Board and separately the Board reviews my role as Chairman.
I am pleased to say no major concerns were raised and I would like to thank my colleagues for their support in my first year as Chairman.
I leave the Manager in his report to comment on the shorter term outlook for emerging markets but as a broad statement of faith, your Board believes that the long term outlook for the countries we invest in remains good and in many ways brighter than the prospects for the developed world.
The rapid recovery from the recent global credit crisis seems ample validation for that view.
The days of scepticism over emerging markets are long over and emerging markets now have their proper place in both institutional and private portfolios.
Alan Saunders Chairman 28th September 2010 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
