Chairmans Statement Performance The year to 31st March 2010 was just as volatile as the previous financial year but there was, thankfully, a considerably more positive outcome for equity investors.
In the year to 31st March 2010, the Companys total return on net assets i. e. with net income reinvested was 57.7%, which compares with a return of 75.2% on the same basis from the Companys benchmark, the HSBC Smaller European Companies ex UK Total Return Index in sterling terms.
Whilst it is disappointing to have underperformed the benchmark index, the significant positive return is welcome following such a turbulent period in financial markets.
The underperformance occurred principally in the first half of the Companys financial year, as markets rallied strongly but to a lesser extent in companies exhibiting the style factors that our Investment Managers seek.
More details are given in the Investment Managers Report on the following pages and the Companys total return for the year can be analysed by looking at the performance attribution analysis set out in the table on page 6.
This shows that stock selection was negative over the year, but that the use of gearing in a rising market was positive and offset this to some extent.
Equity markets began to normalise in the second half of the year and it is encouraging that the Company outperformed the benchmark over both three and six months to 31st March 2010.
Longer term NAV performance remains strong: the Company has outperformed the benchmark over three years.
Over five and ten years, it was first and second in its peer group respectively.
More details of the longer term performance are set out on page 1.
The discount of the Companys share price to net asset value based on the assumption that the shares held in Treasury had been reissued at 31st March 2010 in accordance with the Boards policy on the reissuance of Treasury shares narrowed a little over the year from 19.5% to 18.7%.
This resulted in a total return to shareholders of 59.8%.
Revenue and Dividends Net revenue return for the year amounted to 2.2 million and there is now a positive balance on the Companys Revenue Reserve.
As a result, under investment trust rules, the Company is required to pay a dividend.
Subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a dividend of 3.0 pence per share will be paid on 15th July 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18th June 2010.
I would remind shareholders that the Companys objective is to achieve capital growth rather than income and so dividends may not arise every year.
Share Buybacks and Treasury Shares Consistent with most investment trust companies in the European sector, the discount to net asset value at which the Companys shares trade has remained stubbornly wide over the year, averaging 17.5%.
The Board has continued to use its share buyback authority to attempt to manage the volatility and absolute level of the discount.
During the year, the number of shares bought back totalled 1,263,547, representing 2.7% of the shares in issue at the beginning of the financial year.
Those shares were bought into Treasury and, consistent with previous practice, on 29th March 2010 a total of 1,628,670 shares were cancelled, having been held in Treasury for over a year.
No shares were reissued from Treasury during the year.
The Board has reviewed its share buyback and Treasury share policies.
It is cognisant of the widened discount on the Companys shares, despite more stable equity market 2 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 conditions, and shareholders will have noted that the Company has been more actively buying in shares in recent weeks.
At the previous five Annual General Meetings shareholders have approved a resolution to enable the Company to reissue shares from Treasury at a discount to net asset value.
Despite the fact that no shares were reissued from Treasury in the year under review, your Board continues to believe that there are benefits in having the ability to reissue, rather than cancel, shares bought in the market.
Its use can improve liquidity in the Companys shares, help manage any imbalance between the supply and demand, reduce the volatility and absolute levels of the discount and enhance the net asset value by reissuing shares at a narrower discount than that at which they were purchased.
Your Board is requesting that shareholders renew the authority for the use of Treasury shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as it sees this as a useful tool to add value for shareholders should market conditions improve.
It is important to note that, as previously, the Board will maintain its policy of restricting the Companys ability to reissue Treasury shares, by imposing a strict limit to the dilution associated with the reissue at a discount to a maximum of 0.5% of net asset value in any one year.
Board Evaluation The Nomination Committee carried out its annual evaluation of the Board, its Committees, the individual Directors and the Chairman earlier this year.
The Board takes this review seriously and views it as an effective means of evaluating the continuing efficacy of the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all Directors who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and did not retire by rotation at either of them must retire at the next AGM.
As all of the Directors stood for re-election in either 2008 or 2009, there is no requirement under the Articles for a Director to stand for re-election this year.
However, having served as a Director for more than nine years, I must stand for annual re-election, in accordance with corporate governance best practice.
In my absence, the Nomination Committee assessed my performance and determined that I should continue as Chairman.
A resolution proposing my re-election will therefore be put to the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee also agreed that a new director would be recruited in the near future to enable the Board to be refreshed over the coming two to three years.
An external agency has been engaged to conduct the search for a new director.
Manager Evaluation During the year, the Board engaged an independent third party, Trust Associates, to conduct a review of the Companys management fee arrangements.
Following that review, the Board concluded that it was satisfied that the current management fee arrangement was competitive.
It will review the terms of the management fee arrangement at least every three years.
The Board also carried out a formal review of the Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM during the year.
This covered the investment management, company secretarial, administrative and marketing services provided to the Company by JPMAM and took into account their investment performance record, management processes, investment style, resources and risk control mechanisms.
The Board is satisfied with the performance of the Manager and JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 Chairmans Statement continued concluded that its continued appointment on the existing terms is very much in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Corporate Governance The Company operates in accordance with corporate governance best practice and the Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance as applicable to investment trust companies.
Comprehensive information can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Directors Report on pages 25 to 28.
Company Name At the forthcoming AGM, a special resolution will be put to shareholders proposing that the Companys name be changed to JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
The Board believes that this more accurately reflects the Companys investment objective and follows research conducted amongst the Companys shareholders and other market participants.
Annual General Meeting Your Directors and I very much look forward to welcoming you to the Companys AGM which will be held at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London EC2R 5BJ on Thursday 8th July 2010 at 12.00 noon.
The Investment Managers will make a presentation reviewing the past year and commenting on the outlook for the current year.
As usual, the meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch, providing shareholders the opportunity to meet the Directors and the Investment Managers.
Please submit in writing, or via the Companys website, any detailed questions that you wish to raise at the AGM to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST are able to lodge their proxy votes electronically.
Outlook Our Investment Managers set out their views on the investment outlook on the next few pages.
They see a reasonable prospect of continued growth in both the earnings and ratings of smaller European companies.
Your Board notes that there remain significant uncertainties in the wider European economic outlook due to the high level of indebtedness amongst some European countries.
At present, the markets await more clarity about the prospects for longer term debt reduction from Eurozone countries and the impact this may have on the European economies.
However, providing the debt squeeze does not extend further into the corporate sector, there are underlying favourable conditions for many companies in the form of low interest rates and a weak currency.
The substantial rise in the European equity markets over the past year combined with the uncertain economic environment suggests more limited prospects for further increases this year and your Board is supportive of the Investment Managers cautious stance.
Elisabeth Airey Chairman 27th May 2010 4 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
