Introduction Highlights Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Jamie Dundas Chairman Chairmans statement These are our first full year results since our Listing on the London Stock Exchange last summer.
We delivered strong performance in 2010.
Chris Parkin, who had joined the Board following the 2007 MBO of our mutual funds, by AUM, were ranked in the first quartile as a nominee of TA Associates Inc. also retired from the Board in terms of three year investment performance at the year end.
TA Associates Inc. continues to be a significant shareholder Net sales of 2.3bn combined with market levels ending the and Michael Wilson and Richard Morris remain as TA Associates year in positive territory to lift AUM from 19.5bn to 24.1bn.
Inc. s representatives on the Board.
This underpinned EBITDA for the year of 124.6m.
Full details of our performance and results are set out in the financial review Employees and in the financial statements which follow.
The quality and performance of our people is of the highest importance for Jupiter.
The Groups success is dependent on its Listing ability to recruit, motivate and retain talented individuals whose skills The Listing, launched in volatile markets, was nonetheless very are often very much in demand in a competitive market, and to that well supported.
We were pleased to broaden our shareholder base, end we need to maintain a competitive remuneration policy that also with the participation of many new investors who saw the value and aligns the interests of clients, shareholders and staff.
Since Listing we growth potential in our business model and in the strategy set out in have worked hard to develop and implement the remuneration policy our Listing prospectus.
At the same time, the Listing enabled us to set out in our Prospectus, and to ensure that it is consistent with the simplify and strengthen our capital structure, exchanging high coupon above objectives and compliant with the FSAs Remuneration Code.
preference capital for ordinary equity thereby substantially reducing 2010s strong corporate performance was underpinned by the great net debt.
This has provided a solid platform for future performance.
commitment and professionalism of our staff in all roles, and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank all of them for their contribution.
At the time of the Listing we indicated that we expected to pay a final dividend in respect of 2010, following announcement of our results.
Outlook The Board has recommended a dividend of 4.7p per ordinary share.
Looking ahead, the market for our investment products and services is large and growing steadily.
We see considerable opportunities for Governance growth which we intend to pursue, both in our core UK retail market and in the other markets and geographies in which we have been Over the past two years we have reviewed and strengthened our governance arrangements, both at Board and executive level.
Our past growth, future aspirations and obligations to clients, counterparties and regulators all dictate the need for very high standards of governance.
Ensuring we meet those standards is a continuing process, on which we intend to remain very focused.
Ahead of the Listing, we welcomed Liz Airey and Lorraine Trainer as new non-executive Directors.
Liz is our Senior Independent Jamie Dundas Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee: Lorraine will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee following our AGM in May, Chairman 8 April 2011 taking over from me.
At Listing the number of executive Directors on the Board reduced, with Adrian Creedy and Anthony Nutt stepping down but continuing as members of the Executive Committee.
Jonathan Carey also stepped down at Listing and retired in December after more than 23 years of distinguished service with the Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 Jupiter Fund Management plc
