6 Chairmans statement Performance Independent fiduciary services Our net asset value total return for the year to 31 December New transactions and appointments continued to be below 2010 was 24.8%, compared to a total return of 14.5% for the historic levels, but a combination of high activity from existing FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
Net revenue return per share business and strict cost control led to an increase in profits.
was 13.26p, an increase of 1.8% over the previous year, as a Future improvement in profits is dependent upon continued result of a 3.5% fall in the investment trust and an 8.8% global growth and an increase in capital market transactions.
increase in independent fiduciary services.
The creation of our board effectiveness services business demonstrates our intention to seek to grow both organically Dividend and by way of acquisition where suitable opportunities arise.
The board is recommending a final dividend of 8.5p per ordinary share 2009: 8.0p, which together with the interim dividend of For a discussion of the independent fiduciary services business 4.2p 2009: 4.2p gives a total dividend of 12.7p 2009: please see the managing directors report on page 14.
The final dividend will be paid, subject to shareholder approval, on 20 April 2011 to holders on the register on the record date of 18 March 2011.
I should like to thank James Henderson for the good performance of the portfolio in 2010, extending an excellent The Corporations policy continues to be to seek growth in both long term record, and Caroline Banszky and her team in capital and income.
We attach considerable importance to the fiduciary services for managing to make progress in difficult dividend, which we aim to increase over a period, if not every conditions.
year, at a rate which is covered by earnings and which does not impair the flexibility of our investment policy.
Our basis for The annual general meeting will be held at the Brewers Hall, reporting earnings is more conservative than that of many Aldermanbury Square, London EC2V 7HR at 11am on 12 April investment trusts, in that all our expenses, including interest 2011, and I look forward to seeing as many as possible of costs, are charged fully to the revenue account.
Investment trust Equity markets were volatile in the first six months of the year, Douglas McDougall with little overall change, but the remainder of the year saw a steady improvement in values.
Corporate profits have been increasing and balance sheets have been strengthening, giving rise to expectations of future dividend increases.
This improved corporate performance encouraged us to increase equity exposure, which was funded by the sale of part of our holding in short dated corporate bonds, which we had held as an alternative to cash.
The performance of the portfolio has benefited from the relatively high exposure to industrial companies, which have seen expanding demand from emerging markets.
For a discussion of the portfolio please see the investment managers review on page 7.
The prospects for UK dividend growth are encouraging and the portfolio is well positioned to take advantage of continued growth in emerging markets from its bias towards industrial companies.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
