6 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We have a great platform for the future and have established a strong financial and operational trajectory.
I am confident that we will be able to grow the business further over the coming years.
My second annual statement as Chairman 28 February 2011 we will exceed the mortgage In 2010, the UK Government appointed The of Lloyds Banking Group comes to you and business lending commitments made by Independent Commission on Banking ICB at the end of another challenging year, a the Group to the UK Government.
to review structural measures to reform the year in which we have turned the corner to banking system and promote stability and We have also recently announced, along profitability.
In doing so, we made substantial competition.
The ICB is not expected to with four other major UK banks and in progress towards creating a strong and stable publish its final report until September 2011 the context of an agreement with the UK bank, one better able to serve our customers.
although an important precursor of that will be Government, our intent to help support the Only by focusing on their needs and offering the interim report expected to be published in UK economic recovery by jointly providing them products and services that address those April.
It would be premature for me to seek to the capacity to support gross new lending needs, can we expect to be successful and predict the outcome of the enquiry: however, of 190 billion to creditworthy UK businesses deliver benefit to you our shareholders and discussions between ourselves and the ICB including 76 billion to small and medium to our stakeholders at large.
have been collaborative and constructive and sized businesses.
As the largest UK focused we will welcome the increased certainty that bank, we are determined to play a full role Supporting the UKs economic recovery the reports recommendations should bring.
in supporting investment by UK businesses Although 2010 brought some increase in and households.
Lending is one of our core Our community global confidence and stability, the banking business functions and it is in our interest and industry continued to operate amidst that of our shareholders that we make access Through the financial services we provide to challenging conditions.
to responsible credit as easy as possible.
our customers and the support we give to the businesses that people work for, Lloyds As we emerge from the financial crisis and At the same time, as a responsible lender, we Banking Group plays a role in the lives of the economic downturn, we recognise the will seek to ensure that we lend to customers nearly everyone in the UK.
public concern surrounding the banking who can afford to repay their borrowing and to industry and know we have much work businesses that have a fundamentally sound Our main contribution to society is the direct to do as an industry to rebuild trust and business model.
These are principles to which economic impact on the economy we have understanding.
We also acknowledge the we must adhere.
as a major employer and purchaser of goods role that we at Lloyds Banking Group must and services.
This economic contribution Regulation play in that process.
We can only earn that is supported by our active investment in trust by addressing the fundamentals, for communities across the country and our The level of industry regulation and its all our stakeholders, and by being open, community giving programme.
We invested speed of change has never been greater.
transparent and engaged in the broader 148 million in communities across the Shareholders will be aware of a number of debate about the role of banking in the UK.
UK in 2010 including support for financial strategic initiatives which are likely to change We need to demonstrate that we are meeting inclusion, sponsorship of sports for young the shape of our industry, including the our obligations to customers and society by people and donations through the Groups changes to capital requirements arising from proactively and responsibly channelling the charitable foundations.
Basel III and the fundamental changes to the deposits we gather into productive enterprises regulatory environment in the UK, to highlight Our partnership of the London 2012 Olympic and households.
Robust and stable regulation and Paralympic Games will bring the Games Banks have a central role in promoting and will be an important component in rebuilding to life in the heart of communities all over fuelling the economic recovery.
We will confidence and trust and creating a healthy Britain and 2011 will be an exciting year in the continue to play our part in supporting UK and sound financial system.
However, we need countdown to 2012.
Since the launch of our growth by extending a significant amount of to ensure that banks are allowed to fulfil their Local Heroes programme we have supported new lending to businesses and households.
core purpose in delivering a smooth flow of 600 athletes.
We have also pledged 1 billion We have provided nearly 80 billion of gross credit to the economy.
That means meeting of funding to help businesses benefit from lending to UK homeowners and businesses banks obligations to businesses, by helping London 2012 Games associated opportunities.
in 2010 and, as part of our SME charter, the them to invest, expand, export, innovate, In this way we have supported one in three Group is committed to helping 300,000 up-skill their workforce, win new contracts and of all businesses who have won London 2012 new start-up businesses by the end of 2012. diversify their business models.
For individuals, Olympic Games related contracts.
We have already helped over 100,000 such it means supporting their financial needs over enterprises during 2010.
For the year ended their lifetime.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 7 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Performance Remuneration 1 March 2011.
The Board and I look forward to working with him to ensure the success of As an organisation, we have made considerable Following on from the unprecedented the next stage of development of the Group, progress in 2010, delivering good growth in turmoil across the sector in 2008 and 2009, and I hope many of you will be able personally our core business, returning to profitability the increased focus on remuneration has to meet him at our annual general meeting in and reducing the risk in the business.
In the context of Glasgow on Wednesday 18 May 2011. integration of the HBOS business continues the evolving economic environment and to progress well and we remain confident of regulatory changes, the Remuneration Changes to the Board achieving our target of run-rate synergy benefits Committee undertook a further review of In addition to the changes previously of 2 billion per annum by the end of 2011, executive remuneration in 2010.
We firmly outlined during the year we have continued a substantial achievement.
believe that remuneration policy needs to to strengthen the Board both in terms of incentivise executives to continue strong, In working diligently to create long term in-depth banking experience and broader sustainable growth and delivery of value to sustainable shareholder value we aim to business perspectives.
On 1 March 2010, two shareholders, in light of one of the biggest restore our ability to pay dividends on ordinary new Non-Executive Directors were appointed, integrations ever undertaken in the sector.
shares as soon as market conditions and the Glen Moreno and David Roberts, and Anita The Committee equally however is mindful financial performance of the Group permit.
As Frew joined the Board on 1 December 2010. of the continued heightened awareness you know this intention is subject to the expiry in the public domain around executive We are delighted that these three outstanding in 2012 of the restrictions arising from the remuneration.
Both these considerations individuals have agreed to contribute their European Commissions remedies.
informed the Committees decisions on judgement and varied expertise to our Board.
Following the recapitalisation of the banking remuneration this year and that for Antnio On a personal front I am also pleased that sector, HM Treasury now holds approximately Horta-Osrio, our new Group Chief Executive.
we have expanded the proportion of women 40.6 per cent of the equity capital of the on the Board and I expect that process The Group is primarily a retail and commercial Group.
We are grateful and appreciative for to continue.
This means that the payout under our the valuable support we have received from Group bonus schemes for 2010 is a small Dr Wolfgang Berndt retired at the annual Government and through it the taxpayer, but percentage of overall revenues.
Though general meeting in May 2010, having joined our objective remains for the Group over time profitability increased substantially our total the Board in 2003.
I would like to thank him for to operate as a wholly privately owned selfcompensation for 2010 is lower than that for 2009. his significant contribution to the Group.
Our most senior management including our Group Chief Executive People Executive Directors, have made extraordinary On 28 February 2011, Eric Daniels will retire efforts both in terms of their time, involvement I have enjoyed meeting many colleagues as Group Chief Executive and Director of and personal contribution in achieving these in various visits to our operations all over Lloyds Banking Group plc and, in line with his results.
I thank all of them for their loyalty in the country over the past year.
Gaining an contractual commitments, will retire from the difficult circumstances.
on-the-spot insight into how they work to Group in September 2011.
His knowledge serve our stakeholders by building long term The full particulars and background of all our of the Group and our customers will, I am relationships with our customers and by Directors are set out on pages 110 and 111. pleased to say, remain available to the Board supporting businesses has been invaluable.
and myself as required until then.
Outlook I must tell you that I have been impressed by their desire to work together to ensure the The Board and I are grateful to Eric Daniels for The successful execution of our strategy success of our integration, by their discipline his leadership since June 2003, particularly since demands from us focus on core markets, on and focus and by their commitment to their the announcement of the acquisition of HBOS customer engagement, on cost leadership, customers.
It is clear that in our large and in September 2008.
The successful integration on capital efficiency and on a prudent risk occasionally complex Group, teamwork of the two companies and the sooner than and funding profile.
Carried out well these combined with commitment, professionalism expected return to profitability of the enlarged attributes should enable the Group to deliver and hard work is the key to realising our Lloyds Banking Group are testament to his earnings growth and shareholder value whilst promises to stakeholders.
leadership during a time of unprecedented achieving our aim of becoming recognised as financial turmoil.
It is to Erics credit that the Our people have faced a difficult year with the best financial services company in the UK.
Group is in a strong position for the next great commitment and purpose.
It is not We have a great platform for the future phase of its development.
I personally have easy or pleasant to work for a group which is and have established a strong financial and valued greatly the considerable management, continuously in the media headlines.
I am confident that we banking and organisational expertise Eric more so when the delivery of our day-to-day will be able to grow the business further over has brought to Lloyds Banking Group as banking and personal financial services are, in the coming years with Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive.
numerous surveys of our customers, judged to at the helm leading our 112,000 colleagues be at the very top or near it.
On behalf of the In November we announced the appointment a dedicated workforce and an experienced Board I thank our colleagues for their significant of Antnio Horta-Osrio as the next Group management team.
achievements in 2010, which from letters and Chief Executive.
He brings with him deep emails I receive, are as much appreciated by experience in, and understanding of, the Sir Winfried Bischoff our shareholders as our customers.
UK retail and commercial banking industry, Chairman as well as a track record of integrating three well respected UK retail banking franchises.
Antnio joined us in January 2011 and took over as Group Chief Executive on
