Introduction Chairmans statement Over the course of the past year, we have seen a gradual re-emergence of more normalised markets and trends.
Equity valuations, for instance, have risen throughout the year.
And the volatility that characterised and drove trading volumes in the previous year has diminished significantly.
Market and Operating Environment The financial crisis has underlined the fundamental role of an exchange.
Unlike other parts of the financial markets, we have continued to function well.
Throughout the crisis, companies have raised unprecedented amounts of equity capital, and investors from around the globe have been able to trade in and out of assets on our markets.
Moreover, our brand and the position of London as a primary market venue remain strong, as is clear from the recent increase in Initial Public Offering activity.
Nevertheless, the market and operating environment for our business has remained challenging.
For instance, the rise in equity valuations has not yet been matched by an equivalent The economic, competitive and increase in client trading activity, and the pick up in volumes has not been consistent across all markets.
In addition, we are regulatory environment in which contending with other trading platforms that offer services we operate has been the subject of priced at levels which, on a standalone basis, currently appear continued change in the past 12 months, economically unsustainable.
a trend which is almost certain to Regulatory Change continue for some time.
The Group is The Group operates in a market environment in which external responding quickly to these important factors weigh heavily, in particular the prospect of significant challenges, and enacting a number of changes to regulation, at domestic and international levels.
While its own changes to contend with the we have gained some sense of the direction these changes may take, details are far from concrete.
new circumstances within our industry and to take advantage of the Among the many regulatory reviews, both the effectiveness opportunities available to us.
and unintended consequences of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID will be the subject of a review during 2010.
Alongside greater competition, the concomitant fragmentation has impeded market transparency and potentially market quality.
These changes are likely to have a significant impact on the structure of the EU marketplace.
In the post trade arena, there is much debate about the regulation of clearing houses, the greater use of central counterparties CCP to reduce systemic risk and calls for greater interoperability among CCPs.
As both a user and an owner of post trade services, we have an acute interest in the outcome of such discussions, which are likely to have a bearing on the quality, attractiveness and integrity of the wider services we provide.
However, as one of Europes most cost efficient providers of post trade services, with a track record of promoting post trade competition, including the introduction of interoperability between clearers in our trading services, we believe we have an authentic voice and are well positioned to lead reform in this part of the industry.
08 London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information dividEnd PER ShaRE Financial Performance pence The financial performance of the Group reflects the ongoing headwinds facing our business together with some delayed effects of the financial crisis.
24.4p Despite these challenges, we have remained strongly profitable.
Moreover, while the financial performance in 2009 10 reflects 2009: 24.4 peNce much of the cost of actions taken to improve our competitive position and put in place the building blocks of future growth, it does not yet reflect the benefits.
The Board believes it is right to maintain a conservative approach to the dividend by maintaining it at last years level.
Consequently, we propose to pay a final dividend of 16p per share More broadly, following the financial markets crisis it remains to in August, bringing the total for the year to 24.4p per share.
be seen what new restrictions may be imposed on banks capital requirements, or indeed the types of activities in which certain Board Changes institutions may be allowed to engage.
At the year end, Massimo Capuano, Group Deputy CEO, resigned from the Company.
Massimo leaves with the best wishes of the We remain actively engaged in these debates, as their outcome Board and staff for his years of service leading Borsa Italiana, will affect our clients and therefore our business, in potentially and his role in the enlarged group following the merger.
both positive and negative ways.
However, we are also critically focused on those actions over which we have control.
We have also reviewed the composition of the Board see Governance Section and expect to announce the appointment Strategic Development of new Non-Executive Directors in the near future.
The Board is focused on the development of the Groups strategic capability and operational efficiency as ways of dealing with, and Conclusion ultimately benefiting from, this climate.
The market, economic and regulatory environment in which our business operates is going through a period of significant change.
Since his appointment as Group CEO last year, Xavier Rolet We continue to take steps to ensure the business remains central has been implementing a number of changes in a short period to capital markets, competing for business as an efficient, low to reposition your business to meet both todays challenges and cost and client focused organisation with a clear strategy to the opportunities we see in the future.
Chief amongst these deliver growth and value.
We remain deeply focused on our milestones, Xavier has put in place an international management strategic capabilities at the Board and Management levels team of experienced capital markets and technology specialists and continue to engage in our pursuit of sustainable shareholder with track records of delivery.
value that benefits the broad range of clients and stakeholders we serve.
The primary focus of the Groups executive management has been to improve our competitiveness in this changing environment.
Consequently, we have looked at our product mix, our technical capabilities, our operational efficiency and the quality of our client relationships, and assessed them alongside those of our main competitors, existing and emerging.
Chris Gibson-Smith chairman During the year, we took a number of actions to improve our efficiency and competitiveness.
We reduced our headcount by 12 per cent during the summer of 2009.
We also committed to upgrading our in-house technology capabilities with the acquisition of MillenniumIT, an innovative software development company based in Sri Lanka, which will provide new trading technology to the Group, as well as to third parties in the capital markets.
Our decision to partner with 12 of our leading banking clients, to develop pan-European services through our acquisition of Turquoise, was an important milestone in improving a number of often complex relationships with our clients.
We believe that our ability to deliver long-term shareholder value depends on creating and maintaining deep, constructive relationships with those clients with whom we collectively serve investors and issuers.
London Stock ExchangE gRoUP AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 09
