02 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Chairmans Review through 2010 we will be overseeing important The financial year 2009 10 saw widespread initiatives to ensure we realise the full potential of AHL, develop other quantitative styles and questioning and analysis of the factors which optimise our fund operating model.
had led to the financial crisis of 2008 09, Capital and dividends global debate on regulatory reform and a Investors were also very interested in our plans for the use of our surplus capital and sharp focus on the proper role, functioning future dividend policy.
The strength of our balance sheet sustained the business well and behaviours of company boards.
It has enabled us to maintain the total dividend for 2009 10 at the previous years level and has given us a strong Against this background, we have continued development of proposals tailored to Mans financial base from which to explore long term to strengthen and broaden the skill set and business model.
Provided that our experience of our Board and to review and strong regulatory capital and liquidity profile is develop the way we govern the Company Executive reward preserved, our overwhelming conviction and communicate with investors.
Executive reward continues to be a strategy has always been to invest in future subject of widespread legitimate concern growth.
The proposed acquisition of GLG Board development and earlier this year the Remuneration delivers squarely on this strategy.
Following closely on the retirement of Glen Committee conducted an extensive Moreno and the succession of Alison consultation with major shareholders on In parallel to the proposed acquisition of GLG, Carnwath as Senior Independent Director the new structures they had developed.
we have reviewed our dividend policy, the in July, the Board was joined by two new We believe that the new performance guiding principle being that our dividend non-executive directors, Ruud Hendriks and measures adopted for our incentive should be rebased at a sustainable level.
Both individuals were recruited schemes are vital value drivers for the have brought forward our decision on the level to enrich the Board with broader investment business and that the substantial increase of full year dividend for 2010 11 and have management and client development in the deferred element of our Executive announced our intention to recommend a total experience and were appointed following Directors compensation structure serves to dividend of at least 22 cents per share for that an extensive search and thorough interview strengthen their focus on long-term success year.
Our intention is to adopt a progressive process.
Together they bring a valuable and alignment with shareholders.
dividend policy from here forward.
diversity of view to Board debate and decision making.
Ruud has life long experience of Strategy development Risk management working within large organisations developing Strategy development was a recurrent and 2010 will see greater focus on another area products for the institutional investor.
Fred important theme in my meetings with investors.
of concern for investors and regulators alike, is a seasoned builder of businesses with Our Board strategy reviews have progressed the management of risk.
The Board has entrepreneurial vision and approach.
Both from being budget centred and informed by always determined the Companys risk received an extensive and in-depth induction detailed management presentation to being appetite in quantitative and qualitative from our fund management, product driven by an agenda set by Board members terms and has reserved for its consideration structuring and corporate teams to help themselves which looks to the longer-term and decision any proposed business leverage their knowledge and contribution direction and time horizon of the business.
developments which have the potential to to the business.
threaten or breach those limits.
We will, In 2009, the Board oversaw the integration however, be reviewing, in the context of the Board governance and investor of the fund of funds business to protect our Walker and FSA recommendations, the way communications customer franchise.
In May 2010, I was in which we discharge our oversight of the The Board also benefited during the year from delighted to announce Man's proposed identification, management and mitigation of the added value offered by strengthened acquisition of GLG.
The combination of our risk within the business.
This will include a corporate functions.
The Secretariat has been two businesses will create a powerful new review of how we oversee both corporate instrumental in streamlining Board Committee group with enormous potential, marrying risks and those arising in the investment focus and membership, improving governance GLGs highly regarded expertise in management process and consideration of and delivering effective process.
Investor discretionary investing with Mans quantitative the respective roles and activities of the Audit Relations have facilitated a series of meetings skills and world class distribution and product and Risk Committee and the full Board.
at which I was able to hear at first hand the structuring.
Importantly, it will result in a feedback and concerns of our major investors significantly enhanced product offering for Board culture and give them a sense of the dynamic of the investors and a more diversified source of Much has been made of the importance of Board and its thinking.
Our HR function has income for shareholders.
My Board colleagues Board behaviours as a significant contributory supported the Remuneration Committees and I unanimously believe that this is a very factor in recent corporate failures and various major and detailed review of the structure of exciting transaction and have strongly studies have been commissioned to provide our executive director remuneration and the recommended it to shareholders.
In addition, guidance in this area.
While robust structures 03 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Jon Aisbitt our Chairman was appointed a non-executive director in August 2003 and non-executive Chairman in September 2007.
He was previously a Partner and Managing Director in the Investment Banking Division of Goldman Sachs and has 20 years experience in international corporate finance.
and protocols are essential for the promotion Mans acquisition of GLG of good governance, it is the orchestration and interplay of well informed individuals with diverse personalities, experiences and On 17 May this year, we announced our proposed outlooks which is the bigger influence on the acquisition of GLG.
GLG is a leading global multi-strategy effectiveness of Boards and their decision making.
Comments made in the course of investment manager with around $24 billion in FUM and this years Board evaluation highlighted the a low style correlation to managed futures.
The transaction contribution and challenge of our nonexecutives, particularly those new to the would position Man as the industry leader in liquid, Board, and the positive impact of an effective alternative investment strategies with FUM of $63 billion.
My aim as Chairman is to build and develop this key relationship based on an appropriate balance of business knowledge, support and We believe the transaction is compelling for T he subsequent organic build out of challenge and to foster in the boardroom a our fund investors, for our employees and for discretionary investment strategies by the culture of open and candid debate which our shareholders.
For our investors, the combined business questions received wisdom and where combination will provide comprehensive and no subject is off limits.
compelling investment solutions worldwide, GLGs three principals Noam Gottesman, providing the acumen and flexibility investors Pierre Lagrange and Emmanuel Roman will Succession planning are seeking in todays rapidly changing receive substantially all their consideration in In our recent Board evaluation, succession markets.
For employees, we believe the Man shares and they have undertaken, for a planning was once again identified as a key combined firm will be a magnet for industry number of years, to hold these shares and to business enabler and target for further talent, with investment teams benefitting from continue to be substantial investors in GLG development.
It is essential that we have the more diverse sources of client assets and funds, underscoring their confidence and right people in the right roles to create and distribution teams able to bring broader commitment in the combined firm.
deliver a sustainable business, both at Board offerings to market.
Shareholders will access level and as supporting senior management strategic and commercial benefits through Man has identified annual potential cost resource.
The promotion of management savings of approximately $50 million, with depth and ambition must be a key area of The combination of two established one third expected to be achieved in the focus.
We are working to recruit additional top investment management businesses with financial year ending in 2011 and the balance level investment management expertise to complementary investment strategies and expected in the first six months of the strengthen our current capability and to the integration of their sales, structuring financial year ending in 2012.
As stated in develop a robust succession plan for the and operations teams the announcement dated 17 May 2010, executive team.
the acquisition is expected to be earnings A complementary geography of accretive in the financial year ending in 2012 Sustainability distribution franchises and fund investors, and earnings neutral in the financial year Ensuring the sustainability of the business and offering the opportunity to market ending in 2011. winning the trust of our shareholders and products into new markets and to new stakeholders are fundamental to the role of groups of investors The transaction will require the approval of the Board and the success of Man.
We are Man and GLG shareholders and is subject fully engaged in the debate with our regulators The potential of the enlarged group to to the usual regulatory approvals.
We on the development of a robust risk and add significant incremental funds under are targeting formal completion of the control framework and a proportionate management through combining GLGs transaction by the end of September of response to current reviews and proposals for investment offering with Mans structuring this year.
the governance of our sector.
We also and distribution expertise recognise the need to contribute to the Further details of the transaction and on economic growth of the community at large The low correlation of performance GLG are set out in the press release dated 17 and to help build prosperity for the future.
between the quantitative investment style May 2010 and the related presentation on the Transparency and open communication are of Man and the discretionary investment Man Group website.
Man shareholders will, an essential part of good governance and style of GLG, creating new high margin in due course, receive a circular inviting them corporate responsibility.
Our aim in this report products for distribution and providing to a meeting to approve the transaction.
is to give a clear account of how we ran the greater stability in performance fee business in 2009 10 and of how we plan to prospects.
deploy and develop our strengths to deliver our objectives in 2010 11.
A combined product offering, with an emphasis on liquid strategies, well Jon Aisbitt positioned to benefit from the expected Chairman continued growth in onshore products globally
