PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 06 Chairmans statement The spread of regulation across the EU continued Unrivalled strength in 2010 and will most likely continue throughout thisyear and beyond.
This will bring about change and depth in all of and challenges from a business perspective, but this is nothing new for our Company.
Our merger our products gives with bwin means that we are in a strong position to prosper in the face of these challenges and usconfidence.
can exploit what is set to be an exciting shift intothe next stage of the online gaming industrysdevelopment.
party enter new regulated markets both in Europe as well as the United States, should legislators, either at federal or state level, allow Americans to take part in gaming online under the protection of a safe and secure regulatory regime.
Rod Perry The enlarged bwin.
party group will have unrivalled Chairman strength and depth in all four of online gamings main product verticals of sports betting, poker, casino and bingo.
PartyGaming and bwin also bring healthy balance sheets, both are cash generative and have strong brand portfolios.
Thisisunderpinned by a wealth of talent across the combined business that underscores our decision to put a seal on our merger plans last July, almost two years after our first exploratory discussions took place.
PartyGamings ambition to become the global As Jim Ryan, Chief Executive Officer of leader in online gaming became reality in 2010 PartyGaming, states in his review of 2010 on pages when we sealed our transformational merger with 8 to 13, we have remained fully focused on our bwin, one of the industrys great success stories.
The primary Investors in both companies voted overwhelmingly objective was to become the worlds most infavour of all resolutions relating to the merger at valuable listed online gaming company and to their respective extraordinary general meetings become a leader in sports betting the merger that took place in January 2011.
The enlarged with bwin delivers on both of these strategic goals.
company, to be called bwin.
party digital entertainment plc bwin.
party, begins its life at I would like to acknowledge the vision and the end of March 2011 and I believe it can look dedication of the executive and senior forward to a successful future.
management team, supported by the tireless effortsof our employees, to turn our merger plans bwin, best known for its sports betting operations, intoreality.
Mergers are labour intensive and hasbeen at the vanguard of the industrys push require huge intellectual, emotional and physical tobe allowed to offer its services freely across effort, but from the very moment we made our borders inthe European Union where legislation in formal merger announcement our management individual Member States has lagged behind the and employees moved up through the gears and technological and operational advances made continued to deliver on our strategic plan.
At no byonline gaming companies.
time did we reduce our standards of excellence and quality thathave been at the very heart of the Groups long-term success.
indd 6 17 05 2011 13:12 s r o it t e p m o C e e t n t e s t c i m s i r m e e h i l g p t a p E m u g S n o E C rs o t a l u g e R t h g i s r e v s O e e e y e o l t p t t i m i E d m u m A o s t t n n C e e m m n e r e g v a o n G a M PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 Overview 07 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information PartyGaming is changing and so too is my role.
Our system of Governance Ihave enjoyed my time as Chairman since being appointed to the post in August 2008.
Simon Duffy, who has a wealth of business experience, will become the Chairman of bwin.
party and I very much look forward to working with him in my newcapacity as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director to ensure that the full benefits of the merger are delivered for shareholders.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity in mylast Chairmans statement to pay tribute PartyGaming toStephen Box, who served us well as a Board Non-Executive Director and sadly died prematurely in early 2010.
Dividends Whilst optimistic about the outlook, given the widerange of opportunities that can benefit theenlarged group, in accordance with the termsof the merger implementation agreement entered into at the time the merger with bwin wasannounced, the Board isnot recommending a final dividend for 2010.
However, the board Outlook ofbwin.
party will look to establish a dividend Our merger with bwin will present many new policy for the enlarged group assoon as the opportunities.
The enlarged Group, with its merger is completed.
increased scale, broad portfolio of brands, Governance strongbalance sheet and increased capacity Our management controls and procedures are toinnovate will allow us to leverage these ingrained throughout all aspects of our business.
opportunities as we enter a period of Thefour Board committees ensured that unprecedented regulatory transition.
The PartyGaming maintained high standards of gameischanging and we are ready to play.
professionalism as well as business ethics in 2010.
Further details about our approach to corporate governance and reports ofthe Nominations, Audit, Ethics and Remuneration Committees can be found on pages 45 to 71.
In addition to the formal financial and regulatory audits that we undertake, our policies and procedures have also historically been subject to an independent assessment by GoodCorporation, which has gained worldwide recognition as one of the leading organisations working in the field of corporate responsibility and business ethics.
Following our announced merger with bwin we chose not to conduct an assessment in 2010, but continued to address areas identified in its 2009 10 report.
Post-completion of the merger with bwin we expect to conduct a formal review of the enlarged Groups policies and procedures.
Furtherdetails about our approach to stakeholder management and some of the actions we undertook in 2010 can be found on pages 33 to 39.
