2 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chairmans Statement Over the year to 31st January 2010, the 125th year since the Company was founded, the Companys total return on net assets ie with net income reinvested was 56.3%, which compares with a return of 57.6% from the Companys benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment trusts.
Although this performance reflects a very substantial return, it is marginally behind the Companys performance benchmark.
The reason for this is that dividends paid and accrued have necessitated a dip into reserves to the value of 13 million, which has reduced the total return on net assets by 2.0% thereby reducing the reported performance figure to a level below the benchmark.
As you will read in the Investment Managers Statement, conditions in the financial markets globally have been extremely tough, though during the year the Stock Market has experienced its largest gain since 1993.
The Companys performance has at certain points of the year looked strong against the benchmark, and at others, looked weak.
During the year Standard and Poors reviewed the Companys credit rating in relation to its debenture and it remained unchanged at AA with a stable outlook reflecting the well diversified portfolio.
Returns and Dividends Return per share decreased by 44.5% for the year, from 41.73p to 23.18p, due to a reduction in dividend income and a significantly lower level of deposit interest income.
The successful underwriting of more than 300 million of new capital raisings assisted income by some 4.0 million 3.9p per share.
The Company has paid three interim dividends of 6.0p per ordinary share, and the Directors have declared a fourth quarterly interim dividend of 18.0p, giving a total dividend of 36.0p for the year, maintaining last years dividend of 36.0p.
The Board recognises, as in previous years, that it is essential to make an appropriate distribution, which both meets shareholders legitimate expectations, and is prudent in the light of what may be continuing difficult times ahead.
The Board intends therefore to continue to pay three interim dividends at the current rate of 6.0p per ordinary share throughout the year ending 31st January 2011.
The level of the fourth quarterly interim dividend will be determined by the Board based on the level of income received by the Company during the year and with regard to the Companys revenue reserve of 27.5p per share.
VAT Case Following the recovery, in 2008, of just over 10 million, including interest, of VAT incorrectly paid to HMRC, there have been two further developments.
A landmark case, VIC GLO, was decided in the High Court where the Court found that interest on incorrectly paid VAT should have been paid on a compound, rather than a simple basis, although in that particular case the taxpayer did not benefit owing to limitation issues.
Given that some of your Companys refunds stretch back to 1990, the effect of compounding over such a long period, if the principles in the VIC GLO case are confirmed by higher courts, will add materially to the sums already recovered.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 The second development has been the launch of an action against HMRC to recover the VAT that should never have been paid for the years 1997 to 2000 but which, so far, HMRC has refused to repay.
Together with a number of other investment trusts, we are party to and are helping fund the action.
As with the earlier case, it could well be five years or more before the matter is finally decided.
Our costs are capped at a relatively modest fee, whilst the possible recovery could materially exceed 2 million plus interest.
Although there is no guarantee of success, your Board decided that the risk reward ratio was such that it was in the interests of shareholders to participate.
Share Price Discount The share price rose by 45.1% during the year and, including dividends paid, the total return to shareholders was 51.6%.
The discount to net asset value with debt at fair value at year end was 14.5% compared to 9.2% the previous year.
The average daily discount, with debt at fair value, during the year, was 10.5%.
Share Repurchases During the year under review a total of 374,000 shares were repurchased for cancellation, amounting to 0.37% of issued share capital at the beginning of the year, at a total cost of 3.3 million.
Share repurchases during the year under review have added approximately 0.5 pence to the net asset value per share.
The Boards objective remains to use the share repurchase authority to manage imbalances between the supply and demand of the Companys shares, thereby reducing the volatility of the discount.
The Board believes that, to date, this mechanism has been helpful and therefore proposes and recommends that the powers to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys shares for cancellation be renewed for a further period.
Gearing The Company ended the year with gearing of 111.9%.
During the year the gearing varied between 104% and 114%.
It is the Boards intention to continue to operate within the range of 90% to 120% invested, under normal market conditions, although at the present time, the Board is maintaining gearing at the lower end of the range.
Board Following the vacancy created by the sad loss of Richard Hambro in April 2009, the Board appointed Sir Richard Beckett QC as a Director with effect from 1st September 2009.
The shareholders will be asked to elect Sir Richard at the forthcoming AGM.
Sir Richard brings his legal knowledge and experience to the Boards affairs and has already proved to be a valuable member of the team.
This year Sandy Nairn and Ian Russell offer themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, having last been re-elected three years ago.
Sandy has a wealth of investment experience, and Ian, as Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Director carries out his role extremely effectively.
Having been a Director for more than nine years, in accordance with the Boards policy, I offer myself for re-election on an annual basis, and will accordingly stand for re-election at the AGM.
4 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chairmans Statement continued The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its performance, and that of the individual Directors including myself as the Chairman, and the Boards Committees.
The Directors conduct an assessment of performance each year, which is compiled into a report to the Nomination Committee.
Investment Managers The Companys investment management team comprises Martin Hudson, who was appointed in 1993, and Jane Lennard, who was appointed in 2006.
The Board continues to monitor the performance of the Manager on a regular basis.
Annual General Meeting The Companys one hundred and twenty fourth Annual General Meeting will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday 19th May 2010 at 12 noon.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
The meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch which will give shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMAM.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at the meeting.
Please submit in writing any detailed questions that you wish to raise at the AGM to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ or via the website at www.
co. uk click on AGM calendar.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM in person are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Outlook The UK stock market performed strongly during the year for reasons which have little to do with the economic climate in the UK, but are due more to the fact that the market had fallen to completely unrealistic levels and the fiscal stimulus and quantitative easing programmes that the government has undertaken.
The performance was also partly due to the fact that the banking system globally has stabilised somewhat.
The main factors likely to affect markets in the UK over the coming year are the probable weakness of Sterling due to continuing gross fiscal imbalance and a lack of political will to resolve the position.
Paradoxically this may help equity markets in the UK.
By contrast, the continuing reluctance of the banking system to lend money will tend to restrict the normal growth of companies in the UK.
Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman 31st March 2010 For further information, please contact: Juliet Dearlove For and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited Secretary 020 7742 6000
