02 Today & Tomorrow Chairmans review Sir Richard Lapthorne In a year of challenging and often unpredictable conditions, our business has performed resiliently, with operating cash flow rising 9% and three of our four business units improving EBITDA.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 03 Introduction out of 3 4 Business units increased EBITDA 9% Increase in operating cash flow a strong earnings and cash flow track record.
It gives me great pleasure to be introducing The history of Cable the first Annual Report of Cable & Wireless Over the last four years the business has & Wireless goes back progressed its earnings and repatriated Communications.
Cable & Wireless US$1.6 billion of cash.
The results for Our new Company was created just before 2009 10 stand up to this record.
Against the Communications willbuild the financial year end in March, after the backdrop of a sharp downturn in the onits very valuable legacy.
demerger of our sister business, Cable & Caribbean and economic fluctuations Wireless Worldwide.
across many of our other markets, as well as new competitive pressures, we reported This Annual Report sets out the information we are required to present on Cable & EBITDA of US$866 million and operating cash flow of US$484 million.
However, in some cases to be helpful to shareholders we have performance is testament to the skill and ingenuity of our employees in each market.
shown the results and policies over the full year during which we operated as Cable and I applaud them all.
Wireless plc before becoming Cable & Shareholders in the former Cable and Wireless Communications.
Wireless plc, who retain their shares in The results of Cable & Wireless Worldwide both demerged businesses will receive are shown as a discontinued operation on a 9.50 pence per share dividend for pages 89 to 91 of this report.
For more 2009 10, a 12% rise on the prior year.
details on these results you should access As we announced before the demerger, the Annual Report of Cable & Wireless both businesses are committed to paying Worldwide via www.
com attractive ongoing dividends on a sustainable basis an important component The demerger was the culmination of a long of total shareholder returns.
Cable & journey for the Cable & Wireless Group, but Wireless Communications is expected to one which has delivered outstanding value recommend an US 8 cents per share to shareholders.
dividend, or its equivalent in pence, for At the beginning of 2003, the Company 2010 11. was in a steep decline.
Our International The Cable & Wireless Communications business now Cable & Wireless Board will also continue the strong Communications was unfocused and commitment to corporate governance of underperforming, and our UK business Cable and Wireless plc.
Good behaviours now Cable & Wireless Worldwide was within the framework of a sensible code draining the cash we were producing.
The deliver strong and effective governance.
turnaround that has followed has Our Senior Independent Director reports been a victory for prudent management, on these behaviours on page 42. occasionally unorthodox thinking and the commitment of a team of talented The history of Cable & Wireless reaches managers.
It meant that at demerger back more than 140 years.
Cable & Wireless we were able to launch two stand-alone Communications will build on its very businesses, producing sustainable profits valuable legacy.
We have well established, and cash flows, with balance sheets market-leading businesses, and significant properly financed to support their needs.
As Chairman of the Company, I look forward with confidence.
Cable & Wireless Communications has long been a business with high quality assets and Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
