The Merchants Trust PLC Chairmans Statement Market and Portfolio Background Last year saw a welcome recovery in share prices, but at the same time an almost unprecedented fall in the level of dividends declared by UK companies, particularly in the financial sector, as a result of the crisis which began in the Summer of 2007 and which is still not played out.
Results The net asset value per share increased by 21.8% to 372.8p and the total return per share, including dividends paid, was 29.2%.
This compares with the total returns of 30.4% and 24.7% recorded by the FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, respectively.
The full performance breakdown is shown on page 5.
Over the year, the Trusts share price rose by 16.7% from 282.0p to 329.1p, having hit a low of 222.0p last March.
At 6 April 2010, the Trusts ordinary shares yielded 6.1% compared with the yield on the FTSE 100 Index of 3.2%.
Earnings per share Earnings per share fell by 30.6% to 18.91p, principally because of the dividend cuts to which I have already referred.
This years earnings include a VAT refund amounting to 476,000 including interest 2009 1,806,000.
Excluding the two VAT refunds, the net return attributable to Ordinary Shareholders fell by 27.4%.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final ordinary dividend of 5.7p per share, payable on 14 May 2010 to Shareholders on the register on 16 April 2010.
This payment would give a total of 22.5p for the year, an increase of 0.9% over the total for the previous year.
In order to meet the payment it has been necessary to transfer 3,724,961 3.6p per share from our reserves.
As at 31 January 2010 and after providing for this transfer, the Trusts reserves amounted to 14,408,093 14.0p per share.
Gearing and Balance Sheet The Trust has remained fully invested throughout the markets downturn and its subsequent recovery.
The investment objective of the Trust is clearly stated on the opposite page: it follows that in the Boards view the allocation of assets by shareholders as between equities and other forms of investment should be a matter for them and not for the Trust.
Moreover, the principal long term aim of the Trust is to generate growth in dividends and a sale of part of the equity portfolio would compromise this objective, given the low levels of return currently available on cash deposits or UK government securities.
As a consequence of the Trust remaining fully invested, the book value of our long term debt as a percentage of our net assets rose to a peak of 46% in March of last year before falling back to just below 30% at the year end.
In the light of this, and as anticipated in my last Chairmans Statement, the Board directed the fund managers to make use of exchange-traded options, on a relatively modest scale, with the object of protecting the portfolio in the event of a substantial fall in the market.
This was achieved through the sale of call options on a small part of our portfolio, the proceeds of which were used to purchase FTSE 100 put options at considerably lower than the then prevailing market levels.
This strategy would have provided a measure of protection had the market fallen to below 2600 on the FTSE 100, so that even at this level the managers would have been able to invest the portfolio primarily with a view to maximising investment returns rather than maintaining the necessary asset covers for our debentures.
Towards the end of the year, the Board concluded that the short-term threat to the financial system had reduced and that the purchase of the deep out of the money put options should be suspended.
The proceeds from the sale of any call options now taken out will be applied as an addition to the Trusts income.
VAT As mentioned above, we have received a refund of VAT in respect of the period 2000 to 2007 which, including interest, totals 1,249,000.
This figure has been incorporated in our results for the financial period under review.
Issue and Repurchase of Shares During the financial year we were able to issue 400,000 new shares at a premium to the net asset value.
No shares were bought back for cancellation.
However, as in previous years, the Board is proposing to renew the authority to repurchase shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
3 The Merchants Trust PLC Chairmans Statement The Board Since the last Annual General Meeting, Simon Fraser has joined the Board.
I am delighted that he has done so.
He has had an exceptionally successful career in the fund management industry: he is Chairman-elect of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust and since last year a nonexecutive director of Barclays.
This is my tenth annual statement to shareholders and it will be my last.
I believe that now is the right time for me to step down and I will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It is intended that Sir James Sassoon, currently Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, will succeed me as Chairman of the Trust.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Tuesday 11 May 2010 at 12.00 noon and we look forward to seeing as many shareholders then as are able to attend.
The ten years of my Chairmanship have not been all plain sailing.
During the period we have experienced two vicious bear markets.
Nevertheless, as indicated by the performance graph on page 15, over the decade the Merchants net asset value total return has been 4.67% per annum, compared with a total return from the FTSE 100 of 1.45% per annum.
We have not quite matched the return on our other benchmark, the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, but this index has an extremely high degree of inherent risk three companies alone account for nearly half the index.
Moreover we have been able to increase our dividend in every year and the Merchants dividend has grown in real, as well as nominal, terms.
I am very grateful to all those who have contributed to this record and who have supported the Trust in other ways during my Chairmanship and I wish them well.
