12 business revieW chairmans statement the market opportunity is there and We Will simply continue to Focus on relentless execution.
Friday 26 March 2010 is now a date to add to the If customers dont see an improvement then long and impressive history of Cable & Wireless.
it isnt happening, if shareholders dont see an Our demerger from Cable and Wireless plc on improvement they dont let you play its their that date marked the beginning of the latest money after all and if theres nothing in it for chapter in our 140 year history.
colleagues, then our key asset literally walks out the door.
When I joined this business more than four years ago, such a milestone seemed a very long way Our statistics tell our story away.
For many years previously, Cable&Wireless The faith our customers place in us continues Worldwide had struggled to define a role for itself in to increase.
We have not lost a major enterprise the rapidly changing communications industry it customer since the start of 2006.
The average had stuttered, if not stumbled.
contract length for these customers has increased by 22% and half of our gross margin now comes The process of regeneration started with Sir Richard from customers who trust us to provide Lapthornes arrival in 2003.
By the time of demerger a managed service.
the Cable & Wireless group had been transformed.
Contingent liabilities were avoided, the envelope Over the last four years we have led the delivery of our activities sharpened, the share price trebled of significant value for shareholders, as part of the and the Cable & Wireless group returned firmly to broader group.
The total shareholder return for profit.
This was a successful period in the Cable & Cable and Wireless plc was almost 65%, against Wireless groups history and I would like to extend 39% for the FTSE Global Telecoms Index and just my thanks and best wishes for the future to Sir 12% for the broader FTSE 100.
Richard and the continuing board of Cable & Colleagues in the business have become Wireless Communications.
increasingly engaged in the turnaround over the Our turnaround was about getting things done years, evidenced by the fact that the attrition rate execution.
Little had I realised that such an approach has halved over four years as our colleagues have played handsomely to our greatest strength, our led our customer service renaissance.
Passionate and talented yes, but more Thats not at all bad when you consider that for impressive by far was their unified commitment to the last 20 months of this journey weve been restoring the fortunes and reputation of the business.
tip-toeing our way through the sharpest recession This turnaround has been defined by the rapidly in a generation, a crunch whose full consequences improving outcome for three constituencies: are still playing out.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 13 But, if our turnaround is now largely complete, management team is a mix of those fire-tested the logical question is, where next?.
by the turnaround of this business plus the fresh eyes and insight of Tim Weller who joined as As we look forward, we do so knowing that our Chief Financial Officer in May.
We also start our operating environment regulation, competition, new existence with a strong balance sheet and technology trends, demand levels is good liquidity.
Certainly the rapid movements towards ever more bandwidth and network-centric Many of our achievements to date have been applications, such as cloud computing, offer delivered with a business which has been very real drivers for future growth.
The market constrained by its own past mediocrity we have opportunity is there and we will simply continue been swimming against the tide.
This is no longer to focus on relentless execution.
The industry trends and the business transformation over the last few years open up a Somebody once said that you cannot please all wealth of opportunities both in the UK and beyond.
of the people all of the time.
This is particularly true of the investment universe.
It can be difficult So, it is with great excitement and no lack of to reconcile the myriad of opinions and requests, ambition that we look to the future.
We are seeking and the flavour of the day changes before your to secure our market positions, to exploit the very eyes.
We have consistently delivered against opportunities we have built for ourselves and one simple mantra: if it doesnt create sustainable, to create a better outcome for customers, long term, shareholder value then we will not do it.
Our record to date, the best predictor of our future behaviour and performance, stands up to the closest scrutiny.
My role as a FTSE Chairman is new to me and I am intent on serving the Board, this business and its shareholders to the best of my abilities.
We take up our new challenges well equipped for the task John Pluthero and with momentum on our side, as our results Chairman from the past 12 months demonstrate.
Our Non-executive Directors, John Barton, Clive Butler and Penny Hughes, offer insight and robust challenge, borne out of experience.
