Chairmans Statement Performance The capital performance of your Company has been good over the year, despite a fall in the second half of the year.
The Net Asset Value total return was 26.4%, which compares well with the return on the benchmark FTSE AllShare Index of 21.1%.
In the second half of the year, these returns were -3.8% and -6.2% respectively.
There is some Patrick Gifford consolation in the fact that relative performance actually Chairman improved in the more difficult later period, and that the share price actually rose by 3.6% on a total return basis as Highlights the discount narrowed.
The income account, which is discussed in more detail below, showed a fall of 9.6% in Total Dividend increased by 0.9% to 28.00p earnings per share.
Your Managers have been careful not to Net Asset Value Total Return 26.4% chase high income at the expense of capital because growth Share Price Total Return 27.2% of the capital base is the only secure way by which we can ultimately maintain and grow our dividends over time.
The decline in the second half seems to have been due to the realisation that, although the apocalyptic concerns of early 2009 had largely been dealt with, there were still some serious problems to address, stemming from the fact that, although the debt burden had mostly been moved into stronger hands, it was still causing significant strains, whether at the corporate level, as with Dubai World, or the national level, as with Greece.
The last year has seen a gradual return towards normality in both the world and the UK economy.
By no means has a stable environment yet been reached, but there has been a return to growth and significant progress in dealing with the major imbalances which lie behind the dislocations of 2007- 9.
From its low point in the winter of 2008-9, in nominal terms, the world economy is estimated to have grown by around 6% and stands at a new peak.
In contrast, the UK economy has performed less well and, according to the latest data, despite recovering from its low point, is still approximately 4.5% below its previous high.
Unsurprisingly, growth has been strongest in those countries for whom overindebtedness was not a problem and weakest in those where this problem was most acute and has required most effort to rectify.
The UK, unfortunately, is in the latter category.
The policy response has been largely sensible, so that exceptionally low real and nominal interest rates have enabled household and corporate borrowers to improve their balance sheets, while demand has been sustained by a weak currency and government expenditure, at least until now.
Meantime the financial sector, which was at the centre of the storm has, however controversially, returned closer to health and should be in a position to finance growth if required to do so.
Over the last year, it has been unclear whether the contraction in private-sector lending that has taken place has been because of weakness of supply or demand.
Both have probably had an effect, but this state of affairs should gradually reverse.
4 Murray Income Trust PLC held on 27 October 2009.
Adrian Coats retired from the The quoted corporate sector has performed well over the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, and was succeeded in year.
Earnings have risen by 14% and balance sheets are his roles as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the generally healthy.
Some of this is due to recovery, some to Audit Committee by Humphrey van der Klugt.
continued cost-cutting and some to the strength of international end-markets of most major quoted companies Annual General Meeting in the UK.
A similar situation exists in other countries, so that the pain of the recession has primarily been felt at the The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Capital Suite, The Chamber of Commerce, 33 Queen Street, London EC4R household level.
1AP on Tuesday, 26 October 2010 at 12.30 p. m. The Notice of Annual General Meeting is on pages 56 to 59.
It is the Dividends Boards intention to hold the 2011 Annual General Meeting Your Board is very conscious that one of the most important in Glasgow.
features of Murray Income Trust is its ability to deliver a relatively high and rising dividend income to shareholders.
As at previous AGMs, there will be a presentation by the The last year has seen the impact of the 2008-9 recession in Managers and an opportunity to meet the Directors over dividends declared by UK companies in full force so that lunch following the AGM.
dividend income on the FTSE All-Share Index fell by 8% over the year, compared to a fall in the prior year, which Outlook encompassed the recession in real time, of 6%.
We have It is clear from even a cursory glance at the media that there taken advantage of attractive option pricing due to high is a great deal of uncertainty about the economic outlook, volatility to earn more income from the sale of options and both worldwide and, more specifically, in the UK.
The overthe VAT rebate has also been beneficial.
Nevertheless, we indebtedness of the US and a number of European countries, have used part of our substantial revenue reserves to propose including the UK, continues to act as a drag on economic a final dividend of 11.50 pence which will imply a small growth.
We now have a government that is keener than its increase in the dividend for the year of 0.9%.
The trading predecessor on ideological grounds to cut back government experience of the companies in our portfolio has improved debt.
The problem it faces is the risk that this ideology may and we are now seeing dividend increases again.
On present cause it to cut back spending faster than is pragmatically projections, we believe that, given stable economic desirable, and therefore risk a slip back into a recession.
Even conditions, we will be able steadily to rebuild dividend cover if this happens, it is unlikely to be as severe as the experience while at least maintaining the current level of dividend.
of 2008-9 because there has not been the build up of debt or enthusiastic spending.
Longer term, for the governments The importance of maintaining reserves has been highlighted policy to work, it needs to engineer a shift from taxation as a by the experience of the last two years and we are concerned source of funding for investment towards a higher rate of saving.
It is not clear whether society is yet prepared for this.
that one aspect of the governments proposals for the updating of the tax rules for investment trusts, which we The companies in which we invest are typically high-quality broadly welcome, might restrict our ability to retain income with strong balance sheets, relatively less cyclical businesses for use in circumstances like the present.
We and the and a high level of international diversification.
Although Association of Investment Companies are making such companies are not immune to economic cycles, their representations on this subject.
Our access to them has been helped by the changes to the investment policy VAT on Management Fees that now allows some investment in overseas companies.
During the year, the Company received repayment of The above characteristics of these companies in the UK and 818,000, representing an estimate of VAT charged on our overseas should enable them to perform relatively well in investment management fees between 2001 to 2003.
In what seems most likely to be a dull period for economic accordance with the Companys accounting policy, this sum growth.
It is also some comfort that they are not expensive has been credited 50% to revenue and 50% to capital.
In due on an average P E multiple of 11.5x with an average dividend course, we expect to be able to recognise further sums, once yield of 4.1%, which compares very well with insignificant there is greater certainty over the amounts recoverable by interest rates on cash, a redemption yield of 3.3% on tenthe Manager in respect of the VAT incurred on management year gilts and a real yield of just over 1% on index-linked fees for the period 1990 to 1996, and interest for that period gilts.
We are therefore optimistic that our portfolio will give and the periods 2001 to 2003, and 2004 to 2007. good real returns against comparable assets, even in these uncertain times.
Board Changes As shareholders will be aware from the Interim Board Report Patrick Gifford in the last Half-Yearly Report, David Woods was elected a Chairman Director at the last Annual General Meeting of the Company, 15 September 2010 Murray Income Trust PLC 5
