Chairmans Statement Union survived, but many structural problems remain unresolved.
The developing nations themselves were not without their problems as fast growth and pressure on world natural resources led to higher inflation in many, particularly China.
Governments in many of these nations raised interest rates to moderate growth and some introduced capital controls to deter the influx of foreign funds.
The Trust continued to emphasise those companies that were truly J F H Trott global in outlook and those able to take advantage of the Chairman above conditions.
Highlights Dividends Net Asset Value Total Return of 24.7% In 2010 we were able to increase the level of each of the Benchmark Total Return of 14.9% three interim dividends that were paid to 6.8p 2009 - 5.6p.
Total dividends excluding special interim increased by Your Board is now recommending a final dividend of 11.6p 18.5% compared with 2009 2009 - 10.2p which, subject to the approval of shareholders Special one-off interim dividend of 2.5p declared at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 16 May 2011 Shares trading at a premium to net asset value per to shareholders on the register on 8 April 2011.
Subject to Ordinary share for the whole year the approval of the final dividend, the total Ordinary 67m of new shares issued at a premium during the year dividends excluding the special dividend for the year will amount to 32p, an increase of 18.5% from last year 2009 - Performance 27p.
The Company has also declared a special interim I am pleased to report that the total return on net asset dividend refer to Repayment of VAT paragraph below of value during the year was 24.7%, ahead of the return on 2.5p 2009 - nil which will also be paid on 16 May 2011 to the benchmark index of 14.9%.
The share price total return shareholders on the register on 8 April 2011.
B Ordinary was 27.2% reflecting a slight expansion of the premium.
shares will receive their capitalisation issue of B Ordinary The Investment Managers Review in this Report contains an shares at the same time as each dividend is paid.
attribution analysis which shows the factors affecting net Accordingly, subject to approval at the Annual General asset performance.
As last year, key positive influences were Meeting, B Ordinary shareholders will be issued on 16 May significant overweights in Asia ex Japan and Latin America.
2011 with new B Ordinary shares equivalent in Net Asset The large underweighting in the United Kingdom contributed Value to the recommended final and special dividends for positively to relative outperformance, while continuing the year just ended.
strong stock selection across the board enhanced capital returns.
Gearing In May 2010 we entered into a new Yen 8.4 billion facility Background with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc at an all-in fixed rate of In terms of the level of economic activity the split between 3.17% until 13 May 2015 replacing an expiring facility for a the performance of the developed nations and the similar amount.
The currency risk arising from the loans has developing nations remained as wide as ever in 2010.
It is been largely eliminated by hedging the Yen exposure in the true that the former showed some recovery, particularly forward markets.
At the year end the total of all borrowings Germany, but, as a whole, they continued to be weighed was 161.8 million being 16.7% of net assets.
The proportion down by heavy debts and the attempts of their governments of the latter invested in equities was 104% 2009 - 104%.
to bring these under control without causing a sharp recession.
Individual governments took different measures in Publication of Prospectus and Issue of New Shares attempting to find the right balance with some countries At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2010 such as the USA emphasising the need to stimulate so as to shareholders authorised Directors to issue up to 10% of the reduce unemployment while others such as the United Companys issued share capital for cash at a premium to the Kingdom paid more attention to deficit reduction.
It is still prevailing asset value at the time of each issue.
During the uncertain as to which approach is likely to be more year we have continued to see a steady and strong demand successful but the task of reducing government deficits has for the Companys shares resulting in the issue of 7.9 million only just begun and is likely to bear down on economic new Ordinary shares representing 8.4% of the Ordinary growth for some time yet.
Sovereign solvency issues in a shares in issue at the start of the year.
The Financial Service number of European countries threatened to permanently Authoritys Prospectus Rules provide that where a company destabilise the whole region.
In the event the European issues in a twelve month period new shares representing 10 Murray International Trust PLC 7 Chairmans Statement continued per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital special dividend of 2.5p per Ordinary share which will cost which are already admitted to trading on a regulated market, 2.6m and equates to the enhancement to the revenue then the company concerned is required to issue a account from the VAT repayments.
In order to ensure that the Company retains the industry is taking various steps to seek to recover VAT in maximum flexibility to operate the premium control policy respect of the period 1997 to 2000 and is also seeking and to meet demand for the Ordinary shares, the Board compound interest on all VAT repaid.
These initiatives have published a Prospectus on 21 December 2010.
Copies of the been resisted by HMRC and it is not possible to predict Prospectus are available for downloading from the whether the Company will be entitled to any further VAT or Companys website via the following link interest repayments in the future.
Consequently no credit has http: www.
murraybeen taken in these accounts for any further repayments.
Overseas Tax Reclaims In recent years, there have been a number of European cases, Given the continuing demand for the Companys shares the hearings and opinions that support the argument that the Board will be seeking approval from shareholders to renew withholding tax WHT rules of many European Union the authority to issue new shares for cash in 2011.
As in countries discriminate against non-resident European previous years, new shares will only be issued at a premium beneficial owners of investments by offering a different tax to net asset value in order to avoid diluting the asset values rate to the equivalent domestic investment vehicle.
Resolutions to this effect will be Company has engaged Ernst & Young to advise in proposed at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors connection with the filing of protective claims in France, strongly encourage shareholders to support this proposal.
Germany and the Netherlands in accordance with certain statutory deadlines imposed by each country for domestic Directorate taxpayers.
If successful, the claims may result in the recovery It is with sadness that I will be retiring at the AGM having of up to 900,000 Euros, less costs, representing excess WHT served on the Board since 2000 and been Chairman since paid on dividends received in prior years.
I would like to thank the Board for all the support they update shareholders on progress in connection with this have given me during what has been an exciting time for the matter when there is further news to report.
The team at Aberdeen, with whom the Board has worked, has been a strong one.
The respect in which Bruce Annual General Meeting Stout and his team is held by investors is evidenced by the This years Annual General Meeting will be held in Glasgow move in the share price from a discount to net asset value, at on Thursday 28 April 2011 at 12.30 p. m. in the Strathclyde which investment trust shares normally stand, to a premium.
Suite of the Glasgow Royal Concert Hall.
As at previous I would like to thank Bruce for his excellent contribution and AGMs, there will be a presentation from the Manager and an Charles Mearns, for his company secretarial work during my opportunity to meet the Directors and Manager and ask time as Chairman.
I would be grateful if you would confirm your attendance by completing the notice that will accompany I am delighted that the Board has elected Kevin Carter to the Annual Report and returning it together with an indication succeed me as Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM.
His of any particular questions that you would like to ask.
knowledge of the investment world will be of great benefit to the Trust and I wish him and the rest of the team every Outlook success in the future.
In times such as these it is extremely difficult to forecast Repayment of VAT on Management Fees accurately macro economic developments in different During the year the Company received a repayment of regions of the World and to then judge how much stock 2.465 million from Aberdeen, representing the return of prices discount these developments.
For many years now outstanding VAT charged on management fees for the your Trust has benefited from identifying good quality periods 1990 to 1996 and 2001 to 2007.
This sum has been companies strategically focused on growth markets around allocated to the revenue and capital accounts in accordance the world.
This has served the investment objective well both with the accounting policy in place when the VAT was in rising and falling equity markets.
With equity markets originally charged.
The Company is shortly due to receive performing so well over the past two years, valuations have 1.6 million representing the simple interest due on the total moved higher, but not uniformly.
Attractive opportunities repayment of VAT.
This interest payment has been allocated still exist to merit maintaining the current strategy for the to the revenue account in accordance with the Association of foreseeable future.
Investment Companies Statement of Recommended John Trott Practice.
As a result of the one-off nature of the above sums, Chairman the Board has decided to recommend the payment of a 22 February 2011 8 Murray International Trust PLC
