02 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Chairmans CORPORATE OVERVIEW Highlights of 2010 include: STATEMENT t The successful startup of piped oil production from the large Mangala field in India, contributing a record The Groups strong financial position and turnover of $1.6 billion and profit of $1.1 billion: entrepreneurial exploration focus has allowed t The commencement of our potentially it to build a strategic and leading early entry transformational multi-well and position in the frontier offshore basins of Greenland.
multi-year exploration drilling programme offshore Greenland: and t The announcement of the proposed NORMAN MURRAY part sale of up to 51% of Cairns CHAIRMAN shareholding in Cairn India CIL to Vedanta Resources Plc Vedanta.
Rajasthan crude is now transported to a number of Indian refineries by the worlds longest continuously heated pipeline, which was built, and is operated, by Cairn India.
This infrastructure is strategically important as it means all the remaining fields and discoveries can be tied-in to the pipeline as they are developed.
The total resource base supports a combined potential production of 240,000 barrels of oil per day bopd, subject to further investment and Government of India GoI and joint venture JV partner approvals.
The accelerated multi-well and multi-year exploration campaign planned in the frontier basins of Greenland means Cairn is now the largest acreage holder offshore Greenland and the most active operator in this new frontier.
There is heightened industry interest in this region, as exemplified by the number of major oil companies participating in the Baffin Bay bid round in May and the subsequent block awards in December.
INDIA The IPO of Cairn India in 2007 provided a return of $1 billion cash to Cairn shareholders and generated sufficient financial flexibility to allow the fast-track development of Cairns discovered and appraised world-class fields in Rajasthan.
The completion of the first phase of the Rajasthan development represents a significant milestone for the Cairn Group, with the Mangala field now producing at an initial plateau rate of 125,000 bopd.
The overall development project is now materially fide-risked from a technical and commercial perspective, and demonstrates significant shareholder value creation.
In the summer of 2010, Cairn was approached by Vedanta with a proposal to purchase the majority of Cairns equity in Cairn India.
This presented Cairn and its shareholders with an early opportunity to realise a large proportion of the value created.
The proposed transaction was agreed and announced by the two companies in August, and approved by Cairn and Vedanta shareholders in Q4 2010. Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 03 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Cairn Energy PLC Board visit to Rajasthan in September 2010 The transaction is currently awaiting and recognises that our activities can I would also like to thank the asset GoI approval.
have an impact on the environment.
management and project teams working The Greenlandic Bureau of Minerals and on the Greenland programme over the GREENLAND Petroleum has established some of the past three years and, in particular, everyone The Groups strong financial position most stringent operating regulations involved during the first year of the drilling and entrepreneurial exploration focus has anywhere globally, which mirror those operations in 2010.
The safe and efficient allowed it to build a strategic and leading applied in the Norwegian North Sea.
operations undertaken by Cairn is a early entry position in the frontier offshore The Greenland Government and Cairn put testament to the hard work, dedication and basins of Greenland, a country which Cairn a thorough and robust operations strategy commitment shown by all those involved.
believes has the necessary geological in place even before the incident in the ingredients for exploration success.
Following this industry BOARD Cairn currently operates 11 blocks with incident, the Greenland Government and Two new independent non-executive 2 a combined area of 102,000km, which is Cairn reviewed the planned exploration directors, Ms M. Jacqueline Sheppard equivalent to 15 quadrants or 450 blocks programme to ensure that the lessons QC and Alexander Berger, were appointed in the UK North Sea.
learned which were not already part of in 2010 to the Cairn Energy PLC Board.
the Greenland drilling operations plan Ms Sheppard was previously Executive Cairn successfully drilled three wells and were captured and applied to the 2010 Vice-President, Corporate and Legal at acquired 15,000km of seismic offshore exploration drilling programme.
Talisman Energy Inc. in Calgary, a post she Greenland in 2010, and all operations held for 15 years.
Mr Berger is currently were carried out safely and without a PEOPLE CEO of Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. a major incident.
I would like to recognise all the creative private Dutch exploration and production effort, hard work and commitment the company based in Amsterdam and active In January 2011, Cairn increased its equity management, employees and contractor both in the North Sea and internationally.
interest to 87.5% and became operator of teams working in South Asia for Cairn have These appointments greatly strengthen the sub-Arctic Atammik and Lady Franklin put in during our work in this region for the industry knowledge represented on blocks offshore west Greenland.
Working effectively with the Cairn Board, and continue the Boards prospective blocks are virtually free of sea government and partners is fundamental goal of striving for diversity among its ice throughout the year and consequently wherever we operate, but the complexity directors and senior executives.
offer a potentially wider operating window.
of the Rajasthan development in particular has meant that such collaboration was OUTLOOK To conduct its planned 2011 exploration critical to achieve success.
Cairns The potential completion of the Vedanta campaign offshore Greenland, Cairn has experience has shown it is possible to build transaction would uniquely position Cairn contracted a sixth-generation drill ship world-class businesses and, when the time to return significant value to shareholders and a fifth-generation semi-submersible is right, to realise value for shareholders.
whilst retaining the financial flexibility to drilling unit to drill up to four wells during continue to focus on Cairns core expertise the summer.
Cairn also intends to acquire Cairn no longer has any interests in in exploration.
2011 looks set to be an three 3D seismic surveys approximately Bangladesh after 16 years of exploration, exciting year for Cairn as we continue 2 1,500km each : two of the surveys are development and production activities.
to pursue future growth opportunities.
planned over high-graded lead and During this period, Cairn discovered, prospect areas, whilst the exact location developed and brought to production Norman Murray of the third is yet to be decided.
the offshore Sangu gas field and I would Chairman like to thank all the past and present 21 March 2011 Wherever it is active, Cairn seeks to Cairn personnel who were involved operate in a safe and prudent manner during this period.
Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan Record revenues of approximately $1.6 billion, profit after tax before exceptional items of $1.1 billion and operating cashflow of $837 million.
Initial Mangala production plateau of 125,000 bopd reached in August 2010.
