MANAGEMENT STATEMENTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In 2010 we started to deliver on our promises, and we remain rmly focused on achieving our goals.
Richard as chairman of our Group Audit Committee.
Overview of 2010 Alan Gillespie joined as an independent nonThe Boards focus in 2010 was on restructuring the executive director in November 2010.
He will Group, reducing debt and improving financial succeed Rudi Bogni as our Senior Independent performance.
I am pleased to be able to report Director when Rudi retires at the 2011 AGM.
Nigel substantial progress towards our short-term Andrews also retires at this years AGM.
We were performance goals and a good start towards delighted to announce the appointment of our attainment of our medium-term restructuring targets.
first female director at plc level, Eva Castillo, in February 2011.
The Company achieved adjusted operating earnings per share on an IFRS basis of 16.0p for the year, a I would like to extend my thanks to Richard, Rudi, very satisfactory 38% increase over the 11.6p for Nigel and the other non-executive directors for 2009 as restated.
The results reect managements their wisdom and contribution during my first year determination to improve underlying performance in in the chair and their willingness to commit their our various businesses while setting industry-leading knowledge and experience in helping reshape our risk management standards in our operations.
In formally welcoming Eva, Roger and Alan, I know we have a Board which can face up to The sale of our US Life business, expected to the challenges of strategy implementation and complete soon, will improve the Groups overall risk future growth.
We continue to look to renew and prole signicantly.
We have taken a write-down of refresh the Boards mix of skills and experience from 827m in the value of US Life, based on the agreed a broad stakeholder point of view.
sale transaction terms, leading to a loss from discontinued operations of 713m and an overall On behalf of my Board colleagues, I would also like to Group basic IFRS loss for the year of 24m.
express our sincere appreciation for the continued dedication and efforts of the Groups employees Building on our leading presence in South African during 2010 especially to our colleagues at markets, we are making progress in transforming our Nedbank, for their focus on delivering improved Long-Term Savings business not only in Emerging results during a period of significant uncertainty.
Markets, but also in those developed markets of Europe where we have or can build sustainable Dividend competitive advantage.
Although we were disappointed that negotiations to sell our controlling The Board is recommending an increased final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of stake in Nedbank fell through during the year for reasons beyond our control, we remain very satisfied 2.9p per share or its equivalent in other applicable currencies.
It will be paid on 31 May 2011, subject to with the earnings stream from this investment and continue to see the bank as a key contributor to the approval by shareholders at this years AGM.
Together with the interim dividend of 1.1p per share Group.
The Group is committed to achieving its target, announced in March 2010, of reducing debt paid in November 2010, this makes a total of 4.0p for the year.
The Board has confirmed its commitment to by an aggregate 1.5 billion by the end of 2012. a progressive dividend policy for the future.
Board developments Following the successful launch of our scrip dividend At the start of my chairmanship, I committed to a scheme last year, we are again offering eligible gradual restructuring of the Board.
This process is shareholders the opportunity to increase their well under way.
Richard Pym retired from the Board shareholdings in the Company by receiving new in August 2010 at the end of his first three-year term shares instead of the cash dividend.
Further details because of the pressure of other commitments.
He of how to participate in the scheme are available was replaced by Roger Marshall, who joined as an on the Companys website.
independent non-executive director and succeeded 22 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Annual General Meeting The Boards focus in 2010 was on This years AGM will again be webcast from our ofces in London, where it will take place on Thursday 12 May restructuring the Group, reducing debt 2011.
There will be an opportunity for shareholders to submit questions in advance, if they wish, to be dealt and improving financial performance.
The AGM circular enclosed with pleased to be able to report substantial this report includes further details of the webcast, the resolutions to be proposed and the procedure for progress towards our short-term submitting questions ahead of the meeting.
performance goals and a good start Future towards attainment of our medium-term In 2010 we started to deliver on our promises, and we restructuring targets.
remain rmly focused on achieving our remaining goals.
This Group has an illustrious past, which has been tarnished by some poor strategic decisions during the past 11 years.
We have begun reshaping and improving our businesses and financial structure so that the next decade will see us delivering real shareholder value and playing our full part in the continued development of the markets in which we operate, while recognising the opportunities and commitments that come with our position in South Africa.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman 8 March 2011 Old Mutual plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
