PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Performance Over the 12 months from 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010, the Companys shares produced a total return of 31.0% to shareholders, while the total return of the Companys benchmark for performance measuring purposes, the FTSE All-Share Index, was 52.3%.
All these figures are with income reinvested.
On 31 March 2010, the discount of the share price relative to net asset value debt at par was 5.8%.
Further details can be found in the Investment Managers Report, which can be found on page 8. Dividend For the year ended 31 March 2010, two interim dividends were paid.
An increased first interim dividend of 3.4p 2009: 3.3p was paid to shareholders on 11 December 2009 and the second interim of 5.4p 2009: 5.2p was paid on 31 March 2010, giving total dividends paid for the year of 8.8p 2009: 8.5p, excluding a special dividend of 0.84p paid in respect of the recovery of VAT on management fees.
The Boards aim is for the Company to maintain its policy of real dividend growth over the medium term.
With effect from the financial year commencing on 1 April 2010, the Board intends to increase the frequency at which the Company pays dividends from twice yearly to quarterly.
It is therefore the aim of the Directors to pay quarterly dividends in September, December, March and June of each calendar year, with the first quarterly dividend to be paid in September 2010 in respect of the period 1 April 2010 to 30 June 2010.
Proposed Issue of B Shares On 14 May 2010, the Board announced a proposal to raise additional capital for the Company by way of an issue of B shares.
These new shares would carry exactly the same rights as existing ordinary shares save for the payment of distributions: when ordinary shareholders receive their dividends, B shareholders would receive a capital distribution of the same amount.
In consultation with its advisers, the Board decided to postpone this issue and released an announcement to the London Stock Exchange on 3 June 2010 to that effect.
The Board believed that the uncertain market conditions prevailing at that time were not conducive to raising new money from existing shareholders and potential new investors.
However, the Board, its advisers and Manager all believe that, given the right conditions, a B share issue would be popular with investors and benefit existing shareholders.
At shareholder meetings held on 9 June 2010, resolutions enabling an issue of B shares to proceed were adopted by overwhelming majority.
This will allow the Company to issue B shares at relatively short notice in the future if conditions permit and existing shareholders and potential new investors have shown their support for such an issue.
Subsequent to the year end, the Company has made a provision of 100,000 against its share of the costs incurred up to the date of postponement.
If a decision to proceed is taken by the Board and it is successful, there will be no additional costs to existing shareholders.
Gearing Actual gearing of the Company was 20% at the year end 2009:17%.
The Boards policy is to allow gearing up to a level of 25%.
Subscription Share Exercise During the year under review, subscription shareholders had their third opportunity to exercise their right to subscribe for one ordinary share of the Company at a price of 218.94p.
The subscription period ended on 31 August 2009.
As a result, 38,492 shares were allotted on 11 September 2009.
Subscription shareholders will have further opportunities to convert their holdings in each of the years 2010 to 2013.
Issued Share Capital At the year end the issued share capital of the Company was 210,051,017 ordinary shares of 10p each and 17,682,432 subscription shares.
During the year the rating of the Companys shares remained high and occasionally, its shares traded at a premium to net asset value NAV.
At times, demand for shares exceeded supply and the Company responded to two requests for issues of new shares totalling 1,607,905 in July 2009.
06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Board of Directors James DAlbiac retired from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 8 July 2009.
Mr DAlbiac made a significant contribution to the Board during his 13 years of service as a Director.
In order to ensure that the Board continues to have the right balance of skills, experience and length of service, succession planning of the Directors is reviewed on an ongoing basis by the Board.
This has been demonstrated by the various changes which have been made to the constitution of the Board over the last three financial years.
The Board currently consists of five Directors, four of whom are considered wholly independent as per the AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
Two of the Directors, namely Antony Hardy and Sir Martyn Arbib, have been on the Board for longer than nine years, the period beyond which shareholders may consider that length of service can compromise directors independence.
The Board, however, does not believe that, in the case of Antony Hardy and Sir Martyn Arbib, length of service compromises independence.
In fact the knowledge shared by both these Directors has proven invaluable to the Board.
Further details of the Directors can be found in their biographies on page 12.
Corporate Governance The Board remains committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to you as shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Directors believe that, during the period under review, they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance as endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council, save in respect of matters discussed in the Corporate Governance statement contained on pages 26 to 32.
Annual General Meeting AGM At the AGM there are three items of Special Business to be proposed: Share Issuance 1.
The Directors are seeking the usual authority to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,001,700 a third of the Companys issued share capital as at 11 June 2010 in new ordinary shares.
This will allow Directors to issue shares within the prescribed limits should any favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of shareholders.
This authority will expire at the AGM in 2011.
The Directors are also seeking the usual authority to issue new ordinary shares pursuant to a rights issue or otherwise than in accordance with a rights issue of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,100,510 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 11 June 2010 of new ordinary shares disapplying pre-emption rights.
This will allow shares to be issued to new shareholders without their having to be offered to existing shareholders first, thus potentially broadening the shareholder base of the Company.
This authority will not be exercised at a price below NAV so that the interests of existing shareholders are not diluted and will expire at the AGM in 2011.
Notice Period for General Meetings 3.
The EU Shareholder Rights Directive, which was implemented in October 2009 increased the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
A shareholders resolution is required to ensure that the Companys general meetings other than AGMs may be held on 14 days notice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 11 will propose that the period of notice for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall be not less than 14 clear days notice.
It is intended that this flexibility will be used only for non-routine business and where it is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 9 June 2010, shareholders approved special resolutions authorising the Directors to buy-back up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares and B shares, should they be issued.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the 2011 AGM.
For this reason, buy-back resolutions will not be put to shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 The Directors have carefully considered all the resolutions proposed in the Notice of the AGM shown on pages 54 to 57 and, in their opinion, the Directors consider them all to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
The AGM of the Company will be held at The Lanesborough, Hyde Park Corner, London SW1X 7TA on 12 July 2010 at 12 noon.
I do hope that as many shareholders as possible are able to attend.
This will be an opportunity not only to meet the Directors, but also to hear the views of Mark Barnett, who is the investment manager at Invesco Perpetual with the day-to-day responsibility for managing the Companys portfolio.
