02 About Your Company Chairmans Statement CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Richard Wakeling After the trials of recent years, it is pleasing to be able to report a satisfactory year for your Company Review of the year and performance major markets was encouraging and the optimistic but After the trials of recent years, it is pleasing to be prescient outlook presented by your managers in our able to report a satisfactory year for the Company.
2009 annual report ensured that the portfolio was Not only did stock markets around the world recover kept fully invested throughout the period.
strongly from the depths reached in March 2009 but With the discount much reduced, we have not made technology shares outperformed in almost all markets.
any share buy backs in the financial year but remain These developments together with a pronounced in close contact with the market through our Manager reduction in our shares discount to net asset value and corporate brokers.
generated a rise of 67.7% in the share price over the Credit markets have continued to be difficult for all year to 30 April 2010. borrowers but I am pleased to report that we have Accumulating evidence that the massive monetary and successfully renewed our borrowing facilities with scal infusions provided by governments around the world ING Bank.
Further details are given in the Report of were first stabilising and then reinvigorating economic the Directors.
activity led to a sharp rise in stock markets.
Scepticism about the recoverys strength and sustainability only Outlook Although the economic and corporate recovery underway gradually dissipated resulting in an uptrend in share prices that was remarkable in its consistency.
That uptrend was has been far more pronounced than most forecasters would have predicted a year ago, there remain immense accompanied by a rapid and marked recovery in corporate profits, the result both of improving demand and the challenges ahead.
Politicians in many countries are just beginning to admit to their electorates the sheer scale of drastic rationalisation that followed the global economys precipitous fall in the autumn of 2008. the cutbacks that will be necessary if national nances are to be balanced over the decade ahead.
The technology sector has a long history as an aggressive Consumers seem more than willing to remain in denial cost cutter and it tends to be an early beneciary of any cyclical upturn in demand.
This has certainly been true about the implications of these cuts for their living standards.
Indeed, it is only the corporate sector that of this recovery.
Moreover, there has been clear evidence that technology products and services are, for the first has shown a determination to confront reality by aggressively reducing costs in late 2008 and early time since the 1990s, absorbing a growing proportion of corporate and consumer spending.
The result is that demand may be artificially and unsustainably inated and corporate profit margins are contributed to the sectors dramatic earnings recovery and has given us increased confidence in the validity of at almost inconceivably high levels with earnings in 2011 forecast to regain or even exceed the peak levels of 2007. the new cycle thesis.
It seems likely that something will eventually have to give.
Over the year, the Companys Net Asset Value per share rose by 45.4%, comfortably outperforming The uncertainties are greatest at the macro level.
Structural problems abound in the global economy the sterling adjusted total returns of the Dow Jones World Technology Indexs rise of 39.6% and markedly and the Greek debt crisis shows that scal restraint cannot be postponed for ever.
The year ahead will exceeding the increase in the FTSE World Index of 34.9%.
Currency movements modestly impacted returns with doubtless show which of the more indebted countries are the most adept at walking along the tightropes US Dollar weakness providing a sharp contrast to the previous year.
Relative performance in all of our they have created for themselves.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
indd 2 17 06 2010 06:45 About Your Company Chairmans Statement 03 Over the next five years, we believe that the earnings growth of technology companies will outpace that of the broad market While the macro picture remains unclear, there is much In our 2005 Annual Report, ahead of our last continuation about which to be enthused in the technology sector.
vote, our Manager wrote extensively about the new We are confident that a new cycle is well underway, technology cycle that they expected to get underway one which will see a raft of new technologies gaining by the end of the third quarter of 2006.
Their prediction increasing adoption amongst both consumers and turned out to be valid and, since that quarter, technology corporations.
Over the next five years, we believe that shares have materially outperformed the broad market.
the earnings growth of technology companies will Our Manager believes that, based on historical precedent, outpace that of the broad market eventually leading to this cycle should extend well beyond the 2010 an upward rerating of a sector that is currently valued at continuation vote and also for the foreseeable future, only a very modest premium to the market.
The history barring a global double-dip recession.
The Directors of the sector suggests that such up-cycles can last for intend to vote their shareholdings in favour of the as much as a decade and, although never smooth, can resolution to continue your Company and unanimously deliver substantial outperformance.
We expect the recommend other shareholders do the same.
current cycle to be no different.
Finally I would like to congratulate the manager Board on winning the Techmark 2009 award as technology During the year, Trust Associates, consultants fund manager of the year.
specialising in the Investment Trust industry, were engaged to review the Boards effectiveness and its remuneration.
As a result of this review, the Board Richard Wakeling has made one change to its corporate governance 10 June 2010 arrangements with Michael Moule taking over from me as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board has also decided to set in process a programme designed gradually to replace the longest serving Directors.
Details of the remuneration proposals are given in the Remuneration report on pages 47 to 49.
AGM and continuation vote This years annual general meeting will be held at 12.30pm on 28 July at The Royal Automobile Club at 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS.
Shareholders are encouraged to come and hear the investment manager, meet the Board and vote on the resolutions put to the meeting.
A full explanation of all the resolutions is set out in my letter which forms part of the separate notice of meeting.
In keeping with the Companys Articles of Association, this years AGM will include an ordinary resolution to continue your Companys life for a further five years.
