10 Business review and management report: Chairmans statement Our role has never been more important The groups businesses focus on lending responsibly to consumers in the non-standard segment of the market who are less able to access credit in the mainstream market and may otherwise face financial exclusion.
It has built up a close understanding of this specialist market over many years, attracting high levels of customer satisfaction through delivering a range John van Kuffeler of credit products specifically tailored to the needs Chairman of people on modest incomes.
Group results year as a whole.
Vanquis Bank is very well positioned The group has reported a strong set of results for to continue further strong growth in 2011 and 38.1p the year with profit before tax and exceptional deliver on its receivables target of 450m by the Proposed final dividend costs up 11.1% to 144.5m 2009: 130.1m and end of 2012 whilst continuing to earn a post-tax basic earnings per share before exceptional costs return on equity of 30%.
The growth in earnings was well ahead of receivables growth The groups funding and liquidity positions remain due to the strong management of yield, impairment strong with the balance sheet showing modest and costs.
The group incurred an exceptional gearing of 3.3 times 2009: 3.3 times against a charge of 2.5m in 2010 relating to the write-down bank covenant of 5.0 times.
In the first two months of residual fixed assets following consolidation of the of 2011, the group has made further excellent Consumer Credit Divisions head office into a single, progress in increasing and further diversifying purpose-built facility.
its funding base by arranging private placements totalling 128.5m, including the 10-year 100m Home Credit delivered profits of 129.1m 2009: facility with M&G Investments announced on 128.9m, up 0.2m on last year.
The headroom on committed the demand for credit was subdued in the first facilities at the end of February 2011 is approximately nine months of the year due to pressure on 370m.
This is predominantly earmarked to meet household incomes from rising under-employment, contractual debt maturities between now and the characterised by reduced working hours, as well as end of the first quarter of 2012 of 345m which the rising cost of food, fuel and utility bills.
Against include the final tranche relating to those banks this backdrop, a strong focus on collections and the who did not participate in the three-year extension early actions taken to manage margins and reduce to the groups syndicated bank facilities in February costs underpinned profitability.
In line with the continuing strategy of 2010 saw an improvement in the demand for credit diversifying its funding base, the group has as customers visibility of their future earnings commenced a roadshow to promote a second retail improved and details of the Governments Spending bond issue following the success of its inaugural Review were announced.
At the same time, the issue in April 2010.
The group has made good collections performance remained very sound.
progress in its dialogue with the FSA concerning The good finish to the year leaves Home Credit Vanquis Bank using its banking licence to take retail well positioned to deliver profitable growth in 2011. deposits and expects to conclude the dialogue in the second quarter of 2011.
Vanquis Bank achieved an excellent result in 2010, with profits up 89.4% to 26.7m 2009: 14.1m.
The proposed final dividend is maintained at 38.1p The business delivered growth of over 25% in per share 2009: 38.1p reflecting the companys customer numbers and average receivables against policy set out at the time of the demerger to at least tight underwriting standards.
Delinquency trends maintain a full-year payment of 63.5p per share have been very favourable since the second quarter whilst moving to a target payout ratio of 80% of of the year enabling the business to deliver a post-tax post-tax profit in the medium term.
Dividend cover return on equity in excess of its target of 30% for the before exceptional costs for 2010 increased to 1.24 times 2009: 1.12 times.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review and management report 11 market conditions on individual households will be factored into The groups businesses focus on lending responsibly agents lending decisions in the normal course to consumers in the non-standard segment of the of business.
Impairment typically arises in market who are less able to access credit in the Home Credit due to unexpected rather than mainstream market and may otherwise face financial expected changes to customers circumstances.
It has built up a deep understanding of this specialist market over many years, attracting regulation high levels of customer satisfaction through The group has now implemented those parts of delivering a range of credit products specifically the Irresponsible Lending Guidance to Creditors tailored to the needs of people on modest incomes.
and the EU Directive on Consumer Credit which were required to be implemented by February 2011.
Household incomes for many families in the home In conjunction with the UK Cards Association, credit market remained under pressure during 2010 Vanquis Bank has also implemented the necessary because of the rise in under-employment from systems and other procedural changes during 2010 restrictions on working hours and wage rates, and early 2011 to ensure compliance with the The group coupled with rising food, fuel and utility bills.
Department for Business Innovation and Skills BIS has reported Customers reduced visibility of their future incomes, consultation on credit and store card regulation.
together with the uncertainty surrounding the a strong set of potential impact of public sector cuts and changes In October 2010, HM Treasury HMT BIS issued results for the to welfare benefits, resulted in cautious customer a call for evidence in connection with a review of behaviour which tempered the demand for credit consumer credit and insolvency.
The review is year with profit through the first nine months of the year.
wide-ranging and covers issues arising at each stage before tax and Anticipating these market conditions, management of the life of a credit agreement.
HMT BIS is now in the exceptional planned for modest receivables growth during 2010 process of considering the responses and, at a date and placed a strong emphasis on managing revenue still to be determined, will publish the results of the costs up 11.1% yields, maintaining credit standards and driving consultation.
The group welcomes the Governments to 144.5m.
through cost efficiency measures whilst protecting evidence-based approach to the review.
Market conditions improved in the final quarter of the year In December 2010, a joint HMT BIS consultation as customers visibility over their future incomes was launched setting out the Governments proposal improved in a more stable employment market and to transfer responsibility for consumer credit from details of the Governments Spending Review the OFT to a new Financial Conduct Authority became known.
These more favourable conditions formerly called the Consumer Protection and have continued in the early part of 2011.
Market Authority and signalling the Governments preference to bring the regulation of all retail The overall competitive landscape for Home Credit financial products under one regulatory regime.
remained unchanged throughout the year with The Consultation closes on 22 March 2011 and around 500 active participants in the UK.
the groups businesses have contributed to the submissions through their respective trade bodies.
Vanquis Bank remains the most active participant within the non-standard credit card market outlook which continued to experience strong demand.
After a strong final quarter in 2010, both Home As a result, the business has generated a strong Credit and Vanquis Bank have made a good start to flow of applications and strong utilisation of credit 2011.
The first quarter is the peak collections period lines.
Other issuers remain relatively inactive in the Home Credit business and it is encouraging and the business has a significant medium-term to report sound collections and a continuation of growth opportunity.
Vanquis Bank entered 2011 with a high quality receivables book, 35.0% Vanquis Banks customers are typically in regular up on a year earlier, and has experienced strong employment and the business is more sensitive growth and stable delinquency during the first two than Home Credit to changes in unemployment months of 2011. rates which have been steady since mid-2009.
This stability coupled with consistently tight In view of the uncertainty over the future direction underwriting has contributed to a favourable of the UK employment market, the tight trend in delinquency during 2010. underwriting standards which have been in place for a considerable period of time will continue to At present, there is uncertainty about the future be applied in both businesses.
direction of the employment market which is likely to remain until the impact of the Governments The good start to 2011 and the groups strong Spending Review on UK economic growth is clearer.
funding and liquidity positions with current Consequently, tight underwriting standards will headroom against committed facilities of 370m, remain in place in both businesses.
leaves the business well placed to deliver good quality growth in 2011.
Governments spending review Based on its detailed understanding of the Home Credit customer base, the group has assessed the potential impact of the changes to welfare benefits John van kuffeler to be phased in over the next four years which Chairman were included in the Governments October 2010 1 March 2011 Spending Review and June 2010 Budget.
The conclusion is that the changes will have limited In order to align the weekly Home Credit business with impact on the predominantly working households the groups financial year, served by Home Credit and that the short-term Home Credits 2010 nature of the loan book means that any impact financial year includes 53 weeks compared with 52 weeks in 2009.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010
