Business review Governance Accounts The Capita Group Plc 64 Chairmans report Approximate allocation of agenda time in 2010 Corporate governance I am pleased to present to you this report on the work of the Capita Board During the year the Board has discussed many things including: strategy, during 2010. acquisitions, finance, corporate reporting, service and risk and business report assurance.
This is shown in the diagram below.
I joined the Board of Capita in 2008 and was appointed Chairman on 1 January 2010.
I have always been impressed by the Boards commitment to the highest standard of corporate governance, and most importantly Finance Acquisition and bids Operational Corporate reporting how this works within the structure of the whole organisation without Strategy Other matters Risk being overly cumbersome.
It is vital that a Board balances its time between strategy and oversight, Finance 20% as this responsibility is given to them by the shareholders, but consideration of all its stakeholders is also important.
I believe that this Operational 15% balance is managed well within Capita at Board level, divisional and Strategy 15% business unit level.
Risk 10% Board activities in 2010 Acquisitions and bids 25% The Board has continued to have a busy year.
In addition to our business as Corporate reporting 10% usual, we put out to tender and appointed a new external Auditor, KPMG Other matters 5% Audit Plc, and the Group undertook 12 acquisitions and continued to review the strategy, risk and oversight of the performance of the Group.
The tasks brought to the Board and committee meetings are appropriate and balanced and work is delegated accordingly.
The meetings are structured in line with the financial calendar of the Company and this ensures that appropriate focus can be given and the right time allocated by planning the agendas accordingly.
In order that the Board can ensure that the strategic direction and growth of the Group can continue successfully and has the appropriate risk oversight, meetings are held between the Director, Group Risk and Business Assurance and the Chairman of the Audit Committee throughout the year as well as meetings on a business as usual basis.
Risks are identied in a number of ways and are prioritised and delegated in accordance with the risk ratings provided.
As part of our internal controls our Risk Committee meets 4 times a year to review in detail the risks for the Group.
