RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 4 Despite the extreme volatility of markets, I am pleased to report the progress made by your Company during the year under review.
In the year to 31 March 2010, your Companys net asset value per share NAV appreciated by 35.0% to 1,180.1p.
This was a new high for our NAV, exceeding our previous NAV high in October 2007.
The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index in Sterling, the most relevant index, rose by 40.3% over the year.
The FTSE All-Share Index and the Investment Trust Net Assets Index rose by 46.7% and 38.2% respectively.
Our returns over the prior five and ten years now stand at 65.6% and 131.8% Lord Rothschild respectively in comparison with the MSCI World Indexs returns in Sterling of 29.6% Chairman and -12.1%.
In just over a month since the middle of April, most major world markets slumped some 15%, with particular weakness in Continental Europe and China.
As a consequence, the MSCI World Index in Sterling has fallen by 7.5% and the FTSE All-Share by 9.1% since the end of March.
Your Companys NAV per share was 1,140.0p on 4 June, representing a decline of 3.4% over the same period.
Last year I said that when returns on cash were negligible the injection of government money into the system had caused investment in public equities to become more compelling.
There was, in a sense, nowhere much else for money to go.
We increased our public market exposure to a peak level of 82%, having started the period under review with 37%.
We took positions in commodities and more cyclically exposed companies, as well as developing-economy markets and currencies.
Where we deployed capital, we earned attractive rates of return, generally in excess of relevant market returns.
Currency positioning was an important and effective part of our strategy over the past year.
Having increased Sterling exposure significantly after its decline in 2008, we then anticipated events by scaling back both Sterling and the Euro, and increasing the US Dollar plus a number of Asian currencies pegged to the US Dollar.
At a time of extreme currency volatility we are sensitive to the impact that currencies can have on good investment decisions.
Before the setback in May, we had reduced market exposure, with greater focus on cash-rich companies with strong global franchises.
For defensive reasons we had maintained a significant position in gold and gold shares, which at 4 June represented some 9% of our net assets.
We concentrated our emergingmarket exposure on more domestically oriented investments.
New investments had previously been made in a number of hedge funds managed with a view to capital preservation.
After taking into account our liquidity, we have throughout remained unlevered, and indeed in May this year we repaid a 150 million bank loan.
We face, looking to the future, an outlook and an uncertainty unlike much that we have been used to.
The scale of governments borrowing, and central banks quantitative easing, remains, as I remarked last year, without precedent and surely dangerous and yet it is hard to blame these public bodies for trying to ward off market collapse and recession.
The see-saws of markets derive from inherited debt and the cash-plenty injected by central banks and governments to offset it: yet because there is still all but zero return available on cash, investors take risks as they seek higher returns.
Equity markets therefore swing violently upwards when they rise, and then too fiercely downwards when they fall.
The addiction to public and private debt earlier in the decade is being cured or perhaps not cured by still more public debt.
The recessionary threat brings present deflation: countering it with printed money makes future inflation likely.
Every country and every market feels them to a varying degree.
In early summer, the spotlight turned on the Euro whose southern member countries had run levels of borrowing out of kilter with those of Germany and its northern neighbours: a problem exacerbated, indeed in part caused, by a Euro exchange rate more suited to Europes north than its south.
There is a serious risk that the European Economic Monetary Union, with one central bank and sixteen separate national treasuries, will not be able to maintain the common currency peg.
5 Beyond Europe, the US economy in particular has shown encouraging signs of recovery.
The worst of the last crisis has passed, but it is an uncomfortable thought that more than 40% of global GDP comes from countries running fiscal deficits of 10% or more.
The printing of money and fiscal stimulus have helped to bring back growth.
Corporate earnings, helped by pent-up demand and the recovery, have been surprisingly good.
The question remains as to whether such profits will turn out to be transitory, rather than sustainable, as the stimulus programme wears off and spending cuts take their toll on growth.
We are of the view, however, that, in comparison with the yields available on government bonds, equities are likely to prove to be the preferred home for long-term investment.
Our approach remains clear: in markets like these our aim of preserving shareholders capital takes precedence over short-term capital growth.
If that means we miss some periods of market strength we will bear the disappointment.
This is why RIT fared relatively well as markets fell both in the winter of 2008-09 and the past two or so months.
If, in falling markets, our aim is to preserve capital, in better times I ask shareholders to note that our growth objective is long-term, not short.
We watch and indeed compare our performance with relevant indices like the MSCI World Index, and we reward our investment team in part by reference to it.
But we do not feel tied to a formal benchmark.
The success of this approach is evident from our record over several years rather than a single one.
It lies in caution, in combining a wide range of asset classes that correspond to no specific benchmarks, and in our extreme flexibility and pragmatism of investment approach so that we are positioned to take advantage of opportunities.
We include, for instance, opportunistic investments in unquoted entities from which shareholders have benefited significantly over time.
ASSET ALLOCATION We set out below our asset allocation, shown as a percentage of your Companys total net assets.
% of net assets % of net assets at 31 March at 31 March 2010 2009 Quoted equities 39.2 29.5 Long equity funds 18.6 13.4 Hedge funds 7.8 1.2 Unquoted direct investments 10.2 17.5 Unquoted fund investments 10.5 11.3 Real assets 9.6 11.5 Absolute return, fixed income and currency 2.4 1.2 Liquidity 19.4 42.1 Borrowings 16.8 28.4 Other assets liabilities 0.9 0.7 Total net assets 100.0 100.0 The table above contains three new categories: Real assets, Absolute return, fixed income and currency, and Liquidity.
The constituents of these are more fully set out in the Investment Review on pages 8 to 23.
A more detailed analysis of your Companys portfolio and currency exposure, including future commitments, can also be found on pages 8 to 23.
RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 6 UNQUOTED INVESTMENTS During the year we reviewed a large number of unquoted investment opportunities.
We chose to invest in only a few of them, and shareholders should be aware of two in particular.
We will invest over time up to 60 million in Agora, a newly-established oil and gas exploration and production company focusing on the Norwegian and UK continental shelves.
The company was founded by the team that established Revus, a Norwegian oil and gas exploration and production company.
The company benefits from a supportive tax regime in Norway, where 78% of its Norwegian exploration costs are reimbursed.
An encouraging start has been made in the West and East Tybalt and Catcher prospects.
In December 2009 we agreed to invest up to 18 million over four years in Helios Towers Africa, a new pan-African telecommunications towers business alongside Soros Strategic Partners, Albright Capital Management, and Helios Investment Partners.
Helios had previously created a successful towers company in Nigeria.
A good start has been made with the company having already been selected as a tower operator in Ghana.
Our main realisation during the year was the sale of our largest investment, Robin Hood Holdings, a generic pharmaceuticals business, to the US firm, Watson Pharmaceuticals.
This was completed in December 2009.
Our total proceeds, including the shares in Watson which we received as part of the transaction, represent a multiple of 5.4x our investment, originally made between 2003 and 2005.
This is the second time that we have made a highly successful investment with Tony Tabatznik in a generic pharmaceuticals company founded by him.
We would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to this exceptional entrepreneur.
DIVIDEND On 4 March we declared a dividend of 4p per share for the year ending 31 March 2010.
This was paid on 1 April to shareholders on the register at 12 March.
At that time we stated that it was not expected that there would be a subsequent dividend in respect of that period: we have subsequently decided not to pay any additional dividend.
SHARE BUY-BACK On 2 December 2009 we bought for cancellation 600,000 of our shares at 950p a share.
EU REGULATION Shareholders need to be aware of a proposed directive being drafted by the European Union the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
This measure is primarily aimed at curbing hedge funds and private equity funds.
Advertently or not, however, investment trusts are also included in its remit.
I am glad to report that the UK government, the Association of Investment Companies, your Company and fellow investment trusts have had some success in limiting the impact of the worst aspects on investment trusts of the Directive in its earlier forms.
However, we will not know for weeks or months the outcome of a negotiating process in Brussels that is far from over, and the risk remains that some of the progress made so far may yet be rolled back.
The Financial Times kindly published an article by me on 20 April which seems to have contributed to the efforts which so many have made to explaining the realities of prudent investing to the protagonists in Brussels and Strasbourg.
BOARD Charles Bailey has decided not to seek re-election at this years Annual General Meeting and will therefore be retiring from the Board at that point.
Charles first joined the Board in 1988 and has since then served your Company both as a Director and Chairman of three important Board Committees.
In addition, he has served as your Companys senior independent non-executive director.
On your behalf, I would like to thank him for the very substantial contribution which he has made over the years and to wish him well for his retirement.
7 I am pleased to announce that Lord Douro has agreed to join the Board with effect from the Annual General Meeting.
He has also agreed to become Chairman of the Remuneration and Conflicts Committees and to join the Nominations Committee.
He is currently a non-executive director of SanofiAventis, Pernod-Ricard and Abengoa Bio Energia, and non-executive Chairman of Richemont Holdings UK Limited.
As recently announced, Ian Wace has resigned from the Board ahead of the Companys year-end, as a result of pressure on his time from other commitments.
I would like to thank him for his contribution to the Company and wish him well for the future.
Many of our Directors devote considerable time and effort to the Board Committees which deal with important aspects of your Companys operations.
During the year, Michael Marks has agreed to join the Nominations, Remuneration and Conflicts Committees and he will succeed Charles Bailey as the senior independent non-executive director.
On behalf of shareholders I would like to thank your Directors for their contribution to these Committees.
