Chairmans statement Philip Hampton, Chairman Business achievements There are two dimensions to the internal rebuilding process at RBS: reducing our exposure to certain assets and risks, and strengthening Watch or listen to d our core businesses.
On asset and risk reduction, we are ahead of Philip Hampton at www.
Our programme of business disposals has attracted the most M For biographies attention, with 20 agreements signed or completed in 2010.
But our see pages 226-229 asset restructuring deals and run-off programme are also contributing to making RBS a stronger and safer bank, with a greatly improved capital position and lower funding needs.
This progress means we can increasingly focus on the core businesses that will drive our future.
It has been pleasing to see the early results of our efforts to strengthen them.
For example, we have increased our share of the mortgage and savings markets in the UK, with account numbers rising by 44,000 and 579,000, respectively.
We are investing heavily in our core businesses, with a strong emphasis on serving customers better and improving our efficiency.
Economic backdrop getting better The global economy rebounded strongly in 2010, but the strength of the recovery was unevenly spread across countries, and over time.
Among our core markets, the UK and the US both returned to fairly modest growth.
Conditions in Ireland remained very challenging.
This general improvement must be viewed against a backdrop of financial market turbulence at various points in the year, especially in Europe.
So while our expectation is that the return of economic growth Rebuilding and Recovery in 2010 will be sustained in 2011, and that interest rates will gradually There was a step-change in our overall financial start to rise during the year, we are vigilant about the downside risks and the possibility of spill-over effects from political uncertainties in performance last year.
The return to operating some countries and regions.
1 profit reflects both the internal rebuilding process at RBS and the external recovery in Public policy lending and remuneration In the public policy debate, two issues attracted controversy for UK market and economic conditions.
We are still banks in 2010: lending to companies, especially small and medium a good way from where we want to be in terms enterprises: and remuneration.
In February 2011, the leading UK banks of our performance but 2010 represents reached an agreement with the UK Government with the intention of another big stride towards that goal.
reducing public controversy and improving constructive relationships.
The agreement involves a series of commitments by the larger banks, 1 As defined on page 1. including on lending, remuneration and capital support, which are a positive reaction to issues of concern in our communities.
We welcome the UK Governments recognition of the contribution of financial services to the economy, and its commitment to support the creation of a level international playing field to promote effective competition.
On lending, it is important that banks give customers confidence that requests for funds for viable businesses will be met.
RBS has been active in support of our customers over the last two years of significant downturn.
For example, we are on track to meet our current targets for UK lending availability, agreed in March 2010.
In the UK, we lent 52 billion to businesses over the first eleven months of the March 2010 February 2011 period, well ahead of our full year target of 50 billion.
Over the same eleven month period we lent over 15 billion to mortgage customers, resulting in net balance growth of more than 8 billion, in excess of our full year mortgage net lending target of 8 billion.
2 RBS Group 2010 Essential reading Chairmans statement Our lending goals to businesses will now continue in 2011, with Archie Hunter left the Board at the 2010 AGM after six years and additional capacity available to support further growth if demand is I would like to thank him for his work as a director and Chair of the higher than expected.
This time, we will be joined by the other large Audit Committee.
The commitment he provided during a time of major UK banks.
We hope this initiative will help give confidence to stimulate changes on the Board was very professional and valuable.
In addition, the banks have agreed to support a new major equity fund targeted at small businesses, and provide capital to Finally, Colin Buchan will stand down from the Board in the summer, the UK Governments big society bank.
Again, his commitment as a director and, last year, as chairman of the Remuneration Committee, has been greatly Our support for business extends beyond lending.
This is particularly appreciated by the Board.
true in tough economic times when it is even more important to preserve economic activity and jobs.
A 500-strong team of our most Sustainable Banking serving local communities experienced relationship managers provides intensive support to new Financial services provide important benefits to society when they are and fast-growing companies, who may be experiencing a recession delivered responsibly and efficiently.
Having learned the lessons from and its aftermath for the first time.
We have also grown our team of the past, the challenge for RBS is to deliver these services in a way restructuring specialists who help struggling businesses back to health.
that our communities value and that our people can be proud of.
I am We helped around 950 UK businesses to restructure successfully in confident that the changes we are making at RBS in the way we do 2010.
We work with companies of all shapes and sizes across the business, as well as the business we do, will help to achieve this.
Much country from a small road haulage business to higher-profile of this work is overseen by the Groups Sustainability Committee, which examples, such as Liverpool Football Club, and large multinationals.
is chaired by our Senior Independent Director, Sir Sandy Crombie, and reports to our Board.
On remuneration, we have been a leading advocate of international, industry-wide reform in the banking sector over the last two years, having For example, NatWest and RBS introduced Customer Charters in 2010. focused early on the need for deferrals, clawback and strong alignment These are based on the issues that customers have told us are important of rewards to shareholders interests by using equity instead of cash.
to them, such as making banking easy we will extend our opening hours in our busiest branches.
Similarly, Ulster Bank in Ireland and Following an extensive consultation with both our institutional Citizens in the US launched their own commitments, which are already shareholders and UK Financial Investments, the Board has decided delivering tangible benefits to our customers.
our approach on the key aspects of 2010 remuneration, including performance-related awards, and has balanced the need to attract We are also committed to investing in and developing our community and retain talented people to serve customers effectively with other programmes.
Our long-running MoneySense programme continues to key drivers, including regulatory compliance and the control of costs.
provide education on basic financial matters to thousands of It will again include a 2,000 cap on immediate cash bonuses.
schoolchildren in the UK, and is actively supported by employee volunteers.
The Citizens Gear for Grades programme in the US On tax, the Government will introduce a levy on banks balance sheets provides school supplies for children whose families are unable to from 1 January 2011.
This policy was announced by the Chancellor of afford them.
Since the programmes inception in 2003, Citizens has the Exchequer in the June Budget, with the details finalised as part of served over 150,000 school children in the US.
Our community activities the February 2011 agreement outlined above.
If the levy had been also include business start-up support and microfinance programmes.
applied to the balance sheet at 31 December 2010, the cost of the Our annual Sustainability Report contains extensive information on our levy to RBS would be in the region of 350 to 400 million in 2011. activities in this key area for us in the UK, USA, India and many other countries where we operate.
We made a gross contribution of 3.9 billion to the UK Government in 2010.
The bulk of this was taxes, including 1.5 billion paid on behalf Value for our shareholders of employees, directly or indirectly.
We also paid around 1.5 billion It is vital that we make a proper financial return on the large amounts fees, including 700 million for the Asset Protection Scheme.
of new capital that RBS has raised in recent years, mainly from the UK Government.
To make that return, we know that we have to run the Governance building on the changes we made last year businesses efficiently and support our customers effectively.
An intrinsic We made comprehensive changes to the Board and the Executive part of our effectiveness comes from being a healthy and safe bank, with Management team in 2009, so last year was one of relative stability.
sufficient capital and liquidity to meet the demands of customers, markets I remain confident that the Board has the right blend of skills and and regulation.
Many banks in the UK and elsewhere, including RBS, experience to succeed.
Our management team, under the experienced operated for a number of years with levels of capital and liquidity which, leadership of Stephen Hester, is doing an excellent job in moving certainly in hindsight, left them weak and vulnerable.
Our job is to make RBS forward.
sure RBS remains strong and safe, but also to reward shareholders appropriately through improving financial results.
I hope you will agree Penny Hughes joined the Board on 1 January, as a Non-executive that the progress we have made is evident in our 2010 Results.
Much Director, and took over as Chair of our Remuneration Committee from remains to be done, but we are another important step closer to realising 1 June 2010.
Brendan Nelson was appointed as a Non-executive the potential in the businesses that make up the RBS Group.
Director with effect from 1 April, and took over as Chair of the Group Audit Committee following the 2010 AGM.
Philip Hampton Chairman RBS Group 2010 3
