CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A GREAT YEAR AS WE CELEBRATE TH OUR 300 ANNIVERSARY 2010, our 300th anniversary year, proved to be a testing year of contrasts.
The theme of our anniversary, chosen by our staff, was to focus it around a volunteering and support effort for those living less privileged lives.
The global response of our team was magnificent and in the three months from April to June we: Raised around 700,000, trebling the amount raised for charity in a normal year Volunteered 36,000 hours, 50% more than The support we provide to our customers in a normal year Donated nearly 200,000 gifts including food, is as important today as when we were toys, clothes and even a car!
The success of the year was such, that we now John Napier, Chairman plan to hold an annual RSA Day to build on the momentum that was achieved.
In terms of trading, 2010 proved to be very challenging with extreme events and adverse weather throughout, including the Net written premiums m Dividend for the year p Chilean earthquake, hurricanes and finally the very cold spell that affected Europe in November and December.
It was the widespread nature of the cold spell in Europe which was the largest single contributing factor to adverse weather costs for the full year of some 255m above the norm.
In financial terms, the adverse weather costs Net written premium growth % Dividend increase % impacted our COR increasing it by around 3.5 points to 96.4%.
A detailed statement to the market and shareholders was made on 20 January 2011 as soon as the extent of the 11% 7% weather losses could be accurately assessed.
The underlying strength, net of adverse weather, of the 2010 performance, however, 08 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 INTRODUCTION minimised the impact on the operating profit matter open to a comply or explain process dividend of 8.82p, a 7% increase.
Our dividend which was resilient at 636m.
This was well and in practice will take some time to settle.
policy of increasing the dividend at least in line supported by strong year on year net revenue The Board has listened to a wide range of with inflation remains unchanged.
growth, as follows: views and comment on this issue.
It has also commissioned an external evaluation of your Finally, at the end of our 300th year I would An overall increase in net written premiums, Board which has been very helpful.
In 2009, like to make a special mention of all our up 11% at reported rates we strengthened our governance process staff.
Firstly, for making such a magnificent Continued growth in the UK, up 11% with the appointment of Noel Harwerth as effort in their volunteering and charitable International Markets up 9% a non-executive Chairman of an Independent work this year, secondly, for producing a Emerging Markets up 16%.
In 2011, the Board has strong underlying performance and thirdly, appointed a Senior Independent Director, dealing efficiently and expeditiously with the The detail behind this strong net revenue SID Edward Lea, who is also Chairman of other side of adverse claims, namely helping performance is set out more fully in the the Group Audit Committee.
We will also people who are beset with major unforeseen Group CEOs review.
The underlying expand the Board to ensure continuity of traumatic events.
Our staff have coped very operating results, which include a robust corporate knowledge and experience as well in what has been a demanding year in investment performance, again reflected we deal with expected retirements.
I would like to thank them on behalf our continued focus on profitable growth of the Board and all its shareholders.
It also demonstrates Although under the previous three year rule, the strategic strength and resilience of no RSA Director would have been eligible for our portfolio of businesses and our election this year, the Code now contains a commitment to sustainable profitability.
recommendation for annual election of the Board.
Whilst continuing to have reservations On external matters, the Board continues about the wisdom of the annual re-election to actively and positively engage with regulators guideline, we will be contributing to the spirit and government bodies.
The new coalition of the intent of the new guidance by seeking the John Napier government is reshaping regulatory re-election as Directors of the newly appointed Chairman responsibilities, particularly those of the SID, Edward Lea, the Group CEO, Andy Haste, FSA.
This has coincided with European and myself, John Napier as Chairman.
based discussions on risk and capital matters embodied in what is known as the Solvency II Moving on to the outlook, I have already process.
The challenge remains of getting commented on the underlying strength of such regulatory decisions proportionate, the 2010 performance.
In his annual report competitively sustainable and implemented to shareholders the Group CEO sets out on a consistent basis in what is essentially a the outline of our strategic aspirations very ambitious and complex wider European and commitment to sustained growth and framework.
Requirements for life and non-life increased profitability.
Your Board affirms that insurance businesses remain different and the RSA has an extremely well-led, professional insurance industry generally does not have the and dedicated management team, who capacity for systemic failure demonstrated by continue to set demanding but deliverable the banks, a topic which continues to engage performance challenges and improved public opinion.
The debate on the question of the annual It is against the underlying performance election of the Chairman and or Boards has background of 2010 and confidence going moved on with its incorporation in the UK forward, that the Board have recommended Corporate Governance Code.
This leaves the a final dividend of 5.70p making a full year Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 09
