Chairmans Statement There were a small number of main themes behind portfolio Performance activity.
First, effective equity gearing was deployed actively Over the year to 31 October 2010, the net asset value per in volatile and uncertain markets during a year in which share NAV total return was 17.0% cum income and with equally clear cases could be made for either further equity borrowings at par.
The total returns of the comparator gains or a major sell-off if fears of a return to recession indices, the global FTSE All-World Index and the UK FTSE were vindicated.
Gearing was deployed in a range of 101% All-Share Index, were 18.2% and 17.5% respectively.
to 112% and at an average level of 106% over the year.
Second, a 50m addition was made to US holdings early Portfolio performance benefited from strong returns from in the year ahead of a dollar strength-fuelled spell of strong Asian holdings which offset a weak first half from a number performance from US equities, although our holdings of US holdings.
The principal contributors to investment lagged the wider US market.
Third, the move into the US performance included Apple US, Kia Motors Korea, Aspen was funded in part by significant reductions to Europe Pharmacare South Africa, Spectris UK, CIMB Malaysia, BHP ex UK ahead of regional market weakness relating to Billiton UK, Hengan International Hong Kong and Li & Fung euro sovereign debt worries.
Later, reductions were made Hong Kong.
The three most negative contributors were all to North America with assets swapped back into UK in the oil industry Diamond Offshore Drilling US, BP UK and European equities ahead of stronger relative spells and Petrobras Brazil.
After a disappointing first half, relative investment Over the year, the portfolio appreciated by 83.6m.
For the performance picked up sharply in a second half in which second consecutive year, the largest contributions came the portfolio rose in value despite global equity markets from Industrials 24.7m and some reductions were made falling modestly.
Over the year, industry sector positioning here to lock in some of the good gains made over the last was broadly helpful.
Consumer Goods holdings, which were built up during the year, rose by 19.2m.
By region, Asia Equity markets were volatile throughout the year.
Effective Pacific ex Japan produced the largest appreciation 27.6m.
equity gearing levels were managed actively but cautiously Oil & Gas generated the worst portfolio returns although and deployment added 0.7% to NAV performance.
The reductions made early in the year were usefully recycled into uplift to NAV from share buybacks largely offset the 0.8% Basic Materials holdings.
With dividend income recovering, cost to NAV performance from interest and expenses some of the short-dated corporate bond holdings, held to charged to capital.
boost income in the face of declining interest rates, were sold.
Positive investor sentiment stemming from resurgent In the period from end January 2004, when the current corporate profits, broadly improving economic data and management approach was introduced, to 31 October abundant merger and acquisition activity was intermittently 2010, the NAV and share price total returns were ahead punctured by bouts of weakness reflecting concerns of the two comparator indices.
The NAV total return was over policy measures to cool Chinese growth and over 76.3% compared with 70.9% for the FTSE All-World and the European sovereign debt crisis centred on Greece 70.3% for the FTSE All-Share.
The share price total return and other indebted countries on the EU periphery.
of the equity market gain made in the first six months was eliminated by August as risks of a slowdown in the US economy emerged.
However, the indications by the US Income monetary authorities in late August that further quantitative Dividend payouts started to recover after one of the worst stimulus would be applied prompted a sharp rally in equity spells for dividends in decades.
Good dividend growth markets and other risk assets.
A striking feature has been from holdings allied with control over expenses, which the close inverse correlation between the US dollar and saw the expenses ratio decline, and a lower number of asset prices, a symptom of the pressures and imbalances shares outstanding, left earnings per share EPS at 10.26p within the global financial system.
The passing of dividends by BP resulted in a loss of projected income of around 0.25p per share Industry sector performance was equally volatile with or 2.4% of EPS.
sequential rotations in and out of more cyclical sectors as markets rose and fell.
The China demand-linked Basic Dividend Materials industry stocks produced the best returns It is a stated objective of the company to increase the over the year, followed by other consumer cyclicals and dividend by more than the UK rate of inflation over the industrials.
While more defensive sectors lagged generally, longer term.
The board is therefore recommending a final it was Oil & Gas which performed worst as heavyweights dividend of 5.60p per share 2009: 5.15p.
Taken together BP and Petrobras succumbed to stock-specific pressures.
with the interim dividend of 4.45p per share 2009: 4.45p, In geographic terms, the fall in sterling exchange rates this would result in an increase of 4.7% in the total dividend transformed overseas returns for UK-based investors and for the year to 10.05p per share 2009: 9.60p which propelled the emerging market regions of Middle East & compares with October UK CPI inflation of 3.2% and RPI Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific ex Japan to sterling inflation of 4.5%.
If the proposal is approved, the company returns well in excess of 20%.
will have increased its dividend in each of the last 27 years.
4 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Chairmans Statement continued Over 5 years the companys dividend has increased inflation, fears over which have been growing throughout the by 19.6%.
This compares with RPI inflation of 16.8% year, and a normalisation of interest rates.
Corporate profits and CPI inflation of 14.4%.
and balance sheets have recovered well and profits are expected to grow in 2011.
Our portfolio is currently valued less highly than the global market on aggregate, has a higher Share Price, Discount and Buybacks dividend yield and good prospective dividend growth.
The share price rose by 14.5% as the discount to ex-income NAV was stable over the year and ended the period at 9.0% 2009: 8.9%.
The companys buyback policy is intended to keep the discount to ex-income NAV at or below 9.0% with borrowings at market value.
Under the policy, 8.1m Douglas McDougall shares were repurchased for cancellation over the financial Chairman year adding 0.7% to NAV performance and utilising 16 December 2010 4.62% of the 14.99% authority renewed at the February 2010 AGM.
The shares were repurchased at an estimated average discount to ex-income NAV of 10.2% and at a cost of 36.0m inclusive of dealing expenses.
The buybacks were funded from sales of fixed interest holdings and equities and from net current assets.
The average discount over the year was 9.6% and the daily average between the introduction of the scheme in February 2006 and the year end was 8.4%.
The companys savings schemes, ISA and SIPP operated by its regulated subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, continued to provide steady net demand for the companys shares over the year.
European Regulatory Proposals Impact on Self-Managed Trusts Investors may recall the concern expressed by the Board last year regarding the EU draft directive governing so called Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM.
These proposals were aimed primarily at hedge funds and private equity funds but inadvertently caught conventional UK investment trusts and risked the imposition of some inappropriate measures.
While the worst outcomes appear to have been avoided, it will be some time before the boards of self-managed and other investment trusts can assess the increase in costs which will almost certainly follow.
Indications are that the new regime will not come into force before 2013.
Outlook Global equity markets rose by 61% in sterling terms between the end of the bear market in March 2009 and the end of October 2010 as a series of emergency monetary and fiscal measures supported troubled developed world economies and encouraged money to flow into riskier assets.
It was perhaps ironic that stockmarkets should rally on the suggestions in August that the US authorities felt compelled by the economic outlook to sanction further quantitative stimulus measures.
Central bank policies are again exposing the various structural imbalances in the world economy and may give rise to competitive currency devaluations around the world, the spread of capital controls and, in time, price inflation.
The debt situation in the periphery of the EU remains a concern and it is still troubling that interest rates in several major economies remain at or close to zero.
The challenge for authorities is to achieve an adequate stimulus without sparking Report & Accounts 2010 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 5
