CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement The past year saw a resumption or, in the case of China, an Results acceleration of growth, across most economies.
The financial and The end of our last financial year coincided with a welcome turning banking system is once again functioning, although in many point for equities, which recovered strongly after many months of developed economies a legacy of the crisis has been the transfer of retreat.
So I am pleased to be able to report that, in the 12 months debt from the private to the public sector and reluctance on the part to 31 March 2010, not only did stock markets stage a remarkable of the banks to lend, due partly to regulatory, capital and liquidity rally from the lows of Spring 2009, Scottish Mortgage also delivered constraints, to those businesses most in need of funding.
While the an exceptional performance and more than made up the ground that move away from some of the extraordinary excesses seen in financial was lost in the previous year.
By all measures we were considerably markets is to be welcomed, the paucity of bank lending is undoubtedly ahead of our benchmark: over the year to 31 March 2010, net hindering the nascent economic recovery in Britain and other asset value per share appreciated by 81%, while the increase in the developed economies: low base rates are of little use to companies FTSE All World Index in sterling was 45%.
The share price started who cannot access funds.
the year at 353p and was 609p at its close, representing a 73% increase a new year-end high for Scottish Mortgage.
Within the developed world, governments and regulators are still grappling with the problem of finding acceptable ways to ensure Investment Philosophy and Five Year Record that banking crises can be averted in future, while at the same time After the extreme disruption endured in 2008 09, the past twelve trying to maintain confidence in some of the worst-hit economies, of months demonstrate the considerable value of a soundly based which Greece is so far the most prominent example.
While Western investment philosophy and the benefits of sticking to fundamental governments attentions are occupied with such issues, it is already beliefs.
Scottish Mortgages style is first of all determined by a long evident that economic and political influence is shifting inexorably term perspective.
An approach is then taken where the assessment away from Europe and the United States towards rapidly growing of the prospects and progress of individual companies is kept to powers, particularly in Asia, at a considerable pace.
This bottom-up approach is in contrast to attempts to apparent that the recent crisis has, at a corporate level, produced anticipate shorter term trends and market direction.
winners as well as losers: many companies which successfully weathered the crisis have emerged in stronger and often dominant In keeping with the long term approach, the five year record is much positions compared to their weakened competitors.
more relevant than one years individual figures however good the past 12 months numbers may be.
I am happy to report that over Borrowings five years the share price total return both capital and dividends Borrowings have been maintained at roughly the same level in has been 104% or 15.3% on an annualised basis and the net asset absolute terms throughout the year and being geared into rising value return was 86% 13.2% per annum.
These can be compared markets has benefited performance.
The relative level of the to 58% returned on the same basis by the FTSE All World Index borrowings, or gearing ratio, has fallen as the value of the assets 9.6% per annum.
Gearing is reviewed at all Board meetings and, provided Investment and International Environment the Companys risk profile remains commensurate with that which the Board has agreed with the Manager, borrowings may be increased The Managers Review contains a full commentary on the progress should the expected returns from investment opportunities be deemed of Scottish Mortgages investments and the investment perspective to outweigh the costs.
At the financial year end, total assets were encompassed by the current portfolio.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
04 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Considerable thanks are also due to Geoff Ball who retired Earnings and Dividend following the 2009 AGM having given over 25 years of valuable Earnings per share this year were 11.2p compared to 12.7p in service to the Company, including several years as a most effective the previous year, when the total included a non-recurring element Senior Independent Director: that position is now fulfilled by Mike of 1.5p derived from the substantial recovery of VAT from HMRC.
2010 also saw the resignation of Lord Strathclyde who joined Thus, underlying earnings were maintained year-on-year.
In an the Board in 2004 and who has stood down to fulfil extensive environment where many companies have cut or even suspended political commitments: his insights and advice will be missed.
their dividends, we regard this as a very satisfactory outcome for Scottish Mortgages portfolio.
AGM A final dividend of 5.8p per share is proposed which will give a At the AGM the Company is putting forward a resolution to change total of 11.3p for the year.
Last years total dividend payment was the Articles of Association to reflect the implementation of the last parts 12.3p per share, or 10.8p if the non-recurring VAT element of 1.5p of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force on 1 October is excluded, so this represents an increase of 4.6% in the underlying 2009.
Further information on the resolution can be found on page rate and represents a real increase as RPI rose by 4.4% in the 27 in the Directors Report and details of the main changes period.
This is the 28th successive year that Scottish Mortgage proposed are set out in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual has increased its dividend at a faster rate than inflation.
Forecasting future earnings is not a precise science as the portfolio The AGM will be held at 4.30pm on 28 June in the Edinburgh offices changes throughout the year but at this stage the Managers expect of Baillie Gifford & Co see map on page 54.
James Anderson, to see an increase in earnings in 2010 11.
Earnings are now Chief Investment Officer of Baillie Gifford and who has responsibility derived predominantly from overseas holdings so currency fluctuations for the investments, will give a presentation and answer shareholders will have an impact.
Your Board recognises that a growing dividend investment questions.
The Board welcomes this opportunity to meet return is important to shareholders and intends, as far as possible, to shareholders and refreshments will be served after the presentation.
build on its long record in this regard.
Distributable revenue reserves Outlook currently stand at 22p per share and your Board is prepared to use these if the need arises.
The shape of the world as defined by economic, corporate and also environmental considerations is shifting rapidly and the Scottish Discount and share buybacks Mortgage portfolio is alive to these developments.
Change of this While performance was strong this year, it is disappointing to report scale can be unsettling and comes with risk and uncertainty but that the discount has widened, admittedly in line with many other seismic shifts also provide rich seams of opportunity.
large trusts and the sector as a whole.
In an effort to contain the Overall, the Managers conclude that there is no current shortage discount, we have tried to address the apparent imbalance between of companies with exciting growth prospects.
These are often, but demand and supply for our shares.
In total, 12.6m shares 4.6% not exclusively, those companies exposed to domestic growth in were bought back during the course of the year, compared to 1.9m countries where wealth is increasing and being spread rapidly.
shares in the previous year.
One attraction of buying back shares Opportunities also lie amongst exporters of goods and services at a discount is that net asset value per share for the continuing and with strong, well managed concerns in the developed world.
shareholders is enhanced, the effect of this uplift in 2009 10 being In particular, one set of companies that the Managers seek to identify 8.7p per share.
While the Board understands the attractions of is young businesses at an early stage of possibly rapid growth.
buying back shares, a significant feature of Scottish Mortgage is its Within the Managers Review there is a thought-provoking account low running cost for shareholders.
To maintain this advantage, it is of a recent trip to China written by Tom Slater, Scottish Mortgages important that the scale of the Company is maintained with costs Deputy Manager.
As ever there is considerable uncertainty about spread across a large asset base: our total expense ratio of 0.52% precisely how economies and trade patterns will develop, but your is among the lowest in the industry and an important part of the Board takes a positive long term view of the global outlook.
To this end, seeking and sustaining The experience of the past two years suggests that Scottish demand for Scottish Mortgage shares is a priority for the Managers Mortgage shares will be volatile against the comparative index, and great efforts are made to find new buyers to replace those who sometimes considerably so in the short term: while the Board decide to exit.
considers that it has an appropriate benchmark, it does not engage The Board in slavish attempts to track any index but instead strives to deliver to My predecessor, Sir Donald MacKay, retired in December 2009. shareholders long term absolute and relative returns that are well Sir Donald served as a Director from 1999 and as Chairman from above average.
I am delighted that Scottish Mortgage has done 2003, overseeing considerable change notably to the way the this so effectively in the past year.
investments are managed and in the significant increase in holdings in overseas stocks: Scottish Mortgage today offers a fundamentally different investment proposition as compared with only 10 years ago.
I believe that we Shareholders, the Managers and this Board owe Sir Donald a considerable debt of gratitude for the effective way in which he has handled these changes.
JOHN SCOTT 17 May 2010 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05
