Chairmans Statement I am delighted to report that 2010 was an excellent year for St. Jamess Place as we built on our robust performance in 2009 by delivering record new business, record profits and our highest ever level of funds under management.
Mike Wilson Chairman St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
3183415 04 Business Review We continue to establish ourselves as a market Foundation and Community leading UK wealth manager by ensuring that our Charity has always been integral to the St. Jamess Partnership remains best placed to offer trusted Place culture.
Consequently, each year we set an 33% advice to our clients, and provides them with objective to raise more money for our Foundation FULL YEAR market leading investment products that can cater than in the previous year, doing so by all manner DIVIDEND to their ever changing needs.
of means ranging from sponsored mountain climbs, triathlons, auctions, quiz evenings and numerous During the year we increased the number of other fundraising activities.
The money raised via Partners by 6% and made significant improvements these events together with regular monthly in productivity, while we enhanced further our suite donations from over 80% of our community, which of investment products with the launch of several are matched by the Company, exceeded 2.7 million 2.7m new funds run by some of the very best UK and in 2010.
As we approach our 20th anniversary, I am US based fund managers.
delighted to report that we have now raised a total FUNDS RAISED FOR SJP of over 20 million since the business was formed, FOUNDATION It is therefore extremely pleasing to receive external something that all of us at St. Jamess Place can recognition for the quality of our client offering rightly be proud of.
with St. Jamess Place being voted 2010 Wealth Manager of the Year by readers of the Daily Telegraph.
The funds raised to date have enabled the This is the third time we have won this award.
Foundation to continue to support hundreds of small charities and also commit to larger projects.
Further Dividend details of fund raising events and charities supported The scale of our business continues to grow can be found on pages 31 to 33. materially and we now have some 27 billion in funds under management, double the figure five On behalf of the trustees I would like to thank all years ago.
This, together with the increasing at St. Jamess Place and our suppliers who have maturity of the in-force book underpins our generously supported the Foundation during 2010. confidence, under normal market conditions, in the cash earnings of the business going forward.
Partners and Employees Finally, on behalf of the Board and shareholders, In light of this we intend to rebase the dividend over I would also like to extend my thanks to the the next two years, with a significant rise in the Partnership, our employees and the staff in our current year dividend and an intention for a further support centres for their continued and outstanding significant rise in 2011.
Thereafter, off this new contribution to our record 2010 results.
higher base, we would hope to be able to progressively grow the dividend in line with As I have said before, the quality of our people at the underlying growth of the business.
every level of our community is exceptional, and I am very proud of their continued commitment, Therefore, subject to the approval of shareholders dedication and enthusiasm.
at the Annual General Meeting the Board proposes to increase the final dividend by 49% to 3.975 pence per share.
This provides for a full year dividend of 6.0 pence per share 2009: 4.5 pence per share, an increase of 33%.
Mike Wilson Chairman 22 February 2011 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 05
