SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 06 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report a second year of improved performance at SVG Capital, with 1 netassets per share increasing by 41.7% and our share price rising by 66.0%.
This 2 compares to a FTSE All-Share total return of 14.5% and a sector total return of41.3%.
At the end of September, when we announced an updated net asset value NAV following the introduction of quarterly valuations from Permira funds, we were abletoreport a significant increase over the June NAV, driven by a continued operatingandearnings recovery at the underlying Permira portfolio companies.
Thecontinued strong performance of the Permira funds portfolio in the final quarterof this year hasresulted in an increase in net assets per share to 315.9p 1 999.4million at 31December 2010.
Shareholders funds have risen in the year by50.8% to 298.9p pershare 945.7 million.
As discussed more fully in the CEOs report, we have also made good progress in our strategy to improve the strength of the balance sheet.
Specifically, we have extended our bank-line, repaid some of our senior borrowings and sold a number of non-core warehoused assets, which have reduced our uncalled commitments.
In 2010 we strengthened the Board with two new additions: Andrew Sykes in thefirsthalf of the year, and Caroline Goodall in the second half.
On behalf of theDirectors, Iwelcome both of them to the Board.
We also unified our managementstructure, withLynn Fordham assuming full responsibility for the operational management ofSVG Capital and SVG Advisers with the support of anExecutive Committee.
Turning to the wider market, 2010 has been a year of progress in the private equitysector.
Private equity managers have continued to work hard on creating valueat theirexisting portfolio companies and this remains a priority but we arenow alsostarting to see increased activity in terms of both new deals and exits, thelatter boosted by trade and secondary sales.
During the year we have seen somerealisations from the more mature Permira funds portfolio: the sale of Cognis toBASF, and the partial realisation of TDC, while the SV Asia Pacific Fund sold its holding in Strides Arcolab.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 07 Although there is no doubt the sector has yet to return to normality, it has been encouraging to see private equity activity picking up.
Research released this year from our advisory business, SVG Advisers, has also demonstrated the resilience of private equity backed companies as a result of the broad and prompt actions taken bymanagement through the downturn.
In the near term, the market will remain challenging for fundraising as investors maintain a cautious approach until they see more realisations emerging from current funds and we expect pressure on terms andconditions to continue.
While there have been ripples in the financial markets following the Eurozone sovereigndebt crisis, it would appear the public markets are more resilient to the impact of such events and, in general, have been improving.
Despite a number of negative economic issues which may cast a shadow on the recovery, I am confident that the underlying portfolio companies are in a much stronger position to withstandany additional deterioration in the market.
Increased regulation surrounds the private equity industry: the EU AIFM Directive finally received approval in the middle of November 2010, although the full extent of its impact will not be fully quantifiable until the next level ofnegotiations are finalised over the next two years.
SVG Capital has made significant progress this year.
It is encouraging to see both the underlying portfolio perform strongly and the teams sterling efforts further improve the Companys financial position.
Nicholas Ferguson Chairman 14 February 2011 A significant rebound in earnings across the portfolio has resulted in a 41.7% increase in net assets 1 per share to 315.9p 999.4 million.
1 Including the 31 December 2010 unaudited Directors valuation of SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers of 53.7million 17.0p per share 2 LPX 50 Total Return 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2010 Overview
