4 Chairmans statement In a challenging year, I am pleased to report that Carpetright has delivered an improved performance.
The Group has grown sales and commenced the development of new revenue streams in the house building and insurance sectors, helping to deliver a significant recovery in profitability over the depressed level reported in theprioryear.
Total revenue for the 52 weeks ended 1 May 2010 increased by 7.0% to516.6m.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 64.0% to 28.2m.
After the impact of exceptional items, reported profit before tax increased to 22.3m.
Underlying earnings per share have risen by73.6% to 31.6p and basic earnings per share increased to 23.5p.
Ourfocus on debt reduction has delivered results, with strong free cash flow of 32.0m, reducing net debt by 25.8m to 71.3m.
This solid performance has led the Board to recommend a final dividend of 8.0p per share.
Having previously paid an interim dividend of 8.0p per share the total dividend for the period will therefore be 16.0p per share, an increase of 100% on the previous year.
These results have been delivered through a period of economic recession, with fears of unemployment and tax increases adversely affecting consumer confidence.
Throughout the period we continued to manage the business by exerting tight control over all costs, capital expenditure, stock and cash flow.
Our businesses in the UK and Republic of Ireland have returned togrowth, withunderlying operating profits up 67.9% to 26.2m, although Irecognise this is only the start of a journey to return toprevious levelsof profitability.
In Europe, our businesses in The Netherlands and Belgium have continued to grow with underlying operating profits up 10.3% to a record level of 9.6m.
During the year Lord Harris of Peckham we took the decision to withdraw from trading in Poland.
Since its Chairman and Chief Executive launch fouryears ago, the business had failed to establish sufficient trading momentum and critical mass, and the resulting performance had beendisappointing.
This exit was completed by the year end.
Significant recovery I would like to thank all our employees for their continued commitment, contribution and loyalty throughout the year.
inprofitability Itispeople who make retail businesses and I believe we have a fantastic team of loyal, hard working staff at Carpetright.
It is this team which has collectively been responsible for the progress the Group has made and I look forward to working with them in theyearahead.
Geoff Brady is leaving the Board on 31 August 2010 after three years.
Iwould like to thank him for his contribution over that period.
Although we are planning for consumer demand across Europe toremain subdued, we have market leading positions in all our geographical areas with strong value led retail brands.
I believe this enables us to look confidently to the future as and when the economic conditions improve.
Lord Harris of Peckham Chairman and Chief Executive Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2010
