Active investment working for you Chairmans statement Performance shareholders on the register at The total return on the net assets of 18 March 2011.
This would be the Temple Bar during 2010 was 15.2%, 27th consecutive year in which the which compares with a total return dividend has been increased.
for the FTSE All-Share Index of 14.5%.
In recent years the relationship The return achieved comprises a small between the size of the interim and underlying relative portfolio final dividends has become underperformance, more than offset unbalanced.
Accordingly, it is the by the capital gearing of the Trust.
In Boards intention to enhance the next share price terms this outcome was interim dividend and, correspondingly, enhanced by the discount on Temple to reduce the next final dividend in Bars shares narrowing over the year.
order to bring payments to It is pleasing to report that over the shareholders into better past five years the Portfolio Manager alignment.
continues significantly to outperform The Temple Bar dividend was not the benchmark established by the fully covered by revenue in 2010, with Board.
1.3 million being transferred from the 2010 was a much better year for revenue reserve.
Compared with the dividends than initially had been previous years surplus of 0.2 million, expected, with dividend growth from the shortfall arose from a dividends to shareholders during such many of the stocks in the portfolio.
In combination of the loss of the BP an exceptional and temporary event common with most other income dividend c1.3 million and the to be justified.
After this transfer and focused funds, overall income growth elimination of the one-off benefit in post payment of the final dividend, was affected by the loss of the BP 2009 of the refund of VAT payments the revenue reserve represents about dividend following the tragic accident and related interest 1.6 million, 88% of the 2010 annual dividend in the Gulf of Mexico.
This partially offset by an increase in other payment.
contributed to a post-tax earnings dividend income of 1.4 million.
The At the year-end, capital gearing, decline of 5.5% in 2010. loss of the BP dividend was only defined as gross assets divided by net The Board is recommending a final temporary, with payments due to be assets, was 112%.
However, cash and dividend of 23.7p, to produce a total resumed at approximately 50% of the near cash assets together with the increase of 2.1% for the year.
If former level during the current year.
short-dated bond portfolio are approved, this dividend will be The Board considers that the use of currently offsetting virtually all of payable on 31 March 2011 to the revenue reserve to sustain this gearing.
This would be the 27th consecutive year in which the dividend has been increased.
4 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Active investment working for you Chairmans statement continued Board of Directors will make a presentation reviewing The Portfolio Manager, and his As indicated in my statement last the past year and commenting on the team, remain committed to their inyear, Field Walton retired from the outlook.
He will also be available to depth, stock specific contrarian Board in March 2010 after 27 years of answer questions.
I am pleased to report long-term performance is a reflection that we have appointed Arthur Copple Outlook of their dedication to their roles.
They as an additional director.
He has a The Portfolio Manager provides a will continue to adhere to their wealth of experience of the investment detailed outlook in his report: his disciplined process in very variable trust sector and I am confident that main message is that there are far market conditions.
he will make a substantial fewer compelling investment contribution in the years to come.
In opportunities than was the case a few common with all the directors on the years ago.
This is nothing new: Board, Arthur is fully independent of markets move in cycles and, as John Reeve the management company.
always, patience will be key.
Chairman The Board continues to evaluate 23 February 2011 Annual General Meeting the potential revenue generation of The 2011 Annual General Meeting the portfolio by assessing a number will be held at 2 Gresham Street, of scenarios.
As usual, the high London EC2V 7QP on Tuesday number of variables that drive the 29 March 2011 at 11.00am.
I look forecasts result in a wide range of forward to meeting as many of you as possible outcomes, but it is clear that are able to attend.
In addition to the the portfolio needs to eliminate any formal business of the meeting the deficit between dividends received Portfolio Manager, Alastair Mundy, and dividends paid as a priority.
2010 was a much better year for dividends than initially had been expected, with dividend growth from many of the stocks in the portfolio.
Comparative dividend growth Source: Datastream Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5
