CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA A ATEMENT TEMENT TEMENT Emerging markets rebounded strongly, as investors appreciated their financial strengths.
Peter A Smith Chairman I am delighted to report on an excellent period for During the period under review, the share price has Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC traded at a discount of between 4% and 9% to its net TEMIT or the Company.
The net asset value total asset value, ending almost where it began at 7.0% against return for the eleven months to 31 March 2010 was 6.9% on 30 April 2009.
The discount is continually 72.8%: a rise which was particularly welcome following monitored, and your Board exercises its right to buy back the market falls in 2008 and 2009.
Emerging markets shares when it is considered to be in shareholders rebounded strongly, as investors appreciated the financial interests to do so.
During the period 532,000 shares were strengths of their economies and the companies in them.
bought back at a cost of 2.2 million, modestly enhancing the net asset value per share of the remainder.
Performance At 31 March 2010, your Company had total assets of The net asset value per share increased from 365.7 pence 2,046 million, compared with 1,208 million at at 30 April 2009 to 620.3 pence on 31 March 2010.
Adding in the dividend, this represents a total return of 72.8%, easily outperforming our benchmark, the MSCI On 4 June, the NAV per share had fallen by 7.7% to Emerging Markets Index, which returned 52.0% in sterling 572.7 pence since 31 March.
The share price had fallen by terms for the same period.
I am sure shareholders will join 6.5% to 539.5 pence.
me in congratulating Mark Mobius and his team on such a fine performance.
The Company was launched in June Investment income and the dividend 1989 to seek out long-term value in markets where Shareholders will notice that, despite the strong growth in shareholders were unlikely to have the expertise to do so the portfolios assets, investment income is down 43% themselves.
Since then, it has returned 2,180% dividends from the previous year.
In part this reflects the change of re-invested, a compound growth rate of 16.3% per our year-end, since April is traditionally a strong month annum.
The benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Index has for dividend income, and in part the caution of investee returned 940% 12.0% per annum in the same period.
companies during the financial crisis, some of whom chose The Investment Managers report and review can be found to protect their balance sheets and cut their dividends.
Board proposes to pay the same 3.75 pence dividend for 4 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC the eleven months to 31 March 2010 as was paid for the I encourage all shareholders to register on our website year to 30 April 2009 by drawing on the revenue reserves and make full use of the facilities and materials available built up in prior years.
This represents an effective increase to help keep you informed about your Company.
Finally, I am pleased to report that TEMIT won the Investment Week Investment Trust of the Year Award Asset allocation 2009 in the emerging markets category for the second The general policy of the Board is to be fully invested in consecutive year.
The Company was also awarded the equities.
At 31 March 2010, 99.4% of the Companys net Best Emerging Markets Trust in the Moneywise 2010 assets were invested in equities 30 April 2009: 98.0%.
awards and won Best Large Trust in 2009 award from Investment Trusts Magazine.
Continuation vote As I previously reported, at the AGM held in July 2009 Outlook shareholders voted in favour of the Company continuing to Over the last year markets moved out of a period of operate as an investment trust for a further five years.
recession and spent the first few months of 2010 in broadly positive territory.
The Board However, the effect of large fiscal support packages by There have been no changes to the membership of the governments to stimulate their economies has caused Board during the period.
Gregory Johnson and I are due concerns of overheating in some emerging markets and to retire at the AGM and offer ourselves for re-election.
may result in a tightening of monetary policy, including The Board regularly evaluates its performance and following raising interest rates, to help control inflationary pressures.
the annual Directors appraisal process, and with the endorsement of the Nomination and Remuneration Investors have also become increasingly nervous about the Committee, the Board is recommending our re-election to weak fiscal positions of some Eurozone countries, shareholders.
particularly Greece, and the impact this is having on the wider market, as well as concerns that China's growth may be tempered by the need to control money flows and Investor communications property prices.
The Board aims to keep shareholders informed and up to date with information about the Company.
We recognise We believe markets may remain fragile over the short term that shareholders, especially those who hold their shares with investors reacting to any further negative news.
through nominee accounts, can find it difficult to find out the most up-to date news about TEMIT.
We send out However, even if the exceptional performance experienced the annual and half year report and accounts and notices by emerging markets in 2009 is not repeated in 2010, we of any significant company events.
We also release believe that the long term outlook for emerging markets information through the stock exchanges, such as remains positive.
In this type of environment, the Franklin Interim Management Statements.
Templeton Emerging Markets Equity Team is confident that their active bottom-up fund management and detailed Our website www.
co. uk displays the latest news, time-tested investment process leaves them well placed to price and performance information, portfolio details and uncover the best undervalued investment opportunities for quarterly web updates with the Investment Manager.
the website you can also ask to have the latest Company information e-mailed directly to you.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED The Companys AGM will take place on 23 July 2010.
AGM I would like to take this opportunity to invite all shareholders to attend the AGM to be held in the Mountbatten Room, The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS at 12 noon on Friday 23 July 2010.
More details of this meeting can be found on page 64 of this report.
Peter A Smith 15 June 2010 Indices above are shown on a total return basis in GBP.
Sources: Franklin Templeton Investments and Standard & Poors.
6 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
