Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 The financial results for 2010 re ect the enduring strength of Chairmans the business in challenging market and competitive conditions, Statement and the progress that has been made in re-establishing our position in North America.
Results In February this year, Fitch upgraded the Companys credit rating The results are explained in detail in the Business Review.
to BBB with stable outlook.
Revenue for the year of 908.5m was 4% lower than reported for I am also pleased to be able to report that the Companys two 2009 mainly due to the effect of the defection of a large number of fide ned bene t pension schemes in the UK now both have a brokers in North America following the raid by a competitor called funding surplus, achieved through a combination of contributions BGC in the second half of 2009.
Underlying revenue, adjusting for and very good investment returns.
These schemes, which became these broker defections, was unchanged compared with the prior obligations of the Company through the acquisitions of Tullett and year.
Given that market activity was more subdued overall in 2010 Prebon, had signi cant funding fide cits at the time of acquisition, than in 2009 this was a good performance.
with an accounting fide cit of 37m at the end of 2005.
At the end of 2010 the accounting surplus in the schemes was 24m.
Operating pro t of 152.4m was 11% lower than for 2009, re ecting a reduction in operating margin to 16.8%.
There is some Strategy and return on capital operational leverage in the business, and operating margins were Our strategy is to continue to focus on providing services as an adversely affected by lower levels of revenue.
The operating margin intermediary in wholesale Over The Counter OTC markets, and to was also adversely affected by the additional costs incurred in continue to build a business with the scale and breadth to deliver rebuilding the business in North America.
This process of rebuilding superior performance and returns, whilst maintaining strong the desks affected is now complete.
After lower nancing costs, adjusted pro t before tax of 139.7m We will continue to focus on those areas of business in which compares with 157.0m in 2009.
With a reduction in the effective we have a strong advantage and the opportunity to make good tax rate to 29.2%, adjusted basic earnings per share were 6% lower returns.
We are investing in the development of the business and in than last year at 46.4p.
broadening its activities as an inter-dealer broker and in the related areas of information sales and risk management services.
Return on One of the most attractive features of the business is its excellent capital is a key driver in our investment decisions and together with cash ow generation.
Operating cash ow for the year was cash ow and operating margin is one of the key measures the 132.0m and at the end of the year net funds amounted to 67.8m, Board uses to assess the quality of the financial performance.
an increase in the year of 58.8m.
The return on capital employed was 40% in 2010, despite the Dividends and shareholder returns reduction in operating pro t in the year.
The Companys overall objective is to maximise returns to shareholders over the medium to long term, at an acceptable Regulatory developments level of risk.
There have been signi cant developments during 2010 in the process of agreeing and introducing reforms designed to The Company is not managed around the short term share price strengthen the financial system and to improve the operation but we are mindful of the returns to our shareholders over time.
Total shareholder return for 2010 was 43% which compares to the return from the FTSE 250 index of 28% and the General Financials Although these developments will result in changes in the way in sector index of 28%.
This re ects the continuation of the recovery which some OTC trades are executed, reported and settled, we of the share price from a very low level at the end of 2008, but the believe that the effective operation of the vast majority of Board remains aware that the earnings multiple currently applied wholesale OTC markets will continue to need broker support in to the Company continues to be only single digit.
providing liquidity, and that the introduction of the proposals will be positive for the business as the role of the intermediary in these The Board recognises that dividends are an important element of markets is formalised.
shareholder return and is recommending a final dividend of 10.5p per share, making the total dividend for the year 15.75p per share, Risk an increase of 5% on the 15.0p per share paid for 2009.
The final The risk inherent in our activities is low.
As an intermediary, the dividend will be payable on 19 May 2011 to shareholders on the business does not take any trading risk and does not hold principal register on 26 April 2011. trading positions.
The majority of our broking activities are on a Name Give-Up basis where the business is not at any time a Financing counterparty to the trade, and in Matched Principal activities the The Company is conservatively nanced, which we consider is business only holds financial instruments for identi ed buyers and appropriate in current market circumstances.
Since the year end the sellers in matching trades.
Such transactions are settled rapidly and Company has entered into new 235m bank facilities that mature the business does not retain any contingent risks.
in February 2014 to replace the existing facilities that would have matured in January 2012.
The facilities include a 115m committed The Board and the Audit Committee, chaired by my colleague revolving credit facility that allows the Company to reduce its gross Richard Kilsby, has continued to thoroughly analyse the risks faced borrowings whilst retaining all of its previous financial exibility.
by the business and the controls in place to mitigate and manage The Companys other signi cant borrowing is through a 141m them.
This process is helped considerably by the fact that the bond that matures in 2016.
The Company therefore has an business is well controlled, transparent and prudently managed.
attractive debt maturity pro le.
The Board has good visibility of the financial and operational 02 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 performance of the business and actively engages with senior The Board has continued to consider succession planning executives and internal specialists in understanding how the risks both to ensure that the Company has developing managers to are monitored and controlled.
take leadership roles and to plan the succession of the nonexecutive team.
The Business Review includes a detailed analysis of our risks.
It is not possible to eliminate risk in any business but, provided this one With effect from the beginning of this year the Company is subject continues to be competently managed and led, the nature of its to the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
One of the new trading activities and the controls in place should not give rise to provisions is that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be unacceptable levels of risk.
subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
We expect that we will transition to adopting this policy for the AGM in 2012 when we Remuneration will also seek shareholder approval to amend the Articles of The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 32 to 38.
The Association to replace the current requirement for directors to Remuneration Committee is chaired by my colleague Rupert Robson.
retire by rotation after three years with a requirement for directors to seek annual re-election.
One of the key areas of focus for the Remuneration Committee during the year was the FSA Remuneration Code the Code which Outlook was issued in final form in December.
The main principle of the The worlds financial markets remain unsettled, and although it is Code is that remuneration policies must be consistent with and dif cult to predict market conditions, it seems reasonable to expect promote sound and effective risk management.
The low risk nature that there will continue to be periods of volatility.
of the business is recognised in our classi cation as a Tier Four rm for the purposes of the application of the Code.
Underlying revenue, adjusting for the impact of the closure of the six satellite of ces in North America, is 3% higher in the first two In my statement last year I noted that after careful review of the months of the year than a year ago.
This re ects the bene t of the relationship between remuneration and risk, undertaken with the rebuilding in North America and the continued recovery in Asia.
bene t of external expert advice, we concluded that the risk arising We will continue to invest in the development of the business from our remuneration policies is low and that we did not believe across all three regions.
that our approach to remuneration gives rise to an increase in risk indeed since remuneration is performance based and The enduring strength of the business is the valuable service it losses can be rapidly identi ed it should discourage risk.
We have provides to clients through its ability to create liquidity through reviewed our remuneration policies and the terms of reference for price and volume discovery to facilitate trading in a wide range of the Remuneration Committee in the light of the Code, in order to financial instruments.
We believe that the introduction of the ensure that we were compliant with the policies and governance various regulatory proposals affecting the OTC markets will be aspects by the end of the year.
No signi cant changes were required.
positive for our business as the proposals formalise the role of the intermediary in those markets.
The changes in the regulatory Board composition and governance environment will result in changes in the way in which some trades The Company bene ts from having a strong and experienced are executed, reported and cleared.
We believe that we are well Board of directors who work well together in guiding the long term positioned to continue to provide a valuable service to clients and success of the Company.
The Board has carefully considered its that our offering can be developed to meet the requirements composition during the year.
Michael Fallon MP resigned as a non-executive director of the Keith Hamill Company in June following the general election as a precautionary Chairman measure in the event that his other commitments might have 8 March 2011 prevented him from serving effectively as a director.
When it became clear that this would not be an issue, we invited Michael to rejoin the Board, and he was re-appointed in September.
His depth of experience with the Company and the perspective he brings on City matters generally and on regulation in particular are very valuable to the Board and I am delighted he was able to rejoin us.
My colleague David Clark has been associated with the Tullett business as a non-executive director since 2000, and joined the Board of Collins Stewart Tullett in 2003 following the acquisition of the Tullett business.
He has therefore served as a director for eight years and as Senior Independent Director since June 2007.
David has kindly agreed to continue to serve as the Senior Independent Director until we complete the process of identifying his successor.
03 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 In this section: Business Review 05 Objectives, strategy and risk pro le 06 Regulatory developments 06 Overview 08 Operating review 11 Financial review 15 Risk management 20 Corporate social responsibility 04
