Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Chairmans Statement Patience is the companion of wisdom.
Saint Augustine World ex-UK index 16.7% and Witan Witans benchmark was 15.5%.
Your achieving a share price total return of Board is pleased that the comparable 18.9%.
The year had a happy ending Witan NAV total return is 18.9%.
The but there were some hairy moments share price rose by 16.2% in 2010 along the way which meant financial which, combined with dividends paid markets experienced significant during the year, resulted in a total volatility and something of a whiteshareholder return which was also knuckle ride during the summer.
The twelve month figures are rally lasting until April, the uncertainty important but a longer term over the possible withdrawal of fiscal perspective is a better indicator of what stimulus and monetary policy changes an investment in Witan might offer.
implemented in 2009 was sharpened by Over five years the Witan NAV total the explosion of a full-blown European return has been 38.1% which translates debt crisis and the consequent fears for into a 6.7% per annum compound rate the viability of Europes financial sector.
of return, while the share price total This gave investors a real shock but it return has been 7.1% per annum, also obscured the reality of the ongoing despite the market crisis in 2008. recovery in the global economy.
Portfolio Attribution As the year progressed, better Witans outperformance of its fundamentals manifested themselves benchmark during 2010 amounted on the back of loose global monetary to 3.4%, attributable to a range of policies.
A robust recovery in corporate factors.
The portfolio generated profitability reduced the risk of a outperformance net of fees of 3.1%, double-dip recession, unemployment share buy-backs contributed 0.5% and stabilised and household bank balance gearing which was increased ahead of sheets were rebuilt.
The apparent the second half market recovery a improvement in visibility has led further 1.9%.
Offsetting these gains investors to end 2010 in a positive were borrowing costs -0.7% and frame of mind.
The script for 2011 operating costs and tax -1.3%.
may well not be very different.
The Company finished the year with a Increased volatility in financial markets similar level of gearing to the end of has persuaded the Board that a more 2009 but this conceals a number of NAV total return ahead of pro-active approach to the active moves.
There was a positive benchmark by 3.4% management of the Trust should be decision to increase gearing to a peak adopted.
Your Board, therefore, took of 13% during the summer correction.
NAV total return over last five the decision to sell the more index After the market rallied, gearing was years of 38.1% exceeding aware proportion of the portfolio and reduced back to 5.4% by the year end.
benchmark by 6.5% replace it with managers that Apart from the decision to close the increased gearing at market low demonstrate skills in managing the remainder of the enhanced index point in June economic cycle and picking stocks.
The fund mandates, replacing them with Board has also supported a more active dividend increased for the 36th active stock pickers, the international approach to the management of risk consecutive year portion of the Companys assets was through the variable use of gearing, restructured to reduce the proportion portfolio repositioned on 100% employing equity index futures and managed in separate geographical active lines with a more pro-active investment in specialist funds.
This entailed closing a approach to risk management important changes are set out in detail Europe ex-UK mandate replacing it in the Investment Section of the Opening Remarks with a pan-European remit and Business Review on pages 11 to 17.
It has been another good year for closing the Japanese and US specialist equities and for Witan shareholders, Performance and Shareholder Returns mandates, merging them into a with the FTSE All-Share Index giving In the twelve months ended focused global stock-selection a total return of 14.5%, the FTSE 31 December 2010 the total return of mandate.
Finally, a specialist 3 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Chairmans Statement continued Performance Attribution for the year ended 31 December 2010 based on the Companys financial statements Net asset value total return 18.9% Portfolio investment total return 18.6% Benchmark total return 15.5% Benchmark total return 15.5% Relative investment performance 3.1% Gearing impact 1.9% Share buy-backs 0.5% Interest on cash, etc 0.0% 2.4% 5.5% Borrowing costs -0.7% Operating costs and tax -1.3% -2.0% Outperformance 3.4% 3.4% The totals on each side may not add up because of roundings.
Emerging Markets manager was in expenses but it will continue to or completely, close in 2011, justifying appointed, to give further direct seek ways of keeping expenses as low the decision to use our revenue reserve exposure to faster growing areas of as practicable.
to cover what is likely subject to the the global economy.
unforeseen to be a temporary hiatus We have taken the opportunity of the in our incoming revenue.
Total Expense Ratio manager changes during the year to update many of our fee structures, to This is the 36th consecutive year Including performance fees our Total ensure that they give value for money during which we have increased the Expense Ratio TER was 8 basis for Witan shareholders, while still dividend.
The chart on page 5 shows points higher at 1.07% 2009: 0.99%.
enabling us to attract high calibre how our dividends have increased Excluding performance fees, the TER managers to look after our assets.
Dividend Share Buy-Backs and Discount These figures should be evaluated Your Board has declared a second The Company purchased a total of 4% against the weighted average TER of interim dividend of 6.5 pence per of the starting shares in issue during 0.88% excluding performance fees share, to be paid to shareholders on the year.
Buy-backs were at a higher for the AIC Global Growth sector 1 April 2011, making a total level of 3% in the first half of the year source: AIC and of 2.1% for the distribution for the year of 10.9 pence but there was reduced net selling in open-ended multi-manager sector 2009: 10.5 pence.
This represents an the market during the second half so source: IMA, Financial Express.
increase of 3.8% over 2009 and that the level of share buy-backs Although the average level of assets maintains our policy of increasing reduced to 1%.
These share buy-backs was higher, which reduced the impact dividends at least in line with generated an increase in net asset value of fixed costs, the move to fully active inflation.
We have drawn 2.6 million per share of 0.5%, as well as helping to management increased base from our revenue reserves to cover the maintain the discount close to our management fees and there were increased payment, leaving us with a desired target of a sustainable level of increased one-off legal and revenue reserve of 38m, equivalent to 10% or below.
The share price discount administrative costs associated with close to two years dividend payments.
to the net asset value excluding the transition to a new administrator A number of one-off effects, such as income, with debt at fair value ended for the Witan Wisdom and Jump manager transitions and the BP the year at 9.9%, compared with 9.2% Savings schemes.
Your Board is pleased dividend cut, left us with a revenue at the end of 2009.
The average to note that shareholders earned good shortfall in 2010.
Our forecasts discount for the year on this basis was returns in 2010 in spite of this increase indicate that this gap will substantially, 11.1% 2009: 11.0%.
4 Annual Report 2010 10 Year Growth in Witans dividends per share versus UK the significant changes implemented Consumer Price Inflation during 2010, are set out in the 140 11.5 Business Review on pages 6 to 17.
AGM 130 Our Annual General Meeting will be 10.5 held at Merchant Taylors Hall on Tuesday 10 May 2011 at 2.30 pm.
120 Formal notice of the meeting is set out 9.5 in the accompanying circular to 110 shareholders.
With my fellow directors, I look forward to the opportunity to 8.5 meet you then for the Companys 100 103rd AGM.
However Witan dividend in pence per share left scale CPI Index right scale politicians are performing a high wire Source: Datastream act, trying to balance the imperative of The Board pertinent knowledge and we look continued economic growth on the one In line with what is now best practice, forward to his contribution to the hand and the need to resolve the debt an independent Board Review was business.
It would seem that commissioned in 2010 to find out how Andrew Bell joined the Board and took higher inflation is probably the we might operate more effectively.
The over responsibility as Chief Executive inevitable outcome.
An additional and Board has conducted an annual Officer in February 2010.
Changes to less predictable complication is the internal evaluation for a number of the way in which the Trust is managed recent widespread political change years but the periodic use of an have been highlighted in this statement affecting the Arab world.
This has led to external specialist ensures a fresh look and in the Business Review on pages 6 a rise in the oil price, which threatens to it can be helpful to see ourselves as to 17.
Your Board is encouraged by undermine economic growth in oil others see us.
The review concluded these changes, which have been led by consuming countries.
that your Board is performing at a high Andrew, and believes they are standard and has also made a number In recent days, the world has been appropriate to enable Witans of helpful suggestions for maintaining transfixed by the enormity of the shareholders to benefit from the more and building upon this.
earthquake in Japan and the subsequent changeable economic conditions which inundation of a wide area of Japans East At the AGM in May, Rory McGrath seem likely to prevail in coming years.
retires after fifteen years as a director of coast by tsunamis.
It is too soon to gauge Witans Differentiated Approach Witan.
He has been a director of Witan the consequences, in the wake of the Witan is unique amongst investment Investment Services Limited since its tragic loss of life and the damage to trusts in operating a fully-fledged inception in 2005 and has sat on the nuclear and other infrastructure.
multi-manager structure for the Remuneration Committee for the past Notwithstanding these immediate management of its assets.
Rory has been instrumental in uncertainties, your Board believes that in benefit from the specific skills of leading Witans marketing strategy the years ahead a well diversified particular managers, as well as from his early days as a director and portfolio of global equities offers the reducing the performance volatility his experience, particularly in this opportunity to participate in positive that can come from having a single field, has made a large contribution to longer term trends in the global manager.
This structure is overseen by Witans fortunes over his time as a economy, as well as offering some the Companys executive team, which director of your company.
protection against the risks of higher is responsible for managing risk inflation.
We welcome Richard Oldfield, who appetite by actively varying gearing as will be joining the Board in May.
With well as taking advantage of specialised Harry Henderson his experience across the investment opportunities which fall outside the Chairman management industry spanning thirty investment managers remits.
The 15 March 2011 three years, he brings a wealth of details of how the process works, and 5 pence
