Chairman's Statement Centrica performed well in 2010 Sir Roger Carr Chairman will be needed.
I believe Centrica has a leading role to play, both Centrica has made great strides in 2010 upstream in gas production and power generation, and downstream towards achieving the goals we set out in homes and businesses securing reliable, lower carbon sources of energy for the years ahead and helping our customers last year, building on our core expertise take control of their energy use.
in the provision of energy and energy We were the first of the major suppliers to reduce gas prices for residential customers early in the year and we achieved significant related services to deliver strong growth in UK residential energy customer accounts.
Through a combination the combination of higher forward energy prices and rising non-commodity costs necessitated an increase in our gas and of operational excellence and carefully electricity prices in December.
We recognise the impact that targeted investment, Centrica is well higher energy prices have on our customers, particularly during periods of very cold weather.
We continue to work closely with all placed to continue to grow.
our customers to help them manage their energy consumption, while targeting assistance to our most vulnerable customers, 2010, my seventh year as Chairman, has seen worldwide energy especially the elderly.
While wholesale gas prices in North America have remained low mainly due to the I am pleased to say that following the investments in Venture impact of shale gas, prices in the UK are around 40% higher in and British Energy in 2009 we now have a more balanced 2011 than they were in 2010.
With domestic sources of gas in business.
The combination of our own gas production and a decline and rising levels of demand in the Far East, the need for clearly differentiated mix of low carbon power generation gives the UK to secure future supplies is essential.
In the UK it is clear us great flexibility.
Most notably, the considerable success we that liquefied natural gas LNG has an increasingly important role recorded during the year in our gas and oil drilling programme to play.
I was therefore pleased we were able to conclude a is testament to the skills and expertise of our upstream team.
contract that secures significant volumes of gas for the UK from Continued investment will enable us to replace and develop Qatar, the worlds largest exporter of LNG, sufficient to meet 10% reserves where opportunities to create value have been identified.
of UK residential gas demand over the next three years.
In North America, we have taken important steps in delivering our The UK power market is entering a period of transformation.
The strategy of building a larger, more vertically integrated energy Governments consultation on Electricity Market Reform will lead business, through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions.
to major changes in energy policy.
If the country is to meet its North America presents an important opportunity for Centrica to climate change targets, substantial reductions in carbon intensity expand our business outside the UK, by applying our core expertise in markets that are open to competition in the pursuit of building shareholder value.
Dividend The Board is proposing a final dividend of 10.46 pence per share to be paid in June 2011, bringing our full-year dividend to 14.3 pence per share, an increase of 12%.
This is in line with our policy of delivering sustained real growth in the ordinary dividend, and is a reflection of the significant increase in earnings we have delivered during the year.
Board changes I am delighted to welcome two new Non-Executive Directors to the Board who bring considerable experience, skills and value.
They strengthen its composition and improve the Boards succession planning and diversity.
Ian Meakins was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company in October.
Ian is chief executive of Wolseley Group, the FTSE 100 heating, plumbing and building materials distributor.
In December we announced the appointment of Margherita Della Centricas F3-FA platform Valle as a Non-Executive Director of the Company, effective prior to being towed out January 2011.
Margherita is group financial controller for to the North Sea 2 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 Vodafone Group Plc and brings the total number of women on how to plan for cold weather and keep homes warm, and Centricas Board to three.
They have both become members of provided information on support that may be available.
Centricas Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Our innovative work with schools enables them to embrace new It is one of our key governance objectives to have a Board which, technologies, while also helping the next generation to understand in its diversity, reflects our customer base as far as possible.
the importance of energy efficiency.
We have also continued our These appointments have helped us to make real progress partnership with British Swimming, which benefits families across towards that goal, balancing youth with experience, and placing the country as well as providing support for some of our most those in full-time executive employment alongside others with a promising athletes.
I am therefore pleased with I am particularly proud of the contribution made by our employees the progress we have made this year, to strengthen and who have given more than 50,000 hours of their time over the reinvigorate the Board as an integral part of our long-term year, bringing considerable skills and experience to a wide range succession planning programme.
Most notably, our employees in North America In addition, the Board continues to pursue high standards of contributed over 10,000 volunteering hours in their local governance with rigorous annual Board evaluation reviews.
The communities, an increase of some 70% from 2009 and a adoption of a disciplined process has continued to ensure a commendable achievement.
culture of openness and transparency where the strengths of the The future Board are identified and areas for improvement clearly highlighted.
This year the review confirmed the enthusiasm and engagement Centrica has made real progress during 2010, delivering of Board members and highlighted an appetite for greater substantial growth from a more robust business.
We will continue knowledge of our North American competitors and the potential to drive improvements in the underlying business and have a full for new technologies in our customer offering.
programme of investment planned for the year ahead.
Our employees We will also consult closely with the Government over Electricity Market Reform to ensure that an appropriate framework is developed Our people are central to the success of the Company and I thank in addition to setting a carbon price floor to stimulate each of our employees for their hard work and dedication, investment in the low carbon forms of generation that will be particularly during the adverse weather conditions experienced necessary to meet the countrys environmental targets.
A stable during the year, which were the worst in living memory.
I am very regulatory climate will be essential, providing a level playing field, pleased that our British Gas engineers have embraced new working efficient and effective planning measures and appropriate financial arrangements which will enable us to provide a more flexible service incentives for industry to be able to make the long-term investments to our customers.
These are necessary changes which will set the that are required, for the benefit of our shareholders and business in good stead as we strive to provide our customers with customers alike.
warm, well lit and energy efficient homes and businesses.
As we enter 2011, our integrated model leaves us well placed Community to manage the pressures on the downstream business from lower consumption and higher commodity prices.
Our upstream Our work in the community is central to the way Centrica operates activities will benefit from those higher prices, and we will look as an environmentally and socially responsible business.
It is to our services and North American businesses to deliver particularly rewarding to be able to deliver tangible improvements further growth.
for the long term and to see communities embrace the opportunity to work with us.
Through our British Gas Essentials programme we have been able to help 340,000 of our most disadvantaged and vulnerable customers.
We provided additional direct financial support to help them through this winter, while offering free insulation and other energy efficiency measures which will deliver a lasting benefit.
We also launched our 12th annual winter campaign, in partnership Sir Roger Carr with Age UK, to help the elderly reduce their winter fuel bills.
The Chairman campaign distributed 350,000 packs, which included advice on 24 February 2011 To see more online, go to: www.
com report2010 Our business principles Our Group-wide business principles create a framework to help us make decisions in line with a consistent set of operating behaviours based on trust, integrity and openness.
Demonstrating integrity in corporate conduct 5.
Focusing on health, safety and security 3.
Enhancing customer experiences and business partnerships 8.
Investing in communities Our ongoing campaign to communicate these principles will help our employees, business partners and external audiences understand the standards we expect.
For more information, go to www.
Earnings and operating profit numbers are stated, throughout the Annual Report, before depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements where applicable see note 2 for definitions.
All references to profit or loss are stated before share of joint venture and associate interest and tax.
All references to underlying profit in North America exclude 61 million of cost incurred in 2009 relating to the write-off of final debt balances in Texas and other one-off items.
The Directors believe these measures assist with better understanding the underlying performance of the Group.
The equivalent amounts after exceptional items and certain re-measurements are reconciled at Group level in the Group Income Statement.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements are described in note 9.
Adjusted earnings and adjusted basic earnings per share are reconciled to their statutory equivalents in note 14.
All current financial results listed are for the year ended 31 December 2010.
All references to the prior period, the prior year, 2009 and last year mean the year ended 31 December 2009 unless otherwise specified.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3
