OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS MESSAGE Environment and the community We are proud to be involved with the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games and see this as an opportunity to contribute to a great event not just for London but for the whole of the UK and the rest of the world.
In keeping with our tradition of helping others, BT people will be volunteering and contributing to the Games and our network will provide a lasting legacy beyond.
We rmly believe in investing in young people and I am delighted that BT is stepping up its commitment to the Modern Apprenticeship scheme.
BT is committed to a sustainable environment and has set one SIR MICHAEL RAKE of the most aggressive corporate carbon reduction targets in the CHAIRMAN world.
We have made considerable progress, reducing the carbon intensity of our global business by 54% compared with our 1997 baseline.
By 2020 we aim to have reduced our emissions by 80%.
As we promised, 2010 has been a year for delivery.
After the The Board challenges of the last financial year, we focused our efforts on I was delighted that Tony Ball, chief executive of BSkyB from 1999 starting to improve BT Global Services performance and reducing to 2003, joined the Board in July 2009.
He brings great experience our cost base so that we could emerge stronger from recession.
of international telecoms and broadcasting.
While the economy is still challenging, I am delighted to say our Patricia Hewitt, who joined the Board in March 2008, has taken determination has paid off and we have delivered results ahead on the role of Senior Independent Director, which had been of our original expectations for the year.
previously held by Maarten van den Bergh, who stepped down Dividends from the Board in July 2009.
Last year we said we wanted to rebase the dividend to a level which I would like to thank Deborah Lathen, who stepped down from we were confident was sustainable and from which it could grow.
the Board in January 2010 at the end of her three year term.
She The Board is committed to delivering progressive dividends, while brought helpful insights into the international telecoms market and balancing the need to invest in the business, support the pension regulatory matters, for which I have been very grateful.
fund and reduce our net debt.
Given our good performance in I continue to work with the Nominating Committee to ensure we terms of free cash ow generation this year, the Board is proposing have the appropriate skills and experience at Board level to guide a final dividend of 4.6p, making a total of 6.9p for the full year.
This the business through its next stages of development.
represents 6% growth over last year, in line with our indication Hanif Lalani, Chief Executive of BT Global Services and formerly of around a 5% increase.
Group Finance Director between 2005 and 2008, stepped down from the Board in January 2010 and left the company in March Pension fund 2010.
Jeff Kelly was appointed as Chief Executive of BT Global In February we announced that BT had reached agreement with Services and as a member of the Operating Committee in January the Trustee of the BT Pension Scheme on the triennial funding 2010.
Jeff had 25 years experience at EDS, the global IT services valuation of the pension scheme and a recovery plan for the 9bn rm, where he most recently ran their US$10bn business in the deficit.
I was disappointed, given the significant amount of work Americas.
Jeffs task will be to improve the performance of BT done by the Trustee and the prudent assumptions we had agreed, Global Services and build on its position as a global leader in that the Pensions Regulator had substantial concerns with certain networked IT services.
We and the Trustee continue to work My thanks go to the rest of the Board who have continued with the Pensions Regulator to progress this matter.
Since the to support me and the executive management through these valuation date the schemes investments have increased in value challenging times.
The future Regulation The year ahead will have its challenges as the world economy In the current economic environment it is imperative that we avoid struggles to recover from the long recession.
No one knows when, protectionism and establish a truly level playing eld for businesses.
or by how much, conditions will improve.
However, we believe we We continue to work with governments and regulators in the UK, can drive efficiency, provide even better customer service and the EU and around the world for open and fair wholesale access to deliver a better future for all our stakeholders.
telecoms networks, whether xed or mobile, and to premium pay TV content to drive competition and avoid inequalities and excessive pricing in the broadband market.
Our own access network is open to all-comers on an equivalent basis and it is because of this that the UK has one of the most competitive and vibrant telecoms markets.
This benets everyone, be they our competitors or our customers.
We seek consistency and ask only in other markets what we offer in the UK market.
SIR MICHAEL RAKE CHAIRMAN 12 MAY 2010 4 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
