Chairmans statement The total dividend in respect of 2010 is 23 pence per share, an increase of 7 per cent.
Lars Emilson ESAB and Howden as a means of generating long-term value for shareholders.
The Board recognises that an important component of shareholder value is the dividend paid to the Companys shareholders.
In recognition of the Companys improved performance in 2010, the Board has declared an increased second interim dividend of 15.5 pence per share 2009: 14.5 pence per share, making a total dividend in respect of 2010 of 23 pence per share 2009: 21.5 pence per share, an increase of 7 per Dear Shareholder cent.
It is anticipated that the dividend will be paid on 6 May I am pleased to report that in 2010 Charter achieved improved 2011 to holders of ordinary shares registered on 15 April 2011. results with revenue, adjusted operating profit and adjusted earnings per share all well ahead of 2009.
Going forward, the Board intends to continue to grow the dividend in a way that reects the overall performance of the Company and A particular feature of the year was the divergence in the performance of different regions and industries.
Despite the the general economic and financial conditions in the principal markets in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate.
success that Charter has had in growing its businesses globally, Europe remains the region where most profit is generated.
Corporate governance Here, conditions were mixed and while some countries and We assessed the performance and effectiveness of the Board industries performed well, others remained in recession which and its Committees during the year and action was taken to undoubtedly impacted Charters overall performance in the year.
address the key points coming out of the review.
It is by no means certain how quickly there will be a more Corporate governance is monitored by the Board on an general return to economic growth across all the regions ongoing basis to ensure the policies and procedures we have in which Charter operates, and we are very aware that the in place continue to be effective and appropriate and that key economies and financial systems in Europe and across risks are kept under review.
In 2010 we updated our policies the world remain vulnerable to further shocks.
on anti-bribery and corruption and whistleblowing and reissued The Board believes that the continuation of the measures our Code of Conduct and equal opportunity policy.
taken by the Company in recent years to strengthen and I am very pleased to note that we have seen further good improve its businesses are crucial to its ability to grow progress in our health and safety performance.
On the profitability in the future.
Key parts of this are to invest in environmental side, the benets from the projects we have efficient plants and systems, to continue a strong research undertaken to improve environmental efficiency are now being and product development programme and to make selective seen in the business.
acquisitions where there are opportunities to do so.
Employees For these reasons, the Board believes that Charter should On behalf of the Board and shareholders I would like to thank seek to maintain the balance sheet strength which has been all Charters employees for their hard work and the contribution successfully built up in recent years and which continued in they made to the Company in the year.
I continue to be 2010, so that at the end of the year, shareholders funds stood impressed with the quality and dedication of the people we at 636 million, an increase of 86 million during the year.
have in our businesses around the world.
The Board pays close attention to the Companys funding position.
Concluding comments At 31 December 2010, net cash stood at 2 million.
The net cash By focusing on profit and cash generation, and through outow for the year of 49 million reects the re-absorption of cash maintaining a strong balance sheet, the Board believes that the into working capital as ESABs business recovered, as well as Company has the opportunity to make further progress in 2011 capital expenditure and the payment of dividends to shareholders.
in what is likely to continue to be an uncertain economic and It is a strategic objective to tighten ESABs working capital whilst financial environment.
continuing to grow its revenue and profit.
Lars Emilson Shareholder value and dividend Chairman The Boards review of the Companys strategy confirmed that 17 February 2011 Charter will continue to focus on the development of both Charter International plc 04 Annual Report 2010
