4 Business overview Statement by the Chairman Over the last five years, the Group has achieved substantial growth through a well-defined strategy of double digit organic growth together with a focused and well-executed programme of acquisitions.
In my first Statement as Chairman, Roke a leading UK developer of Highlights I am delighted to report that the Group advanced sensors, signal processing, Revenue up 18% to 597.1 million increased its revenue by 18% to 597.1 million communications and network and generated an underlying operating solutions for the countermeasures, Underlying operating profit profit of 135.6 million, an increase of 18% counter-improvised explosive device up 18% to 135.6 million on last year.
Two thirds of the growth was counter-IED, counter-terrorism and Underlying profit before tax organic.
The Groups underlying profit before industrial markets.
up 14% to 116.8 million tax increased 14% to 116.8 million and its These acquisitions greatly enhance the underlying earnings per share rose 15% to Underlying earnings per share Groups capabilities and market access up 15% at 246p 246p.
With the continuing strong growth in across our chosen business segments, earnings, the Board is recommending a final and are expected to make a significant Profit before tax 89.1 million dividend of 42p, which gives a total dividend contribution to our future growth strategy.
Basic earnings per share 189p for the year of 59p, an increase of 18% over last year.
Balance sheet, cash flow and debt Total dividend per share for the year The Board is committed to maintaining up 18% at 59p The order intake for the Group increased by a solid balance sheet, and the Group has 31% to a new annual record of 824.3 million, Key information once again produced a healthy underlying and we entered the 2011 financial year with operating cashflow of 126.1 million, Underlying profit before tax an order book of 803.3 million, 44% higher demonstrating the reliable strong cash than last year.
The order book today has generation of the businesses.
reached a new record high of 902 million 116.8m 12% higher than at the year end, and this We chose to debt-fund our acquisitions during underpins our confidence in the prospects the year, principally utilising our $280 million 14% for further growth in 2011. of private placement loan notes which have Underlying earnings per share a maturity date of 2016 and 2019.
Whilst the Since my appointment as Chairman cost of acquisitions has increased our gearing on 1 October 2010, I have taken the level to 95%, I am confident that, with our 246p opportunity to visit many of our continued strong cash generation, this high manufacturing operations around the level of gearing will reduce in 2011.
I have been most impressed with what I have seen of the Groups technical Our working capital facilities were due for Dividend per ordinary share and manufacturing skills, and it has enabled renewal in March 2012 but recognising the me to observe the strong profit and growth significant corporate refinancing that is due 59p culture which is at the heart of the Groups to occur in the UK in the latter part of 2011 excellent performance over many years.
and early 2012, we took the opportunity to 18% I feel confident that this characteristic will refinance the Groups facilities early and enable growth to continue in the future.
Before acquisition related costs, intangible completed this on 14 January 2011.
Our new amortisation arising from business facilities, which are unsecured, now have The Group invested 177 million in the combinations and loss gain on fair an extended maturity to April 2015 and are value movements on derivatives totalling acquisition of five new businesses during 27.7 million 2009: 6.8 million 55 million higher than before.
the year: the three most significant were: Hi-Shear Technology Corporation a Group strategy US-based, leading manufacturer of high Over the last five years, the Group has reliability energetic products for use in achieved substantial growth through key US space and defence programmes, a well-defined strategy of double digit including satellites, missile defence and organic growth together with a focused and aircrew egress: well-executed programme of acquisitions.
The development of new products is an Mecar a manufacturer of medium and essential component of this organic growth large calibre ammunition, particularly for and the 81% increase in our investment in modern, light armoured vehicles, based research and development during the year in Belgium: should provide an exciting foundation for the future.
We also intend to pursue further Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 5 acquisitions of selected companies that Prospects expand our high technology capabilities and Over the last twelve months, the market position, including the consolidation European defence market has weakened of fragmented markets.
considerably with many nations reducing or deferring defence expenditure as Board of directors they struggle to cope with rising deficit Ken Scobie retired as a director at the problems.
Recent announcements end of September, after thirteen years as from the US Government on their 2012 Chairman.
During that period, the Group budget intentions have provided greater has been transformed as a business and is assurance in the future prospects for that now a significant worldwide manufacturing market.
We remain confident that the USA organisation, which has delivered represents an area of future growth in all substantial shareholder value consistently of our market segments.
However, it is our over a number of years.
On behalf of the non-NATO customers that represent the Board, I would like to pay tribute to Kens largest opportunity for growth over the contribution to the Groups development next five years.
In 2010, our revenues from and to thank him for the leadership he has Middle East and Far East customers grew by provided to the Board.
We shall miss his over 60% and we believe that future growth wisdom and guidance, and wish him well in in these regions should be substantial.
Our closing order book increased During the year, Air Marshal Sir Peter substantially to 803 million and, since Norriss and Mr Much completed their the year end, it has increased further to second three year terms as non-executive 902 million.
This strong order book, our directors.
Their appointments were solid balance sheet and our proven strategy extended on a rolling basis, pending my provide clear visibility of the prospects for appointment, to assist with a smooth 2011 and should provide the foundation for transition.
I will be considering succession further growth in the future.
plans for the non-executive directors over the forthcoming year but in the meantime, the knowledge and experience of all my fellow Board members is of considerable benefit as I continue to become more familiar with the Group.
Dividends In accordance with the Groups established policy of increasing dividends commensurate P C F Hickson with the growth in the Groups profitability, Chairman the Board is recommending a final dividend 18 January 2011 for the year of 42p 2009: 36p.
With the interim dividend paid of 17p 2009: 14p, this gives a total dividend for 2010 of 59p 2009: 50p, an increase of 18%, in line with the revenue and underlying operating profit growth of 18% for the full year.
The dividend is covered 4.2 times by underlying after tax earnings and with a solid balance sheet and cash flow, the Group remains well positioned to increase its return to shareholders.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
