N O I T A N R E T N I G N I Section 1: Overview CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A RESILIENT PERFORMANCE Over the past year the world economic environment has presented the most difficult trading environment seen for more than 50 years.
I am pleased to be able to report that Chloride has performed resiliently: better than many other industrial businesses and most of its major competitors.
I am grateful to all of Chlorides people, each of whom responded professionally to the challenge presented by the economic situation.
Mindful of the long-term growth prospects without affecting service to customers.
for the business, we adopted a dual approach The manufacturing joint venture in China in the face of a weak economic environment.
continued to develop well and provided a useful underpin to product margins in The first element of this approach reected a competitive market.
our short-term priorities of customers, cash generation and cost control.
The second part of the approach, reecting NORMAN BROADHURST CHAIRMAN our confidence in the long-term growth The service business performed robustly, characteristics of our markets, was to continue as expected, and continued to grow as we the strategic development of the business The restructuring programme, the cost focused on maintaining excellent support and we made a number of carefully assessed of which was treated as exceptional, to customers in the prevailing economic acquisitions, as a result of which the cost 5.9 million and delivered savings climate.
The strength and robustness of business is now better positioned to grow of 2.5 million in the current year, and will service revenues, together with good as markets recover.
deliver 3.8 million in a full year.
growth in product sales into the Energy & Infrastructure markets, helped mitigate The mission-critical importance of reliable and Adjusted profit before tax fell by 5% to the effect of a marked weakness in high-quality electrical power is recognised by 41.4 million 2009: 43.7 million, giving commercial markets caused by the poor our blue chip customers, and this fundamental adjusted earnings per share of 11.0p 2009: economic environment.
customer need underpins the demand for 11.5p, a decrease of 4%.
Basic earnings  per share were 7.7p 2009: 10.6p.
Operating cash generation was strong and Chloride well to offer excellent growth potential consequently, together with the prudent over the longer term.
Adjusted operating cash ow was management of the balance sheet, gearing 48.5 million 2009: 43.0 million, remained low.
With proactive management KEY FINANCIALS representing 108% of adjusted operating offacilities, thebusinesstraded andcontinues Total sales increased by 3% to 336.0 million profit, despite an increase in stock associated to trade with more than adequate 2009: 326.7 million, down 2% at constant with the growth of the order book.
exchangerates CER withproductsalesdown 3% and service revenue up13%.
Adjusted Netdebt  Early in the year we instituted a operating profit was down 4% 9% at CER 2009: 15.4 million after funding acquisitions restructuring programme, cognisant of the to 44.7 million.
The operating margin, of 37.2 million, though operating cash ow long-term growth potential of the business, reecting the resilience of the business, was more than sufficient to cover capital to reduce head ofce and back ofce costs decreased by only 0.9% points to 13.3%.
expenditure, dividend payments, additional pension obligations, tax and interest.
04 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 V R E S S T E K R A M L A STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT In China our manufacturing joint venture We renegotiated replaced all expiring credit During the year we continued to invest in in Shenzhen progressed well reaching facilities at sensible market rates and the the development of the Group to improve the target margins despite lower than business has more than sufficient headroom the geographic and market sector balance target volumes.
to sustain investment in the business.
In the UK we made two bolt-on service DIVIDEND Most signicantly we expanded our presence acquisitions, strengthening our  in the Energy & Infrastructure sector with leading presence.
of 3.30p per share 2009: 2.85p, reecting our three important acquisitions: continued confidence in the Companys longThe global R&D team successfully completed termprospectswhich,  In December 2009 we acquired the development of the innovative Trinergy of 1.90p per share, gives a dividend for the year Automatismes Energie Electroniques product.
This was successfully launched during of 5.20p per share an increase of 11% on the Systmes SAS AEES, a French-based the year and is proving attractive to customers.
Subject to shareholders approval supplier of secure power solutions with at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the access to markets in the Middle East and BOARD final dividend will be paid on 2 August 2010 Russia as well as France.
This business is During a year of such general economic to shareholders on the register at close located in Lyon, France, as is our existing uncertainty, the Board remained unchanged.
of business on 9 July 2010. business Chloride Industrial Systems, This stability, together with their excellent which it complements well.
understanding of the business, served the OUTLOOK Group well.
Chloride is a balanced business serving In October 2009 the acquisition of international markets which have robust longEmergency Power Systems PLC EPS PEOPLE term growth characteristics driven by growing materially strengthened our presence On the Boards behalf, I would like to thank Energy demand and increasing Digitisation.
in the UK railway sector which we expect all of the employees for their hard work to grow well in the future.
and commitment in difficult economic Looking to the year ahead, the Group is very circumstances that has, without doubt, well positioned to benefit from decisions In May 2009 we acquired Custom Power, contributed to the resilience the Group taken over the last two to three years and, based in Houston, Texas, which provides has demonstrated during the year.
in particular, the measures taken to develop access to the North American Energy & the service business and reduce costs whilst Infrastructure markets for the first time.
I am pleased that the Chloride Academy continuing with the strategic development of continued to develop during the year the Group.
Accordingly, the business ended Our expansion in Asia was enhanced by demonstrating, despite the economic the financial year ended 31 March 2010 with a number of strategic actions: conditions, Chlorides commitment to the stronger market better cost positions than training and development of its people.
In India we acquired a further 41% of DB Power Electronics PVT Ltd DB Power During the year we agreed with the Pension The Board now sees clear, positive signs in to take our holding to 90%, improving our Trustees to cap the liabilities attached to the both our end markets and order intake trends, position in the dynamic high-growth Indian pensions in payment within the UK dened which together with a record opening order marketplace.
benefit scheme, at a cost of 2.4 million.
book, provides the Board with confidence in This was an important step in managing the the prospects for the Group for the year ahead.
We established our sales and service volatility in the Groups UK pension obligations.
business in Korea, and strengthened Longer term, we will continue to execute our our sales and service ofces in Vietnam, FINANCIAL POSITION provenstrategy,  the Philippines, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Chloride continued to manage its balance to access high-growth potential markets, and Azerbaijan, Turkey and the Middle East.
sheet prudently whilst maintaining investment develop the technology and services that meet in the business.
Net debt rose, following the the demands of our customers.
Accordingly, In Hong Kong, in May 2009, we took strategic acquisitions made during the year, the Board is confident that the long-term a 10% stake in Newtech Technology though strong operating cash ow more than prospects for the Group are very attractive.
Holdings Limited Newtech to improve covered all other non-acquisition related cash access to the Hong Kong and Chinese outows, including interest, dividends and NORMAN BROADHURST CHAIRMAN data centre markets.
