04 CHairmans statEmEnt Chairmans statement John nelson, Chairman Our rigorous focus on the performance of each asset is improving occupancy and income.
shareholders will be offered a scrip dividend Our regionally dominant shopping centres StrateGY alternative, details of which will be sent in a and accessible, conveniently located retail Hammerson aims to be the best ownerseparate letter.
parks continued to perform well.
Footfall was manager and developer of retail and office up at our shopping centres in both the UK property in the UK and France.
Our strategy Capital values increased over the year, with and France, which resulted in like-for-like is to outperform through two areas of focus: the value of the UK and French portfolios sales increases of 3.5% and 0.7% maximising income growth: and creating rising by 12.5% and 1.9% respectively.
respectively, ahead of national benchmarks.
a high quality property portfolio through Adjusted net asset value per share was Total like-for-like net rental income for the acquisition, development and asset 4.95 at 31 December 2010, a 17.6% year increased 3.5% on 2009. management.
Both areas are underpinned increase over the year.
POrtFOlIO MaXIMISInG InCOMe and We completed a number of disposals in 2010 We have a portfolio of exceptional quality OPeratIOnal CHanGeS to release capital for reinvestment in assets that continues to provide strong like-for-like At the beginning of the year we restructured offering superior returns.
In France, we sold income growth in a challenging environment.
our UK leasing teams and created the new stakes in both Espace Saint Quentin and Nevertheless, we are committed to role of UK Sales and Marketing Director, as OParinor, whilst retaining the management enhancing our returns by disposing of part of our approach to generate value for of the schemes.
In London, we sold mature assets and reinvesting in higher both retailers and Hammerson by focusing on Exchange Tower and our remaining stake in return opportunities where we aim to take key measures including footfall, retail sales, Bishops Square.
In aggregate, disposals in advantage of our strong financial position, affordability and customer satisfaction.
In the year raised 555 million, and 219 million first-class in-house property skills and France, towards the end of the year, we made was invested in acquisitions.
Further, we are taking transactions resulted in us recycling the significant new hires, including the Director forward development schemes from our of Finance and Director of Operations.
equivalent of 15% of our portfolio, which at significant pipeline.
the year-end was valued at 5.3 billion.
Retailers preference for strong trading In 2010 we made good progress in the locations was clear throughout 2010, and In the City of London, we purchased management of both our portfolio and our we have seen an improving trend in retail Leadenhall Court and a stake in 10 Gresham assets, as well as making important changes demand.
We continue to attract successful, Street.
These provide the opportunity to use to our operations, all of which should deliver expanding retailers into the portfolio, such as our asset management skills, whilst giving us improved returns for shareholders.
Forever 21 who opened their first European increased exposure to high quality property store at Bullring.
We signed 328 leases in in the heart of the City.
Retail parks remain reSultS 2 respect of approximately 119,000m in demand from our tenants and their across The Groups adjusted profit before tax our portfolio in 2010, and at the year-end the customers.
We took full control of Battery increased by 15 million to 145 million, and Retail Park in Birmingham by acquiring our Groups overall occupancy rate was 97.3%, adjusted earnings per share were 19.9 pence up from 95.4% at December 2009.
In the partners 75% stake, and acquired Wrekin compared with 19.7 pence for 2009.
The Retail Park in Telford.
In February 2011 we second half of the year, overall, new leases Board has proposed a final dividend of in the UK were signed 1% below ERV, with acquired SQY Ouest, a shopping centre in 8.8 pence per share, giving a total dividend Saint Quentin-en-Yvelines, Paris, adjacent to those in France 2% above.
UK rent reviews for the year of 15.95 pence per share, agreed in the year secured an annual uplift our existing Espace Saint Quentin centre.
We which compares to 15.45 pence for 2009. can create value by improving the tenant mix of 2.3 million.
The final dividend will be paid as a PID, but OvErviEW bUsinEss and FinanCial rEviEW gOvErnanCE FinanCial statEmEnts prOpErty pOrtFOliO HammErsOn plc annual rePOrt 2010 05 We have sold mature assets and reinvested in properties which offer better growth prospects through active management.
2 at SQY Ouest and providing common new 5,500m unit as part of a 20 million OutlOOK management of both centres.
Our rigorous focus on the performance of each asset is improving occupancy and In 2010 we made good progress with a FInanCInG income.
We have sold mature assets number of our development schemes in the Net debt at the year-end was 1.8 billion, and reinvested in properties which offer UK and France.
At Brent Cross Cricklewood, resulting in gearing of 52%, compared to better growth prospects through active where we have full planning consent, we 67% at 30 June 2010, with liquidity, cash and management.
Looking forward, our financial assumed control of the Cricklewood project undrawn facilities, of 1.0 billion.
At the end flexibility and continued asset recycling will by acquiring Brookfields stake.
We have of 2010 the weighted average maturity of the allow us to continue to take advantage of begun construction of Les Terrasses du Port, Groups borrowings, virtually all of which are opportunities which we believe will arise in Marseille, which will be one of the largest unsecured, was eight years, with 94% of the coming period.
retail developments in France over the next gross debt at fixed rates of interest.
We are currently discussing with retailers new schemes at Mantes and BOard CHanGeS Beauvais in northern France.
In the City of Earlier this year we announced that Simon London, we submitted a detailed planning Melliss will retire in June 2011 after 20 years 2 application for a 46,000m office with the Company, including 16 years as John Nelson development at London Wall Place on the Chief Financial Officer.
Simon has played a Chairman former St Alphage site.
We also have a central role as a member of both the Board 21 February 2011 cleared site and are seeking a pre-let at and the senior management team and on Bishops Place, our proposed mixed-use behalf of the Board and shareholders I would 2 development with 52,000m of office space.
like to thank him for his great contribution to We have a significant pipeline of other Hammerson and wish him well for the future.
development opportunities, in both the UK I am delighted to welcome Timon Drakesmith and France, which we will progress in a as Simons successor.
Timon has proven capability and sector expertise, as well as phased manner.
wider industry and financial experience.
We seek continually to improve our portfolio through extensions and redevelopments David Edmonds, who has served as a Non-Executive Director for eight years, which create new retail space, increasing the attractiveness to retailers and enhancing the will step down from the Board at the AGM in April.
Davids wisdom and advice have quality of the schemes.
We received planning 2 consents for an additional 7,700m of retail been invaluable, and I thank him for his significant input.
and leisure space at Silverburn, and for a 2 1,000m restaurant quarter at Bullring.
We have a portfolio of exceptional We also received consent for extensions at quality that continues to provide strong Abbey Retail Park, Belfast, and Battery Retail like-for-like income growth in a Park.
In January 2011 we received consent challenging environment.
2 for a 930m extension to Queensgate, which will allow us to accommodate Primark in a
