Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that despite 2010 being a year of further economic and market uncertainty, the Company delivered good revenue growth in certain Strategic Business Units, although this was masked by order slippages on significant US defence and security programmes in others.
Cobham was able to generate underlying earnings growth from flat Group revenue helped by early progress on its operational improvement programme that will enhance customer service.
Corporate development In my first year, I have visited many of the Groups businesses and have been impressed by the deep market insight and dedication of Cobhams employees.
It is clear to me that the financial results that the Group has been delivering over many years is due to the strategy of long term, focused investment in technology and a culture of innovation, enabling the Company to develop John Devaney Chairman differentiated products and services in its chosen markets.
The next stage of the Groups strategy roll out was announced with the interim results, including the launch of the Excellence in Delivery programme to improve efficiency and operational Highlights performance for our customers.
The programme will help ensure that the business is not just known for technology and agility, but also has a sector-leading reputation for performance.
Underlying EPS growth of 5% The early results are encouraging.
219m of free cash flow and year end During 2010 Cobhams technology and its contribution to exports was acknowledged with one net debt EBITDA down to 0.8 times of our businesses being granted a Queens Awards for Enterprise in the Innovation category and another, a Queens Awards for International Trade.
In the Innovation category, Cobhams wireless Recommended 10% increase in dividend digital audio and video link technology was recognised as a key contributor to numerous critical for the year and share buy-back programme applications, including disaster relief and counter terrorism.
of up to 150m In addition to generating distinctive technology internally, Cobham also strengthens its positions through acquisition, where this permits the Company to build scale in its markets.
In 2010 and early 2011, three transactions were completed for a total of US$175m that strengthen the Groups presence in the growing homeland security market.
Dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.372p, which will be paid on 3 June, representing an increase of just over 10% on the prior year.
The full year dividend of 6.00p is covered 3.3 times.
The Board has also decided to return capital to shareholders through a share buy-back of up to 150m.
The Board I succeeded David Turner as Chairman at the 6 May 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM, having been appointed to the Board on 1 February 2010 as Chairman designate.
David left the Board at Full year dividend the conclusion of the AGM to take up the position of Chairman at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, and we wish him well.
6.00p 10% On 1 December 2010, Michael Wareing joined the Board as a Non-executive director.
Michael was formerly Chief Executive of KPMG International and prior to that Chief Executive of KPMGs 2009: 5.45p Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
Michaels deep business experience and financial insight will be a valuable addition to the Board.
He will become chairman of Cobhams Audit Committee, when its current chairman, Peter Hooley, retires from the Board of directors in May 2011.
This is my first year Outlook There continue to be challenges and uncertainties in some of our markets.
As a consequence as Chairman of Cobham the rate of growth in our Technology Divisions remains at the level experienced during 2010. and I am pleased to report The business has been configured with a prudent view of top line growth for the current year and we have already accelerated integration plans to deliver 21m of cost savings in 2011. that despite 2010 being a challenging year in our markets, Cobham continues to have strong long-term positions in attractive markets with superior growth and is focusing its technology investment and acquisition strategy in areas of customer priority.
the business delivered 5% This approach, together with customer and cost benefits from the operational improvement plan, underlying earnings growth.
gives the Board confidence that Cobham will continue to make progress over the medium term.
John Devaney Chairman, 2 March 2011 4 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview
