Chairmans statement I am delighted to report another year in which we have delivered further progress in operating profit, margin improvement, free cash flow generation, and, importantly, a return to organic revenue growth.
Delivering Excitingly, we have reached record operating profit levels of over 1 billion in 2010.
Our strategy is clear: to deliver value to our shareholders from the significant opportunity in contract foodservice and from the growth value in our support services capability.
Operating with scale across 50 countries in both developed and, increasingly, emerging markets, we are able to take advantage of the growing outsourcing opportunity, providing local, regional and multinational clients with an efficient consistently and cost-effective solution to their multi-service requirements.
I am immensely proud of the world-class service our people continue to deliver to our customers and of their dedication to working to the highest standards whilst maintaining a culture of cost and operational efficiency.
The Management and Performance framework, MAP, which we introduced into the business in 2006, is now embedded across the Group.
The relentless focus on efficiency this has engendered is enabling us to drive further margin improvement as well as to reinvest in our business and in the exciting opportunities around the world, improving competitiveness and delivering returns for our shareholders.
The benefit of this investment is evidenced in the acceleration of new business wins over the year as we expanded our sales teams and spread sales and retention best practice across the Group.
Within an increasingly competitive market, this is a real achievement.
Whilst we are not yet seeing a return to cyclical growth, globally we are seeing some signs of economic stabilisation.
We are, therefore, now taking steps to position ourselves to take advantage of the significant growth opportunities in the food and support services markets in both developed and emerging countries.
Whilst organic growth remains our core focus, we have made a number of exciting infill acquisitions in 2010.
Within foodservice, we acquired Caterine Our relentless focus on efficiency is enabling Restauration S. A. S. a significant player in the Education and Healthcare sectors in France, one of our key markets.
We also us to drive further margin improvement as expanded our operations in India with the acquisition of Tirumala well as to reinvest in our business and in Hospitality Services, a strong regional provider of foodservice in Western India.
the exciting opportunities around the world, improving competitiveness and delivering In support services, we further strengthened our ability to offer multiservices in North America with the acquisitions of Hurley Corporation returns for our shareholders.
in Canada and Southeast Service Corporation in the United States of America.
The acquisition of Clean Mall and FB Facility in the first half of the year also marked our entry into the large support services market in Brazil.
Our recent acquisition of VSG Group Limited, a leading security services provider in the UK, significantly enhances a key service line in our bundled soft support services offering, increasing cross-selling opportunities across sectors in the UK.
Finally, our acquisition of IDA Service A S in Denmark, a well established Sir Roy Gardner operator of both food and support services, complements our existing Chairman operations and again, gives us valuable cross-selling potential.
Since the year end, we have continued to make infill acquisitions with the purchase of Reilimpa in Portugal, a support services business, and of Sabora in Spain, a foodservice business operating in the private education sector.
I am delighted to welcome these businesses into the Group and I look forward to more value creating acquisitions as we utilise the strength of our balance sheet to drive our growth plan forward.
8 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Commitment to corporate responsibility Our strategy As a Group we remain committed to delivering the highest standards We have a clear, focused strategy that is of responsible business practice.
Our Corporate Responsibility delivering value for our shareholders and has objectives are integral to achieving our overall strategy, enabling us to offer our clients, consumers and employees a safe, injury free and created a well-balanced and sustainable healthy workplace, serving food that is always safe to eat, nutritional business model with significant opportunities and which minimises our impact on the environment.
The values of to deliver continued growth.
our MAP framework are embedded in our Corporate Responsibility programme with our focus on reducing energy and waste consumption, operating a more sustainable supply chain and on maintaining a t Focus on our contract foodservice business healthy, productive and fully engaged workforce enabling us to operate t Grow our support services business in a more cost-efficient way and to deliver excellent results to all stakeholders as a result.
t Committed to giving our customers superior levels of service We are now into our third year of measuring our performance in t Focus on driving cost efficiencies this important area and our progress and drive for continuous improvement is set out in the Acting Responsibly section of this Report on pages 35 to 43. Dividend increase The strong results we have delivered this year give the Board the confidence to propose a rebasing of the dividend, with a final payment of 12.5 pence per share for payment on 28 February 2011.
36 This brings our total dividend for 2010 to 17.5 pence, a year on year increase of 33%.
Position in the FTSE 100 Index as at 30 September 2010 2009: 35 Leadership Tim Parker will be retiring from the Board with effect from 31 December 2010 and I would like to thank him for the contribution he has made to the Board over the years.
Tims experience and business knowledge have been of great value to the Boards deliberations and, on behalf of the Board, I wish him every success for the future.
32.6% We have an experienced and diverse Board, supported by strong leadership teams across the Group.
We have worked hard to put in Total dividend up 32.6% to 17.5p place effective succession and development programmes and the 2009: 13.2p excellent results we continue to achieve are a testament to this effort and to the emphasis we have put on what will continue to be an important area of focus for me.
Compass Group share price performance vs FTSE 100 Index 2010 Our people Our results are a reflection of the quality of our people across the Compass FTSE 100 world from the senior management to our teams in the units.
On behalf of the Board, Id like to thank all of my Compass colleagues 600 for their continued contribution and commitment to our clients, our consumers and our values.
550 Outlook 500 Compass has delivered another year of strong performance, despite 450 the continuing challenging economic conditions.
The return to organic revenue growth is encouraging.
400 Looking forward, Compass is well placed to exploit the significant 350 structural growth opportunity in both food and support services Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep 2009 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 around the world.
The pipeline of new business is strong and, in an environment where cost efficiency remains high on the agenda, we The FTSE 100 Index has been rebased to the Compass Group believe the benefits of outsourcing are clear.
share price on 30 September 2009 382.30 pence Our relentless focus on operating efficiency should enable us to continue to reinvest in growth whilst delivering steady margin Compass Group share price performance expansion.
In addition, the strength of our cash flow is enabling us vs FTSE 100 Index over the last 3 years both to reward shareholders and to accelerate growth through value creating infill acquisitions.
Our confidence in the future is reflected in 1 year 31% the Boards decision to rebase the dividend with an increase of 33% for the full year.
2 years 41% 3 years 90% Sir Roy Gardner Chairman 24 November 2010 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 9 07:23 Delivering daily Were passionate about great food.
Serving over four billion meals a year, our award-winning chefs work around the clock to create the very best menus with the best ingredients, often sourced to our specification direct from the growers, to meet the individual tastes of our millions of consumers around the world.
