04 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Aegiss 2010 performance, together with the successful management of change and continuity, gives us confidence as we face into 2011.
2010 was a year of further progress We continue to deliver an improved underlying operating performance in a demanding market environment.
05 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Continued progress I am pleased to report that 2010 was a Looking back, your Company has successfully achieved a very year of further progress.
We continue to deliver an improved full reorganisation and near replacement of its Board and senior underlying operating performance in a demanding market management over the last two years.
At the same time it has environment with the main achievements including: dealt effectively with the downturns in the world economy and in many of our major markets from late 2008 through 2009.
A return to full year revenue growth at our Synovate market We have significantly raised our operating performance and research business with improved sales, profits and margins strengthened key functions, the benefits of which are reflected following its recovery in the second half of 2009 in our results for 2010.
There is still work to do but we now have Continued strong above market growth from our Media in place an effective and settled Board, a strengthened reporting division with good organic growth, continued new business process and a more cohesive and better directed operational wins and increases in underlying operating profit and and strategic management team under the leadership of a very margins capable Chief Executive.
The latest proposals on Corporate Governance recommend that Overall, our underlying results, pre-exceptionals, delivered an Boards consider on a comply or explain basis the annual 8.4% increase in revenue, a 12.9% increase in operating profit election of all its directors.
This is a new initiative and will take and a 5.2% increase in earnings per share.
some time to settle and for Boards everywhere to consider fully These advances are covered in more detail in the Chief Executive the merits and demerits of this recommendation.
It is not and Business reviews.
A significant additional focus in the year without risks.
In this year the Board proposes to follow the has been the integration of our diverse and specialised media previous re-election guidelines by putting up for election those and digital services into an improved client-facing suite of appointed in 2010, Messrs Harold Mitchell, Executive Director services.
and Robert Philpott, Executive Director, and the second longest serving director, Lorraine Trainer who is due for re-election on The strategy of strengthening our balance sheet, extending the three year rule.
our long term debt profile and adding acquisition capability, announced last year, has worked well with the use of a US The Board has also discussed the question of a formal Board private placement and a successful convertible bond issue.
Given, however, the significant number of changes put us in a position to renegotiate our previously expiring five made, recent appointments and the part year period of the new year revolving credit facility of 450 million.
We now have in place Chief Executive, the Board decided to defer that process in 2010. a new five year deal, on acceptable terms.
These actions have I can confirm all members of the Board have made an effective been reinforced by the continuing benefits of a strengthened and significant contribution to the Board and the Company for reporting and cash management environment.
The strength of the balance sheet has allowed fuller Summary The strong performance in 2010 together with the development of a much more strategic programme on successful management of change and continuity gives us acquisitions.
At Synovate we announced an agreement to acquire confidence as we face into 2011.
Markets and the world economy a majority stake in a leading Russian research provider to have improved but there are still significant regional difficulties strengthen our position in that market.
We have developed our and areas of strategic imbalance.
We have made strategic media market position in China, with the Charm joint venture acquisitions and investments in Russia, Australia and in China.
and investment, and completed the 229.1 million Mitchell We remain focused on sustainable growth.
We expect to continue acquisition in Australia in November.
This transaction has to face a demanding and competitive market environment.
We transformed our market position there and increased our digital continue to focus on improvements and the development of profile and is expected to be an earnings enhancing acquisition quality integrated services which deliver support and solutions in its first full year.
It has also allowed us to further strengthen for our clients.
We believe that we have the strength and our Board with the appointment of Harold Mitchell, the founder resource to continue our progress.
of Mitchell with his media market knowledge and experience, Dividend Given our confidence in the short term outlook for as an Executive Director.
the Company, the Board has recommended a total dividend of Your board & management On the subject of Board matters we 2.75 per share for 2010.
This represents a 10% increase on the were pleased to appoint Jerry Buhlmann, the experienced Chief prior year.
Executive of our Media Division, as CEO of Aegis Group plc Aegis as a whole.
He took up the post on 1st May 2010 and Our people Over the last three years, our employees have brings continuity, energy and expertise.
He was selected with the worked in a demanding market environment.
Their success and assistance of an externally led evaluation process, and has made efforts have been rewarded by our performance in 2010.
Our a strong and effective start allowing me to step back future success depends on their continued efforts.
On behalf of immediately to a Chairman-only role, whilst maintaining the Board I would like to thank them for the progress they have maximum continuity for the business.
made and their continuous endeavours to further transform and improve our Company and its services.
John Napier Chairman BUSINESS REVIEW
