Chairmans statement In 2011, we will continue to invest in our infrastructure, our talents and skills, as well as enhancing our customers experience.
2010 was another year of strong designed to create long-term competitive progress for our Company.
The services contract base upon profit before tax once more grew by which these improvements operate grew by more than 20 per cent.
It is worth noting more than seven per cent in 2010 and the that Computacenter has delivered benefits will increase as time passes.
We greater than 20 per cent compound will continue our relentless focus on cost annual growth in earnings per share and expense management while supporting over the last four years.
We gained these significant investments.
market share and grew our services This year marks the 30th anniversary of the revenues by 6.5 per cent.
The German founding of Computacenter.
Since then business showed great resilience in the Company has grown considerably recovering from a poor first quarter, in size and this evolution has required and our French business became Computacenter to adapt to the ever profitable again.
We are pleased with changing legislative environment.
We have this performance, not least because it in place a governance framework, aligned came as a result of the execution of our to the principles of the UK Corporate strategy, rather than simply as a result Governance Code, not simply because of an improving economic backdrop.
we must do so, but rather because it is the If 2009 was about cost and expense right thing to do.
In this regard, I draw your reduction and simplifying our structure, attention to pages 30 to 34 of this report then 2010 showed disciplined sales and and give you my commitment to uphold service delivery.
Pleasing as it was, this only the merits of the Code, as it applies to confirms that we have the opportunity to do Computacenter.
much more in growing share in our chosen I thank all of our employees for their efforts markets and improving our profitability in a and our customers for their business.
We have much to do in 2011, on our journey In 2011 we will continue to invest in our of continuous improvement, to achieve infrastructure, our talents and skills as well our potential.
as enhancing our customers experience.
We are on course to successfully implement a single Group-wide ERP system, the major benefits of which will not manifest themselves until 2012 and beyond.
Our efforts to industrialise our services are already showing margin improvement Greg Lock Adjusted profit before tax and EPS is stated prior to and better customer satisfaction and are Chairman amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
4 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
