8 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 DireCTOrS rePOrT: OVERVIEW ChairmanS STaTemenT OPeraTiOnal Delivery in Challenging marKeTS the difficult times after the near collapse of capital values between 2007 and 2009.
He has been an inspirational leader of the people in the business and a great ambassador for the wider industry through his involvement with the British Property Federation and the European Public Real Estate Association.
We wish him every success in his future endeavours.
A professional search was carried out for his successor, which included both internal and external candidates.
We were delighted to announce, just before the end of 2010, the appointment of David Sleath, presently our Finance Director, as the new Chief Executive.
David will take over from Ian following the AGM in April 2011 and I am confident that David will provide excellent leadership of your Company.
The process to identify Davids successor THE GROUP HAS MADE GOOD PROGRESS as Finance Director is underway.
In 2010 AGAInST A DIFFICULT ECOnOMIC In March, we announced the appointment of two new BACKDROP.
In 2011 WE WILL COnTInUE nonExecutive Directors, Doug Webb and Mark Robertshaw.
TO FOCUS On MAnAGInG DOWn Both bring a wealth of experience to the Board.
Doug is OUR VACAnCy THROUGH OUR LETTInG Chief Financial Officer of the London Stock Exchange Group plc, ACTIVITy AnD By WORKInG WITH ExISTInG a role he has held since June 2008.
Doug has taken over the CUSTOMERS TO MInIMISE THE LEVEL OF Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
Mark has been Chief SPACE RETURnED.
Executive Officer of The Morgan Crucible Company plc since August 2006.
Nigel Rich CBE, Chairman In April, we announced the appointment of Andy Gulliford After the many dramatic events of 2009, 2010 has been as Managing Director for Continental Europe.
Andy has a calmer year for the Company with our focus on operational considerable experience in the property sector having been delivery and realising the benefits of the Brixton acquisition with SEGRO for six years, latterly as Business Development completed in August 2009.
Andy is in the process of refocusing the Continental We completed our annual review of strategy with the Board European portfolio onto those areas where we consider we in november.
This broadly confirmed our current strategic can deliver the greatest value.
thinking, building on the actions we have taken over the last Following the year end, we have agreed with Ian Sutcliffe, eight years to create a focused panEuropean industrial REIT.
Managing Director of the UK business, that he will step Our strategy remains to maximise total shareholder returns down from the Board and leave the Company with effect by applying our business model to Buy Smart, Add Value from the AGM in April 2011.
I would like to thank Ian for and Sell Well.
At a portfolio level, this means generating his contribution to SEGRO and in particular his leadership good total property returns and, at a Company level, solid of the integration of Brixton and the acquisition of the APP income to underpin the dividends we pay to shareholders, portfolio.
We also wish him all the best for the future.
supported by an efficient capital structure.
Over and above this, we aim to deliver returns ahead of Overview Of PerfOrmanCe the broader market by astute timing of the property cycle Since the acquisition of Brixton in 2009 letting up our vacant in terms of when we acquire and dispose of assets coupled space has been the Groups primary focus.
We have made with active asset management on a property by property significant progress in the year reducing the Group vacancy basis.
Annually we review the potential of our estates in the rate from 13.5 per cent in December 2009, to 12.0 per cent UK and Continental Europe.
In 2010, this review has led at the end of 2010.
Substantial improvements have been to the sale of a number of properties where we could see made in the former Brixton portfolio where vacancy has relatively little upside potential and we will continue to fallen from 22.1 per cent at the end of 2009, to 18.6 per refine the portfolio in 2011 and beyond.
This result was built on a strong lettings performance coupled bOarD anD managemenT ChangeS with the active management of our existing customers to In October, we announced that after eight years with minimise the amount of space returned on a lease break SEGRO, Ian Coull, our Chief Executive, had decided to retire.
Ian has successfully managed the Company through a full or expiry.
Although space returned has been relatively cycle of ups and downs in the property market including high across this year, it was in line with our expectations.
com 9 We delivered net rental income of 282.1 million for the Q&a wiTh DaviD SleaTh period 2009: 269.4 million and a profit before tax of 197.2 million versus a loss of 248.1 million in 2009.
Finance Director for EPRA profit before tax from recurring rental profits was the past five years, David 127.3 million 2009: 104.3 million, reflecting the increase in the size of our portfolio following the Brixton acquisition Sleath talks about his time in 2009 and our lettings performance.
EPRA earnings per at SEGRO and his plans share from recurring rental profits were 17.1 pence down from the 18.3 pence reported in 2009 due to the dilutive for the future as SEGROs impact of the rights issue completed in 2009. new Chief Executive The Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.6 pence per share which, if approved, would give total dividends for 2010 of 14.3 pence 2009: 14.0 pence.
This will be paid where waS yOur early Career SPenT?
as a cash dividend half as a Property Income Distribution After obtaining my degree at Warwick University Business School, and half as an ordinary dividend.
There will be no scrip I began working for the accountancy firm, Arthur Andersen.
We continue to keep the payment of a scrip in corporate finance and became a partner and head of audit and alternative under review and will relook at this in 2011. assurance for the Midlands before becoming finance director at Our completed portfolio of properties recorded a valuation Wagon plc, the international automotive engineering group.
gain of 1.9 per cent in the year as property values recovered from the lows seen in 2009.
EPRA net asset value per share whaT aTTraCTeD yOu TO SegrO?
at 31 December 2010 was 376 pence, an increase of 2.5 I joined SEGRO in 2005, it was then known as Slough Estates.
The Company was highly regarded in the property industry but I knew it was in need of modernisation.
It was a great opportunity to work with OuTlOOK Ian Coull and his team and over the past five years, we have all been Globally, the developed world now appears to be slowly on a transformational journey to make SEGRO the company it is today.
emerging from recession with a number of important economies returning to slow growth.
Challenges remain whaT haS been yOur greaTeST Challenge wOrKing with inflationary pressures a possible test of the current aT SegrO?
This was in 2009 when, like other property companies in the UK, we faced a challenging time due to unprecedented turmoil in the markets.
In the UK, consumer confidence still remains relatively low.
We successfully renegotiated our bank covenants with over 20 banks This coupled with low levels of economic growth will make in January 2009, which was followed by our 500 million rights issue 2011 another challenging year.
The demand for space in in March and then the acquisition of Brixton three months later.
It was our industrial sector is likely to remain relatively constrained.
certainly a challenging time but one that has been hugely important Industrial rental values fell by 1.4 per cent in 2010 according in shaping how SEGRO looks today.
to the IPD UK Index and we expect them to remain relatively flat into 2011. hOw DOeS The PrOPerTy SeCTOr COmPare TO OTher Faltering markets and uncertainties over sovereign SeCTOrS yOu have wOrKeD in?
debt remain a feature across Continental Europe with an Unlike the automotive industry, the UK has a major property sector which increasing divergence in performance in different countries.
is a key element in the UK economy.
It is an exciting sector to work in We expect a gradual, albeit hesitant recovery to continue it is one of the most dynamic and transparent property industries in the across our core markets.
Poland and Germany in particular world, full of challenges and opportunities.
are showing signs of growth.
The Group has made good progress in 2010 against a whaT are yOur fuTure PlanS fOr SegrO?
On behalf of the Board, I would I have been fortunate to have been part of SEGROs transformation over like to thank all the employees of SEGRO for their hard work the past five years which means I am inheriting a much stronger business and commitment during what has been a challenging year.
in terms of portfolio, assets and culture.
My immediate priority will be to In 2011 we will continue to focus on managing down our build on that good platform in order to deliver operational performance vacancy through our letting activity and by working with for the benefit of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
That means existing customers to minimise the level of space returned.
continuing to drive down our vacancy rate, to generate returns from our nonincome producing assets, and continuing to look at opportunities Nigel Rich CBE, to improve our portfolio.
