Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3 Financial highlights & Group KPIs Overview: Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Our products and services Our business model: a virtuous cycle Our long term Business Partners Our international markets This is the first Annual Report we have published managerial and international experience and a since your Companys shares were oated on the detailed understanding of new technologies and how London Stock Exchange on 19 March 2010, with these are likely to impact your Companys business unconditional trading commencing on 24 March in the future.
2010, and it gives me great pleasure to be writing While there have been significant changes to the to you as your Companys Chairman.
Non-Executive team at CPP: importantly the Preparations for launching the IPO involved many, Executive team has remained in place throughout many hours of hard work by our professional advisers the transition period.
Eric Woolley and Shaun Parker and by the CPP team in York.
All involved in the IPO as CEO and CFO respectively have continued to process deserve our gratitude.
Although the IPO drive the growth of the business, notwithstanding process was extremely time consuming, the the huge distractions of the IPO.
Ably supported by management team continued to drive the growth of the CPP Executive Committee, the financial results the business both domestically and internationally.
for 2010 are a testament to their hard work and New products were launched and new Business commitment.
Partner Agreements were signed across the Group.
There have been significant changes in the regulatory The evolution of CPP from a private company to one and governance environment during the year, with whose shares are listed publicly has involved many the publication of the Walker Report on 26 November changes in the organisation.
I was delighted to 2009, significant revisions to the Combined Code accept the offer to be Chairman in advance of the now called the UK Corporate Governance Code and IPO.
I was formally appointed Chairman of the Group the publication of guidance from the Financial on 18 January 2010 in succession to our founder Services Authority on Corporate Governance and and controlling shareholder Hamish Ogston, who Remuneration.
Whilst CPP has complied with a continues as a Non-Executive Director and to own significant portion of these guidelines and rules, 57% of your Companys shares.
We are fortunate it has not in a number of cases and I want to that we continue to have access to Hamishs explain why.
The UK Corporate Governance Code experience and vision for the business.
Of the three recommends that companies such as CPP appoint a An excellent first other Non-Executive Directors prior to the otation, Senior Independent Director to act as an additional Colin Lloyd who had been a Director since 2001 interface with the Executive team, the outside period since the retired from the previous Board on 11 February 2010, shareholders and the Chairman.
This is an important and Tim Kelly who had been a Director since January role and with a very new group of Non-Executive IPO.
2003 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Directors we have decided to defer the appointment retired at the end of December 2010.
Finally, Peter of the Senior Independent Director until 2011 when Morgan who has been a Non-Executive Director we will have a better idea of the availability of Charles Gregson since January 2005 and Chairman of the Audit and the individual Non-Executive Directors and their Chairman Risk Committee, will retire at the end of March 2011. willingness to take on the role.
Additionally the Code We owe them all a huge debt of gratitude and wish recommends that companies such as CPP carry out them well for the future.
an annual Board effectiveness review, implemented either internally or externally.
Again with such a However, we are pleased to have replaced them new Board of Directors it has been decided to defer with the appointment of three new Non-Executive this exercise until next year to enable the Board to Directors, Patrick fide Smedt who worked for bed down.
Microsoft for 23 years and was Chairman of Microsoft Europe, Middle East and Africa for three Finally and most importantly, I want to thank all the years until he retired in 2006, Les Owen who was management and employees at CPP wherever in Chief Executive officer of AXA Sun Life and AXA Asia the world they may be for all their hard work and Pacic for 11 years, and Duncan McIntyre who has efforts in 2010. been the Chairman of Monitise since demerger in 2010 was a momentous year for CPP with its 2007.
Patrick was also appointed Chairman of the otation on the London Stock Exchange.
2011 Remuneration Committee on 24 August 2010 and promises to be a year of further growth.
Les will assume the Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk Committee on Peter Morgans retirement at the end of March 2011.
An appropriate induction Charles Gregson programme has been developed for all the new Chairman Non-Executive Directors to enable them to better understand your Companys business and to meet the management team.
The new Non-Executive Directors bring to your Company a wealth of senior 48051 Blacksun.
