ChAiRmAns stAtement i am pleased to report to shareholders that during the past year the Company has continued to progress and has further established its presence in the UK food sector.
there was a very strong increase in turnover and the Companys strategy to focus on food production was evidenced by the sale of the pet business and the acquisition of the pork processing activities of Bowes of norfolk CCF norfolk.
shareholders were notified of these transactions previously.
in addition there has again been significant investment in the Groups asset base to enable the organic growth of the business to be maintained.
Results operating margin along with lower financing costs, resulting sales for the year increased to 740 million, a rise of from the strong cash flow of the business and lower interest 22 per cent compared to the previous year.
organic growth rates, contributed to an increase in profit before taxation represented 11 per cent of the increase and CCF norfolk of 26 per cent to 43.8 million.
earnings per share rose contributed 11 per cent.
there were very strong increases 30 per cent to 69.7p per share from 53.7p previously.
the in certain product categories.
sales of cooked meats rose by strong cash flow resulted in a reduction in net debt from 13 per cent, sausages by 23 per cent and bacon by 61 per 66.6 million a year ago to 54.7 million at the end of cent which substantiates the decision to invest significantly march.
the borrowings of the business are conservatively in these categories in recent years.
there are plans for structured and interest was covered 21 times compared to investment in certain areas and, in addition, the coming year 10 times a year ago.
there is further information on trading will see completion of the investment project at the fresh and finance in the Reviews by the Chief executive and Finance pork facility in hull.
the provision of a high quality fixed Director which follow.
asset base to meet the organic growth aspirations of the Dividend business in the most efficient way possible is a key strategic the Board is proposing an increase in the final dividend of priority for the Board.
15.6 per cent to 17.0p per ordinary share.
Along with the the operating margin in the underlying business was interim dividend of 8.0p per ordinary share paid in January comparable to that achieved in the previous year which is 2010 this makes a total for the year of 25.0p per ordinary pleasing given the continued raw material cost inflation during share an increase of 15.2 per cent on last years 21.7p.
significant inflation was experienced final dividend, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on in the prior year, continued into this year and peaked in the 3 september 2010 to shareholders on the register at the summer.
Prices then came back and more recently there close of business on 2 July 2010. shares will go ex-dividend have been modest increases leaving prices slightly below the on 30 June 2010. shareholders will again have the option peak of last summer.
strong growth in sales and maintained to receive the dividend by way of scrip issue.
PAGe 3 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
