Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 13 Chairmans statement WE LEAD WE VALUE SUCCESS AND STRIVE TO BE THE BEST Delivering against our strategy the effects of the economic recession Alongside the delivery of a strong financial I was delighted to take over as Chairman on the consumer by increasing our performance, we have developed a on 1 January 2010 and want to thank my investment in our brands.
This additional corporate vision and set of core values predecessor, Simon Oliver, for all he did expenditure on marketing and promotions that give everyone working in and with to transform the business.
The Group has has contributed to lower profits in our our business a clear and aligned sense progressed enormously under Simons Spreads and Cheese divisions.
One of our core values is leadership over the last ten years, and he Overall, Group adjusted profit before we care which takes in our corporate leaves the business very well positioned taxation increased 5% to 83.5 million.
This programme for the future.
In his role as Honorary However, as expected, a higher tax charge has gathered pace over the past year Group President following his retirement led to reduced adjusted basic earnings per during which time we have made real from the Board, he helps us to continue to share of 44.5 pence compared to 45.0 progress on environmental improvements.
develop our key relationship with the 1,350 pence last year.
Reported Group profit Apart from Simon Olivers departure, dairy farmers who supply milk directly to before taxation fell 25% to 77.8 million there has been one other change to the Group, providing us with his extensive 2009: 103.2 million.
This reduction the Board this year.
On 1 August 2009 knowledge and experience of the dairy is principally due to the 50.4 million Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed as industry.
We can demonstrate strong exceptional gain on the sale of our stake in Non-executive Director and Chairman progress in this area over recent years and Yoplait Dairy Crest last year.
In this role he Simons involvement will help maintain Importantly, we have generated cash succeeded David Richardson who left the the momentum that we and Dairy Crest ahead of our forecasts and this has allowed Board on the same date.
We welcome Direct, our suppliers representative group, us to reduce our debt by more and sooner Andrew to the Board and thank David for now have.
than we anticipated when we made our his contribution to the business.
This has been a good year for Dairy last major acquisition, that of St Hubert Finally, the improvements we Crest in which we have delivered against in France in 2007.
As a result the Groups continue to make would not have been the strategy that we put in place eighteen financial position is much stronger than it possible without the hard work of all our months ago.
At that time, in an extremely was eighteen months ago.
We have a strong workforce, uncertain and challenging environment, our ability to invest for the future.
led by an experienced and well-motivated we set out the following priorities: to The strong financial performance of leadership team.
We greatly value the continue to develop market-leading the business and our confidence in its work they have done and I would like to positions in branded and added value future prospects has allowed the Board to thank all employees for their contribution markets: to focus on cost reduction and recommend a final dividend of 13.6 pence to the ongoing success of the Group.
efficiency improvements: and to drive per share, an increase of 5%.
As a result, Overall I am pleased by the strong cash generation in order to reduce our the total dividend for the financial year progress the Group has made over the debt.
Eighteen months on, it gives me 2009 10 will be 18.9 pence per share.
The past year, and am optimistic and excited great pleasure to be able to report that we Board intends to maintain its progressive about our future prospects.
In summary, have delivered against all these strategic dividend policy and will seek to maintain we are a broadly based dairy business objectives.
The strong performance dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
with a clear strategy, a strong vision, seen last year places the business in a We have also made good progress in robust values and good people.
We are fit good position, and fit for future growth addressing the pension scheme issues for the future.
opportunities, both organically and by that face us.
The Board has approved the acquisition if suitable opportunities arise.
payment of additional cash contributions Dairy Crest is a broadly based dairy of 20 million per annum to the pension business and the Groups performance fund.
We in 2009 10 demonstrates the benefits have also now closed the defined benefit of this.
Our Dairies division performed pension scheme to future accrual.
This particularly well last year.
This division has significantly reduces future risk to the Anthony Fry Chairman bounced back from a difficult 2008 09 business.
It is a credit to all concerned 17 May 2010 and is benefiting from a series of efficiency that the pension scheme changes were Excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired projects and higher cream prices.
In 2008 achieved with little adverse effect on the intangibles and the interest charge credit in respect we made a conscious decision to combat relationship with our employees.
of defined benefit pension schemes.
