daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 Chairmans statement the viscount rothermere Chairman business Weve emerged from an economic recession last year i spoke of my fathers decision in the UK, a world financial crisis, the most to diversify the groups assets and how, in the current context, that decision profound and continuing changes in the proved to have been inspired.
the diversity of our global b2b assets has media industry, and your company is in very given dmgt a stability that may have been missing from other uK consumer good health.
it is thanks to that support and stability that our uK consumer media assets have been able to consolidate their focus, innovate and bounce back, rebalancing the groups operating profit such that the strong reCovery for dmgt percentage derived from b2b was down debt is falling quickly, cash flows are from 71% to 66% this year.
strong, our operating profit grew by but i make a further point.
the content 17% in the year to 3rd october, and driven from our national newspaper earnings per share were a record.
brands, thanks to continued investment i cannot tell you what lies ahead, but at and attention to their editorial quality, dmgt we are steadily building value has attracted global audiences at an including in our national newspaper accelerating rate, particularly through business and the spirit among my mail online.
a focus of the group will be colleagues is one of determination to on deriving increasing revenues from meet any challenges, coupled with an these young and affluent viewers, many even stronger determination to grow of whom have no obvious affiliation sustainable revenues and profits.
with the uK and little or no exposure to the mail brand, but who are drawn to us because they like what they read, and who are joined daily by others from countries as diverse as the us and india.
that is why i believe we are adding increasing value to our b2C assets, even as we deal with the remaining legacy issues at our regional newspapers.
adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
2 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report people board it has always been a belief of mine that it is with regret that we will say goodbye media businesses are only as good as in march to peter Williams, our finance the people in them.
at dmgt we have director since 1991. peter has been with a remarkably strong team across the dmgt since 1982. he has combined all group at every level of the Company.
the best qualities that you look for in a i am glad to see martin morgan, our finance director: he is reliable, shrewd, Chief executive, executing the talent has good judgement and is both agenda to assess the qualities of the respected and admired throughout future management of all the the Company.
he will be missed greatly, businesses.
i am also pleased that we not only for his diligence, hard work have established a new investment and loyalty over so many years, but and finance Committee, and a new also as a friend and colleague whose leadership team that focuses on personal values embody all that is best longer-term strategy.
continued running the leadership i take this opportunity to welcome in course that was launched last year.
advance stephen daintith, who will join i am excited to see internal promotions us in January and take over from peter as well as new entrepreneurial talent after his retirement in march.
as a result, we have a comes to us with excellent credentials more cohesive and deeper level of at dow Jones and news international management talent than i think we and i believe he will add much to the have ever had.
talent is the cornerstone of dmgt: as looKing forWard martin so aptly says, superior business performance can only be achieved by i said at the end of our investor day superior people.
last year we displayed earlier this year that i had never felt exceptional business performance more excited to be Chairman of this within constrained economic conditions.
Company: this remains unchanged today.
there has never been a teChnology greater sense of team or a better in the last year we have seen stunning understanding of the values that drive technological advancements from us.
tough times have tested us and, augmented reality to 3d cinema, but during the last year, i have witnessed the ones most relevant to us are, of such determination and focus, such course, the tablets and e-readers.
the commitment and diligence that i have potential to revolutionise the way our been deeply gratified.
on your behalf consumer interacts with our brands is and mine, i thank all our colleagues at significant.
the physical interaction our businesses across the world who involved in their use could transform our have done so much to bring us advertising model and encourage through such change, and who look more inter-brand synergy than ever forward to the opportunities and before.
We are very interested in their challenges ahead.
potential and convinced that the innovative teams across the group, in rothermere both our b2b and b2C companies, will Chairman find entrepreneurial ways of exploiting this new technology.
metro was one of the first print publications to release an ipad application and the mail is soon to follow.
all of our b2b businesses are actively exploring similar launches.
all feel they offer more opportunities than challenges.
