SECTION 1 OVERVIEW Chairmans statement Dear fellow shareholders Welcome to our Annual report for the year ended 30 April 2010.
This has been another challenging year and I am pleased that the Group continues to demonstrate its resilience to difficult market conditions.
Our full year results were a significant improvement on the previous year.
Our established businesses performed well in the trading environment and our Developing businesses have improved their results on schedule.
I am also pleased that cash generation, which is always so important, was once again strong.
Dividend Our earnings growth and continued strong cash generation have enabled the Board to recommend a final dividend of 4.15 pence per share bringing the total dividend to 5.9 pence per share, an increase of 18 per cent on last year.
david newlands, Chairman outlook The new financial year has started in line with our expectations and is expected to remain challenging for the rest of the year.
The Group will remain focused on achieving its strategic plan: l further rolling out its specialist business model l improving profitability l maintaining its strong cash position l increasing investment in the businesses.
New Finance Director In January, Dominic Platt joined the Board as our new Finance Director, replacing Simon Herrick who left last December.
I would like to take this opportunity to formally welcome Dominic to the Group.
In a very short time he has demonstrated a clear understanding of the business and is making some excellent progress to our Finance function and we all very much look forward to working with him over the coming years.
Finally, as always I would like to thank all our staff across the Group.
It has been another difficult year and I have been most impressed with the level of dedication and hard work that has been evident throughout the businesses.
David Newlands Chairman 4 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 SECTION 1 OVERVIEW chOOsE thE pROduct that Is RIght fOR yOu from our specialist product ranges from price entry to premium brands and extended ranges available through our cross channel offer.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 5
