Section 2 The Business Chairmans Statement in store convinces me that our strategy to focus on own bought products makes huge sense.
It is a clear point of difference and having seen the margin and profit benefit of this strategy in 2010 we should soon see the sales benefit too.
Visiting stores has also reinforced my opinion that our space strategy of opening new stores and refurbishing older stores is correct: this is clearly demonstrated not only in the fantastic looking stores but also in the strong returns on capital achieved.
I was extremely impressed with Magasin du Nord, which I visited along with a group of analysts and shareholders, and I am sure the early success we Nigel Northridge have seen from the introduction of Debenhams Chairman products will continue.
Our multi-channel business, 21 October 2010 which brings together our stores and online activities, is extremely exciting and providing our customers with the exibility to shop in different ways is a pre-requisite for success in this digital age.
As well as the operational side of the business, I have been equally impressed by the Companys corporate governance, financial, risk management and internal controls processes.
Living up to our responsibilities, not least as an I am delighted to be making my first statement as employer, a retailer, a buyer of goods and a member So what have Chairman of Debenhams.
I was honoured to of the community, is one of the most important I found?
I have accept the role and have thoroughly enjoyed my issues we have to address.
You can read more about first six months.
Debenhams is a household name found a great our work in this area in the corporate responsibility operating in a fascinating and highly competitive review but I would like to highlight the efcacy of our business with sector.
As I said at the time of my appointment, supply chain practices, particularly in relation to many great people.
I look forward to playing my part in the continued ethical sourcing, and some of our leading edge success of this great British retailer which has employee development work in the area of NVQ demonstrated its strengths by delivering a resilient qualications.
I must also mention some of the performance over the past two years despite the groundbreaking campaigns we have been involved difficult market environment.
with this year and recommend shareholders look at pages 18 to 19 for more information.
Having joined the board in January and assumed the chair in April, I have spent much of the last At the heart of corporate governance is the board few months acquainting myself with Debenhams of directors.
I am confident that we have a good business and its people.
I believe that only by being range of skills and experiences on the board of truly familiar with the business can I, as Chairman, Debenhams and this view is confirmed by our know the right questions to ask and fully contribute annual board review process.
I would like to convey to strategy development.
I have obviously spent the boards thanks to Paul Pindar who retired from much time with the Companys senior management the board during 2010.
Particular thanks are due to team but I have also visited a broad range of our my predecessor John Lovering who served as stores around the country, met some of our Debenhams Chairman for six years.
I would also excellent people on the front line and spoken like to welcome Mark Rolfe who has joined us as a to some of our customers.
Our buying and non-executive director very recently and I am sure merchandising directors and their teams have will play an active and constructive role.
provided me with a crash course in design and fashion retailing to enable me to understand how It is far from just the board where Debenhams we buy as well as how we sell.
I have visited our benets from an extraordinary wealth of talent.
newly acquired business in Denmark and spent I have met many dedicated, committed people time with our people who are responsible for the throughout the Company sales advisors, store multi-channel operations.
I have met with head managers, buyers and merchandisers, head ofce ofce functions both in London and Taunton.
I was personnel who work extremely hard to make our also very keen to have the opportunity to meet with Company successful.
On behalf of the board I some of Debenhams shareholders in order to gain would like to thank them all for their valuable their insight on our Company.
contribution, especially through a year of structural change in a challenging market environment So what have I found?
I have found a great business where getting it right has involved so much hard with many great people.
Seeing our product ranges work from everyone.
4 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business High street favourite Principles returned exclusively to Debenhams stores during 2010 after we acquired the brand which had been a concession for many years.
Principles is now designed by Ben fide Lisi, one of Designers at Debenhams best known designers.
Principles by Ben fide Lisi is now available in all Debenhams stores.
Quotes 5 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
