Chairmans statement Financial highlights operating performance and return on assets, 04 Reported revenue for 2010 was 237.0 and was achieved after a significantly million 2009: 220.4 million, an increase increased spend on fixed assets of 26.9 of 7.5%.
On a constant currency basis, million 2009: 19.5 million.
revenue would have increased by 5.5% to 232.5 million.
Business During the year the group was able to Operating profit before exceptional items build on the solid progress made over increased by 39.4% to 38.2 million the previous years, which had been 2009: 27.4 million.
The operating very much focused on recovery.
New margin increased from 12.4% to 16.1%, products have been launched and there reflecting higher prices and a more has been investment in new capacity, efficient manufacturing cost base.
while we continue to improve Adverse weather in December 2010 throughput and yields.
There remains caused problems in our UK, US and an emphasis on the pricing of products Steve Hannam Chairman Australian plants, reducing operating and we continue the trend to higher profit by approximately 0.6 million margin sales.
through lower sales, higher costs and lost production.
Against a background of more stable raw material availability and energy pricing, all Movements in foreign exchange had a net the operating sites performed well, with a Once again I am pleased beneficial impact of 1.9 million on significant improvement in the US.
Our to report on a year of operating profit.
Of this, 1.2 million was Jilemnice plant in the Czech Republic also the translation impact of a stronger benefited from a full year of upgraded, progress in the business.
more efficient lines, which replaced our lines in Korenov.
In a period when the Profit before tax and exceptional items emphasis began to switch rose 44.4% to 36.3 million 2009: 25.1 The two key drivers for our business remain million.
Pre-tax profit including exceptional the growth of meat consumption in from recovery to growth, items was 55.2 million in 2010 against emerging markets, and the conversion of 26.9 million in 2009. sausage casings from gut to collagen in operating profit before both established and developing markets.
exceptional items increased During 2010, after consultation with our These combined gave an estimated growth employees and pensioners, certain in the global excluding China edible 39.4% compared to 2009. changes were agreed to the UK defined collagen market of approximately 4% in benefit pension scheme.
We experienced sales growth in Strong cash generation resulted in a reduction in the total liabilities most of our markets, with the exception of has enabled a further of the scheme, giving rise to a credit of China, where we took a conscious decision 18.9 million, which has been treated as to reduce sales to satisfy strong demand reduction in net debt to an exceptional item.
Excluding China, our sales 12.2 million even after liabilities meant that the year end deficit for volumes were up 11% compared to 2009. the group schemes was reduced to 13.4 investing 26.9 million in million 2009: 31.8 million and helps Demand for collagen casings is growing secure the future benefit for pension rapidly in China, and we are looking capital expenditure during scheme members.
carefully at strategic ways to approach the year.
As a result of this that market.
To bring focus to this task, Basic earnings per share before one of our most experienced directors is continuing strong financial exceptional items for 2010 was 17.4p, relocating to Hong Kong to dedicate time up 48.7% compared with 11.7p in 2009. and exploit opportunities in China and performance, the Board South East Asia.
is recommending a final Net interest cost fell during the year to 0.7 million 2009: 0.8 million, reflecting The demand for our product is such dividend of 5.0 pence, lower average debt during 2010. that, of the capital expenditure in the year of 26.9m, 14 million related to bringing the full year Net finance expense on pension assets increased capacity.
New lines have been dividend to 7.0 pence per and liabilities amounted to 1.2 million brought on stream in the Czech compared with 1.4 million in 2009.
Republic and Australia, and existing lines share, a 40% increase.
in Scotland are being upgraded.
To Net debt reduced to 12.2 million 2009: cope with demand, it is expected that 15.6 million.
This reduction in net debt capital expenditure will increase to reflects the continued improvement in approximately 45 million in 2011, Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION each other.
This has included the Outlook with further investment across all our 05 progressing of our new ERP system, Operating within a growing market with manufacturing sites.
The full benefit of the development of best manufacturing new products and increasing capacity, this investment is expected to be seen techniques, health and safety, marketing Devro can look forward to further growth in 2012 and 2013.
Many of the projects involve upgrading or replacing existing approaches, new developments and and efficiency improvements in all its older lines, an approach which not only increasingly the transfer of technology operations.
Longer term, the strength of increases capacity but enhances return across the group.
These initiatives will our balance sheet gives us confidence on capital.
become more common as we strive to that we will be able to take advantage of ensure that Devro is prepared for growth opportunities as they arise.
The trend to replace gut casings with continued success on the world stage.
collagen has been helped by the launch of our Select range of products.
These Dividend have been specifically developed to The Board is proposing a final dividend of replicate the characteristics of gut whilst 5.0 pence per share 2009: 3.575 pence, providing efficiencies for the sausage bringing the total for the year to 7.0 pence producers.
Different products in the per share 2009: 5.0 pence.
The dividend range are now being produced on will be paid on 6 May 2011 to those existing equipment in Scotland and the shareholders on the register on 1 April Steve Hannam Chairman Czech Republic.
Last year was the first increase in conversion has continued to take place dividend payment in four years, and the in Latin America, Japan and Russia, recommended dividend this year reflects whilst Select has achieved satisfactory the improvements in performance and sales in Europe.
financial strength of the group.
The Board retains its policy of reviewing the amount Safety distributed annually with the intent of It is disappointing that, given the moving dividends in line with underlying emphasis on safety, the number of Lost earnings, whilst taking into account the Working Day Injuries increased to 13 in future prospects and cash requirements of 2010 2009: 7, though this is the second the business.
best performance of the last 10 years.
The total number of injuries requiring Board changes medical treatment was the same as in the In December 2010 Peter Williams previous year.
announced he would be retiring from the Board in early 2011.
Peter has been Monitored by the Health and Safety Finance Director since joining Devro in Committee, safety has continued to May 2008 and has contributed to the have a high profile across the group.
business during a period of significant A range of training programmes are in improvement in financial strength and place and a number of specific actions performance.
We all wish him a long and have been taken to improve working happy retirement.
Both internal and external audits have been used to On 17 January 2011 Simon Webb joined identify potential issues and improve our the Board as Finance Director Designate.
approach to health and safety.
We Following a transition period to allow continue to work towards our target of thorough familiarisation and a professional Zero safety incidents.
hand-over of responsibilities, he will become Group Finance Director on 7 April Employees 2011 when Peter retires.
Simon, a A further successful year is due in great chartered accountant, brings with him part to the commitment shown by Devro considerable experience of managing a employees.
The improved performance in finance function within international both operations and the markets in which businesses.
His senior finance positions we sell reflects this commitment and the have included Threadneedle, BAT plc, Board would like to thank all the members Paxar plc, Enodis plc, and most recently of the Devro team for their efforts in 2010. fide La Rue plc where he was Group As mentioned last year, the business is Finance Director.
becoming more global and there is increasing need for a unified approach to the market.
In the last year there has been increased interaction between our locations to ensure that we learn from Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
