Diageo Annual Report 2010 10 Chairmans statement Strategic thinking and action O ur business has been managed with great discipline, provided strength generating greater effi ciencies This has been a challenging year, but one in which and strong performance.
Diageo has performed with considerable success.
Our business has faced continued volatility and highly unpredictable economic conditions in many markets.
In these circumstances our outstanding collection of brands and our highly talented people have enabled the business to demonstrate great resilience.
In some parts of the world we have seen noticeable improvement in trading conditions, but in almost all recovery has been inconsistent in pace, scale and durability.
Against this background The Board has great confi dence in the future of it is clear that our success owed a great deal to the our business.
That is demonstrated by our decision decisive action taken early by our management to recommend an increase in the fi final dividend, team in the spring of 2009.
At that point we by our strong results and in particular by our made substantial changes to our business.
All are measures centred on major reductions to our cost base of a business in robust good health.
and signifi cant restructuring of our organisation.
We must say a farewell to Nick Rose, who has As I noted in last years report, many of the decisions been Diageos chief fi financial offi cer for the majority we took were, justifi ably, a cause of concern for of the companys existence.
He retires after more our employees and the communities in which than a decade of great achievement and we wish we operate.
It is greatly to the credit of both that him very well in all that he does in the future.
the changes, even those which were diffi cult, We also off er a very warm welcome to our new have been implemented eff ectively and with CFO, Deirdre Mahlan.
She has a great track record great compassion.
within Diageo and a platform from which to Over the course of this year, our business continue to build.
has been managed with great discipline and has focused on capturing the opportunities as they arose while increasing the level of transparency and governance we apply to our everyday Dr Franz B Humer, activities.
The result has been greater effi ciencies Chairman and strong performance.
Much time has also been spent on bringing the companys values to life, not just within Diageo, but also in the way we conduct ourselves with our broad network of stakeholders.
Now more than ever we have a responsibility to lead within our industry.
As part of that responsibility, we continue to invest in building our capabilities and developing our people to make sure we are best placed to take advantage of recovery in the global economy.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Chairmans statement 11 Global volume share of premium spirits 29% Diageo 17% Pernod Ricard 35% Other 4% Fortune Brands 6% BrownForman 9% Bacardi Source: Impact Databank Top 100 Premium Spirits February 2010 Total cash returned to shareholders since merger in 1998 10,288m Dividends 1 1, 826m Share buyback Dow Jones corporate sustainability assessment % 80 70 60 50 40 04 05 06 07 08 09 Industry best Diageo Industry average September 2009 Diageo Annual Report 2010 12 Chief executives review 2010 net sales by category 3% 27% 3% Other Scotch Tequila 3% Gin 5% Liqueur 6% Wine 6% Rum 22% Beer 6% Whiskey 8% Ready to drink 11% Vodka Net sales breakdown 32% Developing markets 68% Developed markets Category performance % 8 6 Developing markets include Africa, 555 5 Asia excluding Korea and Japan, 4 Eastern Europe, Latin America and 3 3 the Caribbean, Middle East and 2 22 North Africa, Russia.
1 5 3 Spirits Beer Wine Ready Total to drink Volume movement Organic net sales growth Reported net sales growth Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Chief executives review 13 We have enhanced our routes to market, for example in Vietnam, India, South Africa and China.
A greater focus on building industry leading customer marketing skills has borne real benefi ts in fi scal 2010.
Working in partnership with our key global customers in the off trade to infl uence shopper behaviour at the point of purchase Read more about Paul Walsh and has seen growth in those outlets signifi cantly our other directors ahead of historical performance.
We win, and p77-79 our customers win, as a consequence.
We prioritised cash generation in the year, and the extraordinary 2 billion of free cash we have reported is a testament to an outstanding eff ort by the whole business to deliver in this area.
All of these measures, and more, are examples We have demonstrated great of how our executive committee has actively agility in the year managed the business in fi scal 2010, leveraging This past year saw businesses like Diageo continue Diageos inherent assets global diversity, an to face challenging operating circumstances.
outstanding collection of brands, highly eff ective Markets, categories, price points and brands have routes to market, and our fi financial strength been aff ected, but in diff erent ways and to diff ering to drive performance, and build our company.
This variability, and the unpredictability it But perhaps the key driver of all is the quality creates, characterised the year.
My colleagues have worked Our response to those factors and conditions enormously hard in what was a tough, though has been to demonstrate outstanding agility as a satisfying year.
I want to recognise that enormous business, agility which has allowed us to mitigate collective eff ort, and to say how fortunate I feel to risk and maximise opportunity, and which has work with such talented and dedicated people.
delivered a good fi financial performance, particularly One of those people, our CFO Nick Rose, is in the second half.
Agility will continue to be vital retiring this year, and it would be remiss of me not in fi scal 2011. to acknowledge the huge contribution he has Our overarching aim has been to make made to the success of Diageo, not only in fi scal the business stronger in spite of the prevailing 2010, but over the past decade and more.
been a great colleague and friend, and I wish Nick, We have increased marketing behind and his family to whom he is devoted, every proven growth drivers in categories which have happiness for the future.
momentum, and we have invested in markets and behind growing brands in categories where we are performing well.
But, beyond that, we have also been prepared to reduce investment Paul S Walsh, in those markets where growth opportunities Chief executive are currently elusive.
This targeted approach means we have focused our increased marketing spend exactly where it should be.
Our innovation pipeline is full, allowing us to access the opportunities in changing consumer and customer trends, wherever they occur, and one of the most pleasing aspects of the past year has been the speed with which we have moved to develop and launch new products.
This is proving to be a real competitive advantage.
