04 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chairmans statement Underlying earnings per share have increased 15 per cent.
Peter Hindley, Chairman Results The Board I am pleased to report that Dignity has continued its track There were no changes to the Board in the year and I am record of strong profit growth.
pleased that Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter have both agreed to remain Non-Executive Directors until the Underlying operating profits have increased by 8 per cent end of 2012 to serve alongside James Newman and Bill to 61.0 million 2009: 56.4 million.
I have also signed a new contract for a further per share have increased 15 per cent to 46.4 pence per three year period.
I will therefore, remain Chairman until Ordinary Share 2009: 40.5 pence per Ordinary Share.
Dividends I would like to thank all my fellow Directors for their support The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.88 pence per during another successful year.
Ordinary Share to be paid on 24 June 2011 to members on the register at close of business on 27 May 2011.
This Our people dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders at the This business continues to set client service excellence Annual General Meeting on 9 June 2011.
This final dividend as a key objective.
Once again, 98 per cent of families represents a 10 per cent increase on the equivalent dividend would recommend our services and 99 per cent said we paid in the previous year.
either met or exceeded their expectations.
This is due to the continued dedication of our staff across the entire business This will be the only dividend paid in respect of profits and I thank them for the roles they have each played during generated in 2010, as an interim dividend was not paid the year.
separately, but was instead included within the 1 Return of Value per Ordinary Share paid in October 2010.
I am delighted that as a Group, we continue to invest heavily to support our staff by keeping open our defined benefit New Secured Notes and Return of Value pension scheme, through training, a generous staff sick pay In the second half of the year, the Group issued further scheme, awards for long service and grants for personal Secured Notes, raising gross proceeds of 87.1 million.
development via the Welfare Trust.
In return, we have loyal The majority of the proceeds were returned to shareholders.
staff, with more than half having worked for the Group for This demonstrates the Groups continued ability to leverage over five years, who are all dedicated to helping our clients its stable cash flows for the benefit of its shareholders by every step of the way.
replacing relatively expensive equity with cheaper debt that also benefits from a tax deduction.
Outlook for 2011 The year has started well in all three divisions of our business and the Board remains confident in the Groups prospects.
Serving local communities for generations 1840 1848 1855 1857 1857 1876 1880 1884 Francis Chappell J Rymer Funeral Ginns & Gutteridge, Lawrence Funeral E Finch & Sons, Beckenham J H Kenyon, London Frederick W Paine, & Sons, London Service, York Leicestershire Service, Halifax Aldershot Cemetery, Kent James H Kenyon London Francis Chappell In 1848, James Ginns Funeral In 1857, John In 1857, Emmanuel Beckenham opened his first Charles Paine opened & Sons, London have Rymer founded the Directors was listed Lawrence established Finch established Cemetery, the oldest funeral location on his first funeral been part of the family business in in a local trade his family business, E Finch & Sons on cemetery operated Edgware Road in location in Station southeast London premises very close directory in 1855.
J Lawrence & Sons, the High Street of by Dignity, opened 1880.
The business Road, New Malden, community since to York Minster.
By In the early 20th in Halifax, Yorkshire.
It includes expanded to include in 1884.
Ten years 1840, when the 1925, Jack Rymer, century there were They produced the 20th century the resting place of five branches in later the business founder, John then aged 15, was several competing furniture but the business built cricketing legend northwest London was passed on to his Chappell, opened managing the funeral businesses occasionally made its reputation by W G Grace.
and became one of eldest son, Frederick the first branch on business after the bearing this name coffins for local conducting military the most well-known W Paine, who opened Deptford High Street.
all run by different families.
By 1945, funerals and names in the two further funeral J Rymer Funeral members of the the Lawrence family pioneering many new profession, conducting locations over the Service joined the Ginns family, until were arranging initiatives, including funerals for the Royal next few years.
Dignity network in they amalgamated enough funerals the first motorised Family, politicians 1994 and today is with another local to open a chapel hearse in the area.
and other prominent managed by the sixth funeral director and of rest.
generation of the Ginns & Gutteridge Rymer family.
