Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Directors Report: Business Overview Chairmans Statement Our Renewal and Transformation plan is improving the Group for our customers, our colleagues and our shareholders.
John Allan Chairman I was delighted to be appointed your new Chairman in I would like to thank our management team for their efforts September 2009 and am pleased to report an excellent year and the contribution they have made to our progress during the of progress.
The changes we are making to the business make year.
They have the strategy, the customer focus and resolution shopping at our stores a much simpler and more enjoyable to ensure continued long term progress in the years ahead.
We have also made significant improvements Of course, their efforts would have been in vain were it not to our service offering before, during and after the point of for our 39,000 colleagues in the Group who are responsible purchase.
These changes will enable us to offer a truly market for, above all, our interaction with customers.
I would like to leading value, choice and service proposition for our customers.
congratulate every colleague for the progress they have made The economic environment in all our markets has been and thank them for their hard work.
However, it is encouraging to We are seeking shareholder approval to amend the Groups see all the work under the Renewal and Transformation plan registered name to Dixons Retail plc in order to harness the starting to improve the performance of the business and our strength of the Dixons name as the Group delivers on the results for the year, in particular in the second half.
The operations Renewal and Transformation plan and improves profitability.
in the UK and Nordics delivered a good trading result with our The Dixons name resonates strongly with suppliers, the market customers rewarding us with greater market share and improved and colleagues in a way that DSG international has not been profitability.
The turnaround of the business in Italy is making able to without significant investment in the brand.
Further good progress, and our operations in Greece, Spain, Turkey, information on this proposal is set out in the accompanying Central Europe and Dixons Travel performed well.
notice of annual general meeting.
We have made great strides in our online offer with over This year, the Group selected two national charities to support, 1.4 billion of sales now transacted over the internet, through Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, which help to provide our pure play internet operations of PIXmania and Dixons.
co. uk access to technology for disadvantaged or disabled children.
as well as through our multi-channel internet operations.
Our I am very proud of our colleagues, who have organised so many broad offering gives customers greater choice as to how they fundraising activities, including supporting Blue Peters Send a shop with us, either in-store, online or a combination of both, Smile campaign as well as raising money for the DEC Haiti appeal.
with the convenience of reserve&collect.
I would like to thank my predecessor Sir John Collins for his I would like to thank our shareholders for their support in service and contribution to the Group.
Our thanks also go to strengthening our capital base through the Placing and Rights Count Emmanuel dAndr, who retired from the Board at last Issue in April 2009.
This provided the Group with the financial years AGM, and John Whybrow, who retired from the Board resources to allow further investment in the Renewal and in March this year.
I would like to thank them both for their Transformation plan and is enabling the Group to emerge from significant contribution as non-executive directors.
We wish the recession in a much stronger position.
Since then we have them well.
continued to improve the strength of the balance sheet through an intense focus on cash generation and stock management.
I would like to welcome Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen and Tim How In May this year we announced that we had successfully as non-executive directors.
Both Utho and Tim bring significant renegotiated our bank facilities.
management experience to the Group with proven track records in the retail sector.
Short term progress will inevitably be impacted to some degree by the uncertain UK and Continental European economic and political prospects.
However, through the Renewal and Transformation plan we should have the momentum to remain positive as we improve the business for customers and shareholders.
We have an extremely strong and focused management team John Allan ably led by a very talented and determined Chief Executive.
Chairman DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 15
