Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 12 BUSINESS REVIEW I am delighted to report that Domino has again achieved record results in terms of sales, profit and cash generation.
PETER BYROM C H A I R M A N S STATEMENT Sales reached 300 million for the first time.
The launch of Operating profit before amortisation exceeded new products enhances further Dominos 54 million and earnings per share amounted competitive position.
We look forward to the to 34.25 pence.
Operating cash generation future with confidence.
was, again, very strong at 47.1 million.
It is proposed to increase the total dividend for the OUTLOOK year by 20 per cent to 15.62 pence per share.
2010 was another successful year for the This will be the 25th consecutive increase in Group.
Whilst economic concerns do remain in the annual dividend since the Company was Europe, our strength in the fastest growing first listed on the Stock Exchange in 1985. regions of the world, China, India, South America and Eastern Europe, gives us These results were achieved through maintaining confidence as we enter 2011. customer service at the uncompromisingly high level for which we are known and a continuous The results for 2010 were assisted by recovery focus on operational efficiency.
in global markets after the difficulties of 2009.
However, we have not relied on recovery During the year we made a record investment alone.
We have deployed our resources during of 15.6 million in Research and Development, recession to ensure we emerged as a stronger, equivalent to over 5 per cent of sales, and more effective business.
immediately following the end of the year we launched the first phase of a new range The combination of an exciting range of new of products.
We expect to make further products and additional investment in selling launches in 2011.
New products encompass and marketing, together with a strong balance continuous ink jet, laser coding, thermal sheet, gives us confidence in the future.
transfer overprinting, and print and apply labelling technologies.
These results are a tribute to the professionalism, dedicated endeavour and support of our 2,150 employees worldwide and I take this opportunity to thank them for what PETER BYROM has been achieved.
Chairman 24 January 2011 The Group is in a strong position financially.
New investments have been made to extend the Groups sales capacity, focused on the
