Chairmans statement Chairmans statement For 25 years weve been delivering success Highlights System sales 2009: 16.0% 19.3% 1 Profit before tax 2009: 27.8% 27.3% Dividend per share 2009: 31.4% 31.6% 1 Pre exceptional items Stephen Hemsley Non-Executive Chairman 4 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie I am delighted, having celebrated our silver anniversary, to be reporting yet another set of excellent figures.
The business continues to go from strength to strength with profit before tax and exceptional items rising by 27.3% to 38.0m 2009: 29.9m, system sales growth of 19.3% to 485.3m 2009: 406.9m and we are well placed for further strong growth in the coming year.
In 2010, Dominos Pizza in the UK and Republic of Ireland sold, on average, over one million pizzas each week.
Our strong underlying operational gearing is a key feature of our I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow Non-Executive business model and this is reflected in our operating margins, which Directors for the invaluable advice and support they provide to have seen uninterrupted growth over the last decade from 8.5% the executive team.
As the business grows, we are committed to to 20.2% today.
Having substantially invested in the infrastructure, developing both our Board and executive governance structures in we expect this key metric to continue to rise strongly over the order to maintain high standards of conduct, good governance and coming years.
transparency in the belief that good governance reduces risk and adds value.
This is highlighted in the corporate governance and The highlight of the year was the opening of our new, state of the art remuneration sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
commissary in West Ashland, Milton Keynes.
Now fully operational, this provides the foundations for us to continue our store roll out We take our responsibilities to the communities and environments programme for many years to come.
Also during the year, we in which we operate very seriously and were delighted to be the exceeded our store opening target, set foot in the Isle of Man and first company to sign up to the Pennies Foundation an initiative the Isle of Wight and maintained our lead at the cutting edge of that allows online customers to round their orders up to the technology with our new iPhone app.
This simple, yet effective, charitable initiative obviously appealed to our very generous customers as over In addition, the executive directors have set a new midterm strategic 100,000 people donated, raising over 25,000, in the first vision, Vision 2015, for the next five years.
We conducted a similar eight weeks of operation alone.
exercise back in 2005 and it was rewarding, in 2010, to see the challenging targets met and exceeded.
While some of the targets for As ever, I have been delighted to see our shareholders benefit the new vision are obviously commercially sensitive, I am confident from our success as we have continued to return cash in the form that we have the right team in place to take the business on to these of dividends and share buybacks.
The total amount returned to new heights.
shareholders during the year was 18.3m 2009: 18.1m.
The Company acquired and subsequently cancelled 1.2m shares at a It was a pleasure in 2010 to celebrate not just 25 years in the UK, cost of 4.7m and a further 13.6m was paid out in dividends.
but also 50 years of Dominos worldwide.
At the global Dominos awards in Las Vegas in July, the UK and Republic of Ireland stole the Finally, it remains for me to thank our franchisees, employees and the show taking the vast majority of sales awards and other titles.
We teams in our stores for their continued hard work and dedication.
feel very proud to be recognised as the leading territory in the They are an inspiration and a pleasure to work with and I know that Dominos system and we have no intention of giving up our position.
with the passion we all have for this business we are in great shape to implement our new strategic plans and continue to deliver further During the year, we have had some changes at Board level.
We strong growth for many years to come.
were sorry to say goodbye to Dianne Thompson, who retired at the 2010 AGM after three years of service to the Board, but were Stephen Hemsley delighted to welcome Lance Batchelor as a new Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman Director.
Lance has proved to be a great addition to the Board and, 1 5 February 2011 as announced on 21 January 2011, Lance will be moving to an executive role on 27 June 2011 when he becomes Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
This paves the way for an orderly handover when the time is right for Chris Moore to hang up his apron although this will not happen until 2012 at the earliest.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5
