Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 02 BuSINESS REvIEw chairmans introDUction I believe we have achieved I am very pleased to report that, despite witnessing some of the weakest spreads between the price of power and the cost of generation since the significant progress during electricity industry was privatised in 1990, Drax performed well in 2010.
2010 throughout the business Our good performance was primarily due to a combination of record and my sincere thanks go breaking operational plant performance and starting the year with to all Group staff for their strong forward sales.
we report earnings EBITDA for 2010 of 391 million 2009: 355 million, slightly ahead of market expectations, and an operating profit of 278 million 2009: 173 million.
In line with our dividend policy, the Board proposes a final dividend in respect of 2010 of 17.9 pence per share, equivalent to 65 million.
This would give a total dividend for the year of 32.0 pence per share 2009: 13.7 pence per share.
The outlook, however, is challenging as we face pressure on coal generation margins due to todays commodity market conditions.
Reducing our emissions of carbon dioxide remains central to our strategy.
During the year we continued to make progress on both improving the overall efficiency of our plant and increasing our capability to burn renewable biomass fuel.
In 2010, we delivered a reduction in carbon intensity per unit of electricity generated of 7.1% compared to 2007, when we first started our carbon abatement work.
we remain determined to make further progress in this area.
Through eight years experience of burning biomass we have built the technical and commercial expertise to greatly increase our electricity generation from biomass.
However, we will only do so if the economics of such generation is attractive for our shareholders: this is not the case under the current regulatory regime for renewables.
Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 03 The Government is actively reviewing the structure and levels of support for all renewable generation technologies.
we welcome these reviews and are engaging fully with the Government to advance the case for increasing the amount of renewable electricity generated from biomass.
Generating renewable electricity from sustainable biomass is relatively low cost, and can be both flexible and reliable.
with the right regulatory support it has the potential to make a very significant contribution to the uKs commitment to delivering 15% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020.
The composition of the Board underwent some changes during the year.
I was delighted to welcome Tony Thorne and Tim Cobbold to the Board as non-executive directors.
Both Tony and Tim bring with them a wealth of experience in commercial and industrial matters which will be of great benefit to the Board.
I was, however, sorry to see Jamie Dundas step down from the Board at last years Annual General Meeting AGM and I will be equally sorry to see Mike Grasby leave the Board at the conclusion of the 2011 AGM.
My thanks go to them both for their time, commitment and considerable contribution to the Group since joining the Board.
I believe we have achieved significant progress during 2010 throughout the business and my sincere thanks go to all Group staff for their tireless dedication.
without their hard work and commitment none of these achievements would have been possible.
