B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S R RE EV VIIE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S N NO OT TIIC CE E O OF F M ME EE ET TIIN NG G Chairmans Statement responsibility and reports on the Audit and Bob Beeston, who has served as a non-Executive Remuneration Committees.
The Board has Director with great distinction since December continued to maintain a strong focus on identifying 2000, will step down from the Board at the end and managing risks, ensuring the Groups of 2010, once the new Directors have their feet financial position remains strong and on making firmly under the table.
Bob has been an outstanding sure that it is well placed, financially and contributor to our affairs and I would like to thank operationally, to benefit from recovery in our him for his ceaseless challenge and support.
An increased focus has been placed on Chris Bunker has already succeeded Bob as the business strategy and the Groups financial Senior Independent Director.
The composition of the Group is being On behalf of the Board, I thank all our colleagues considered by the Group Chief Executive as part across the world for their ongoing efforts and of his review.
commitment, particularly through these tough Parts of our business operate in attractive times.
Economic activity has improved, but the markets with long-term growth and attractive pace of recovery remains uncertain.
The challenge for the Group by management to date have positioned us well to is to take full advantage of the opportunities open take advantage of improving economic conditions The Group delivered a to it and to deliver strong growth in shareholder and I am confident that further progress will be value.
The Board will support the Group Chief made in the coming year.
robust performance in Executive as he develops his plans for this in the coming months.
2009 10 and under the As we announced in November 2009, Tony leadership of its new Thorne retired from the Board on 4 may 2010 Group Chief Executive and miles Roberts took over the role of Group Chief Executive.
is well placed to On behalf of the Board and his colleagues, PETER JOHNSON resume growth.
I would like to thank Tony for his strong Chairman leadership of the Group over the last nine years.
In last years annual report I stated that the work The Group that he leaves behind is far better done to refocus the business over recent years placed and balanced than the one he joined, would make it more resilient.
Our results for with strengthened potential.
The growth in the the year are testament to that.
The fast-moving packaging and recycling businesses and the consumer goods sector, which is our major development of leading positions in retail-ready market for retail-ready packaging, weathered the and high quality design packaging have created downturn better than other sectors.
The focus on a formidable position in UK packaging.
innovation in both products and services, and our expertise in recycling and solving customers miles Roberts joins us from mcBride plc where he packaging problems allowed us to make led a programme to deliver significant growth and significant progress.
In addition to this record, he brings considerable international experience as Adjusted operating profit of 94.0 million well as a thorough understanding of manufacturing matched the previous year and adjusted and DS Smiths packaging markets.
earnings per share advanced 2.4% to 12.9 pence 2008 09: 12.6 pence.
I am also pleased to confirm that Gareth Davis joined our Board as a non-Executive Director on The Board has decided to recommend a final 1 June 2010.
Gareth has recently stepped down dividend for 2009 10 of 3.1 pence per share from the role of Chief Executive of Imperial 2008 09: 1.8 pence which, together with the Tobacco PLC, a Group which he led to great interim dividend of 1.5 pence, gives a total success following the demerger of the company dividend for the year of 4.6 pence 2008 09: from hanson Plc in 1996. he has served as a 4.4 pence.
The Board recognises the importance non-Executive Director since 2003 and Senior of dividends to shareholders and remains Independent Director since 2004 of Wolseley plc.
committed to the payment of dividends that reflect he brings enormous relevant experience to our the sustainable earnings and cash generation of affairs.
he will take over as Chairman of the the Group over the cycle.
Future dividend policy Remuneration Committee from July 2010. is under review as part of the Group Chief Executives review of strategy.
Jonathan Nicholls joined the Board in December 2009 and his experience as Finance Director of The financial and operational performance of two FTSE 100 companies, hanson Plc and Old the Group during the year is set out fully in the mutual Plc, has been of great value.
he will take following reports, together with an assessment over as Chairman of the Audit Committee from of the risks facing the Group, its performance on July 2010. environmental and other matters of corporate DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 15
