Dunelm Group plc 4 Annual report and accounts 2010 Business review Chairmans statement Geoff Cooper Chairman In my interim report to shareholders, I This change is a reflection of the Boards Our key strengths commented on the excellent performance desire to enhance and expand the delivered by Dunelm over the 26 weeks to executive management of the Group as it UKs largest specialist 2 January 2010.
I am delighted to say that embarks on the next important phase of homewares retailer the business has remained very strong in its development.
the second half and we have delivered not Portfolio of established only impressive sales growth for the full The change represents the culmination of out-of-town superstores, financial year, but also an outstanding a detailed review by the Board, over many average sales area 43.5% increase in profit before tax.
months, of the executive management resources required to maintain the pace of 29,000 sq.
The business has continued to generate development through the next phase of Simply Value for Money very strong cash flows.
As a result, we our exciting growth plan.
This review was were able to return 43.2m of surplus instigated at Wills request and has proposition: capital to shareholders in the course of involved a thorough and formal Good quality products the year in addition to our normal recruitment process, including Great prices dividends whilst continuing to invest in benchmarking of external candidates by Industry leading choice the business to support our future an executive search firm.
The proposed final dividend of 5.0p 2009: 4.0p brings the full year In his new role as Executive Deputy Friendly service dividend to 8.0p 2009: 6.0p an Chairman, he will be able to dedicate all On-line store featuring 14,000 increase of 33%.
his time and energy to aspects of the business which he is passionate about and products Looking ahead, we remain cautious about where he has a unique level of insight and Owner of Dorma brand the outlook for UK consumer spending experience.
At the same time, we are and in turn the impact on the homewares bringing increased strength in depth to Robust, scalable infrastructure market.
However, we are very confident the executive management team through that Dunelm will continue to grow its the appointment of a new Chief Executive.
Experienced management share and become an even more team, entrepreneurial culture significant player over the coming period.
Nick will be a worthy successor to Will.
As well as being a hugely experienced retailer Highly cash generative I am excited about forthcoming changes he already has a good understanding of in Board composition.
Dunelms business and, most importantly, Strong balance sheet of our business philosophy and values.
He After almost 15 years as Dunelms Chief will maintain the drive and sense of Executive, Will Adderley has decided to purpose which Dunelm has been used to relinquish that role from February 2011, under Wills leadership.
Through his time when he will assume the new role of as a Non-Executive Director, he has built Executive Deputy Chairman, a full-time strong relationships with both Will and Board position.
In this new role, he will be David Stead, our Finance Director, and we able to focus on specific aspects of the are absolutely confident that the new Group where he has unique expertise and team will combine to take Dunelm experience, under the direction of the forward to further success.
The whole process typifies the foresight Nick Wharton will assume the role of Chief and objectivity shown both by Will, and by Executive Designate with effect from 1 Bill and Jean Adderley before him, in December 2010, and will take over as considering the long-term interests of Chief Executive after the announcement Dunelm and all its shareholders.
of the Groups interim results in February 2011.
Nick has been a Non-Executive Geoff Cooper Director of Dunelm since August 2009.
Chairman 16 September 2010 Dunelm Group plc 5 Annual report and accounts 2010 Priority 1 Open more superstores Superstores as at 4 July 2009 Superstores opened New superstores since 4 July 2009 Since 4 July 2009 we have opened 12 new superstores adding almost 400,000 square feet of selling space
