02 Chairmans Statement Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 This progress is encouraging when taken in the context of Chairmans Statement the economic and political environment in the UK as well as certain factors that have impacted the key markets in which I am pleased to report another the Group operates.
successful year for Eaga in which 1 Revenues grew by 3.1% to 762.2m 2009: 738.9m and EBITA we have delivered growth and 1 increased by 10.1% to 52.0m 2009: 47.2m.
These results are stated after gained significant momentum in the absorbing approximately 1.6m of costs associated with the delivery of our strategic objectives, development of our solar PV project.
Excluding these costs, EBITA growth was 13.5% and PBTA growth was 11.0%.
particularly the development 2 of key opportunities in domestic Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased 7.4% to 14.37p 2009: 13.38p.
Net cash generated from operations was 33.4m 2009: 40.2m.
We absorbed approximately 6.8m of working capital into the development stage of our solar PV project.
Adjusting for this investment, net cash generated from operations was 40.2m and the Group has delivered an underlying operating cash 3 conversion of 76% 2009: 85%.
The Group held net cash balances cash and cash equivalents less loans and borrowings of 37.9m 2009: 31.3m at the year end which together with our available banking facilities provides support and funding flexibility for future growth opportunities.
Dividend The Board is recommending a 10% increase in the dividend for the year as a whole: this will comprise a final dividend of 2.64p per share which, when added to the interim dividend of 1.21p per share, gives a total for the year of 3.85p.
At this level the dividend is covered 3.7 times by adjusted diluted eps.
Subject to approval by the shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 12 November 2010 to shareholders on the Register at 15 October 2010.
Strategic Progress The strategic opportunities in Eagas core markets are significant and continue to broaden.
In last years Annual Report I set out the Groups key operational objectives for 2010.
These were: Our key operational objectives for 2010 were: Carbon Services: To capitalise on the opportunities in the CERT and CESP markets.
Heating and Renewables Services: To continue to grow our domestic heating 1 EBITA and PBTA are stated before amortisation of intangible assets, Eaga Partnership Trust EPTfunded charges and exceptional costs and renewables activities through the further 2 Adjusted diluted eps is stated before EPT-funded charges, exceptional development of strategic partnerships.
costs, amortisation of intangible assets and related tax adjustments 3 Underlying cash conversion is calculated as cash generated from operations excluding solar PV absorption of 6.8m and cash EPT-funded charges of 0.3m Managed Services: divided by EBITA excluding solar PV development costs of 1.6m To continue to diversify our contracts base 4 CERT Carbon Emissions Reduction Target.
This is a 1bn programme requiring energy suppliers to deliver carbon savings through improvements in the BPO market.
in the energy efficiency of the UK housing stock 5 CESP Community Energy Savings Programme.
This is a requirement for the energy generators and suppliers to spend 350m supporting localised community-based energy efficiency schemes Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chairmans Statement 03 In our Carbon Services business, to capitalise on the impacted by reduced installation volumes arising from 4 5 opportunities in the CERT and CESP markets: lower funding into the grant funded programmes, along In our Heating and Renewables business, to continue to grow with continued excess supply pressures in the wider market our domestic heating and renewables activities through the resulting in more competitive pricing.
In response to these further development of strategic partnerships: and pressures, we employed a strategy of not bidding for work on In our Managed Services business, to continue to diversify uncommercial terms which constrained growth but protected our contract base in the BPO market.
We expect to see a continuation of this competitive pressure through the current financial year.
Overall we have made good progress against these key objectives when measured against a background of fiscal However, it is encouraging to report that there are a number tightening and political change.
Alongside working to meet these of significant opportunities in the Heating and Renewables objectives, the Group has also continued to identify and deliver markets.
We have continued to develop strategic partnerships efficiency and productivity savings by constantly challenging to deliver growth in domestic heating through the provision and improving the way we deliver for our customers.
of services to a range of commercial customers.
We are also encouraged by the prospects in the domestic renewable energy Our Carbon Services business performed well during the year as market, which have been stimulated by the introduction of we have continued to work in partnership with a number of the Feed-in Tariffs FiTs in April 2010 and which we anticipate UKs leading energy suppliers.
I am particularly pleased with will further benefit from the expected introduction of the this performance given it has been delivered in a market which Renewable Heat Incentive during 2011.
Of specific focus during became increasingly challenging across the year, given the delay the year was the development of our solar PV programme in the announcement of the extension to the CERT programme.
and I expect this project to begin delivering at scale during Confirmation of the extension to CERT was made on 30 June the current financial year.
2010 and we are already seeing encouraging signs of improving demand following a slow-down towards the end of the 2010 financial year.
Building upon our expertise in CERT, we have made good progress under the recently introduced CESP programme.
We have so far secured contracts with four UK power generators which have an aggregate value of approximately 50m and an opportunity to match-fund Local Authority and social housing programmes.
Our Heating business was subject to increasing pressure across the financial year as excess supply in the delivery chain led to fierce competition for work.
The business performed well during the first half of the year, despite early signs that the market was becoming increasingly competitive.
However as we indicated in the Interim Management Statement in April, during the second half of the year performance was 04 Chairmans Statement continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 In our Managed Services segment performance of our existing The Board contracts was good.
Demand under both the grant funded fuel In September 2009 we announced the appointment of Willie poverty programmes and Digital Switchover Help Scheme has MacDiarmid to the Board in the role of Chief Operating Officer.
Whilst Government has signalled that front Willie brings a wealth of experience to Eaga having spent 19 line services will be least affected by a reduction in funding years at ScottishPower, most recently in the role of Managing levels, we do not expect further announcements on the future Director of Energy Retail.
funding levels for the fuel poverty programmes until the current Comprehensive Spending Review has been completed later We also announced in June this year, that Ian McLeod, Chief this year.
Financial Officer, will step down from the Board at the Groups Annual General Meeting in October.
Ians decision reflects his We started the financial year with a clear focus on diversifying desire to take a break from corporate life.
We are grateful to our contract base within Managed Services and made good Ian for his service and commitment and wish him well for the progress being shortlisted in the bidding for a number of future.
Ian will be succeeded by Giles Sharp who has been with contracts.
However, the General Election and early action of the Eaga for over five years, most recently in the role of Group new Government has slowed down the procurement processes Finance and Investor Relations Director, a position he assumed for a number of large Government outsourcing programmes.
The after leading Eagas IPO implementation programme in 2007. resultant delays will inevitably impact on our Managed Services segment in the short-term, but we believe that Governments UK Corporate Governance Code stated need to drive efficiencies and cost savings will provide Although the new Code applies to accounting periods significant medium and long-term opportunities.
beginning on or after 29 June 2010, I am pleased to report that Eaga already embraces its principles.
We verify this each Key Objectives for 2011 year through our Board Performance Review which I see as Our key objectives as we look forward to 2011, set against important in confirming that we operate to high standards and the backdrop of the market factors outlined above, are to: also in identifying opportunities to improve further.
Our reviews are externally facilitated every year and in every third year also Maintain our leading position in the CERT and CESP markets involve external scrutiny and commentary.
We consider, in a whilst positioning Eaga for the opportunities presented by rigorous and structured fashion, the performance of the Board, 6 the Green Deal : and its committees and individual Directors in terms of overall Deliver both our solar PV project at scale and prepare conduct and effectiveness as well as our evolution in terms of for significant growth in other domestic renewables membership and skills.
opportunities: and Capitalise on the momentum we have gained in diversifying In order to capture fully the issues that I should bear in mind our contract base.
as I chair the Board, I meet with shareholders to gauge at first hand their views of all aspects of Eaga and its management.
Our Partners My conclusions from these meetings are shared first with Eagas unique ownership structure harnesses significant Non-Executive Directors and then with the Board as a whole.
commitment from our staff, whom we refer to as Partners.
Overall I believe this approach is effective in ensuring Eaga Our core values continue to be at the heart of everything we operates to high standards of governance.
do, the clear aim of which is to deliver outstanding customer service.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all of our Partners for the contribution they have made to Eagas success in 2010.
Key objectives for 2011 Our key objectives as we look forward to 2011, set against the backdrop of the market factors outlined above, are to: Maintain our leading position in the CERT and CESP markets whilst positioning Eaga for the opportunities 6 presented by the Green Deal : Deliver both our solar PV project at scale and prepare for significant growth in other domestic renewables opportunities: and Capitalise on the momentum we have gained 6 Green Deal is a new Government proposal in which homeowners will be entitled to in diversifying our contract base.
spend up to 6,500 improving the energy efficiency of their home with repayments funded from future energy bills Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chairmans Statement continued 05 Strategic Positioning Over the last 15 years we have Climate change, energy security and resource conservation remain high on the global political agenda.
These issues developed business platforms are here to stay and with them an ongoing commitment that allow us to deliver efficient to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions with a shift to more efficient low carbon solutions.
This is a priority and innovative solutions targeted area for our new Government where there is a clear appetite, through mechanisms such as the Green Deal, to increase at those most in need.
the scale of domestic measures for low carbon energy generation and reduced resource consumption through improved energy efficiency.
Equally, the Government has made it clear that significant savings are to be made in the delivery of public policy and services.
This is expected to be driven through a combination of funding reductions and efficiency improvements with measures to include increased involvement of private sector financing in policy delivery, and greater outsourcing of Government programmes and services.
The implementation of such change will present some challenges as policies develop and significant longer term opportunity for Eaga with its track record of delivery in these markets.
Over the last 15 years we have developed business platforms that allow us to deliver efficient and innovative solutions targeted at those most in need.
More recently we have also demonstrated the ability to broaden our offering to the retail market.
Whilst we are experiencing some near term competitive challenges and market uncertainty, I believe that Eagas strategic positioning across its core markets leaves the business well placed to deliver future growth.
We have identified a number of opportunities for 2011 and the Board is confident about the prospects for the Group.
