COM CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Introduction dividend for the financial year of 11p The Groups trading improved through the per share.
year in keeping with the recovery across Corporate Responsibility the global economy.
In the first half the Sound Corporate Responsibility policies Group reported a sales decline of around and practices are integral to our business.
15%, returning to growth in all regions in The Group is a member of the FTSE4Good December and achieving second half sales index and the UK business is a Standard growth of 6%.
Towards the end of the year Bearer for the Carbon Trust.
In 2010, performance improved sharply exiting at Electrocomponents was again identified 15% sales growth in the final quarter.
by Corporate Knights, as one of their For the full year, Group sales were 972.6m Global 100 most sustainable corporations.
with an underlying decline of 5% and headline People profit before tax was 74.4m.
We are reliant on our people to meet and The Groups robust financial performance indeed exceed our customers expectations.
reflected the cost reduction initiatives I have been particularly impressed by their implemented by the management team in positive outlook and dedication throughout early 2009.
As a result operating costs, at the year as all of us have negotiated these constant foreign exchange, were reduced tough economic circumstances.
On behalf by around 5% compared to the previous of the Board I wish to thank everyone for year and the targeted cost savings of 18m their continued hard work.
annualised were achieved during the year.
The Board The continued strength of the Groups As previously announced I will not be seeking balance sheet is pleasing, with interest cover re-election to the Board at the upcoming of 20 times and net debt to EBITDA ratio of Annual General Meeting.
The recruitment for 1.6 times both of which remain comfortably my successor is already underway.
I will be within bank covenant levels.
leaving the Group at a time when the results show that the business is firmly on the path Strategy Helmut Mamsch to recovery and that our strategy is working In May 2008 the Group announced the Chairman well.
I would like to wish the management outcome of its strategy review.
This team continued success in the future.
identified five key areas to drive the Groups future performance: Current trading and outlook We are seeing the In the first seven weeks of the new financial Focus on International markets benefits as we year sales growth rates have increased further.
Develop our electronics and Group revenue has grown by around 23%, deliver our strategy maintenance offers the UK by around 11% and the International business by around 29%.
Within International, Exploit the full potential of eCommerce Continental Europe has grown by around 21%, Leverage our global infrastructure and North America by around 43% and Asia Pacific increase operating margins by around 29%.
Maintain UK profitability While the sustainability of the economic recovery remains unclear and comparatives I am very pleased that during the economic will become more demanding, this sales downturn we continued to invest in these momentum, together with our continued areas and accelerated the implementation investment in international markets, such that we are now seeing the benefits as eCommerce and electronics, positions us our strategy delivers.
The actions we have well to make progress in the coming year.
taken in the year to execute and deliver on our strategy are explained in more detail in the Chief Executives review.
Dividends The Board intends to recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6p per share to be paid on 23 July 2010, which combined Helmut Mamsch with the interim dividend of 5p per share paid Chairman in January 2010, would give a total ordinary
