CHAIRMANS STATEMENT fide cit in the Groups pension schemes, as measured under Robert Beeston IAS 19, declined by $44.3 million to $67.4 million at the end Chairman of the year.
Having also concluded a new four year, $200 million bank nancing facility in July 2010, the Board is very con dent of the Groups ability to finance further growth.
Dividend In 2009 the Board decided to maintain the dividend payout at the 2008 level of 2.9 pence, despite the economic downturn, because of its con dence in the Groups strategy and ability to make rapid progress as global economies recovered.
This has clearly been borne out by the excellent results reported for this year and so the Board feels it is I am very pleased to report on the signi cant improvement appropriate to recommence dividend growth.
The Board is in the Groups financial performance in 2010, following the therefore recommending a final dividend of 2.6 cents per effects of the general economic downturn in 2009.
The share which will be paid on 3 June 2011 in pounds sterling results are particularly satisfying to the Board because at the at an exchange rate of 1 $1.619 equivalent to a sterling core of the improvement are a number of strategic actions amount of 1.6 pence per share, to shareholders on the that have been undertaken by management over the last register on 6 May 2011.
This brings the total return to three years to improve the level and quality of the Groups shareholders for the year to 4.9 cents 3.1 pence, earnings.
These actions have also positioned us for growth representing an increase of seven per cent over the by placing talented business teams in high growth markets previous year.
Going forward the Board intends to continue and geographies, where our inherent skills can be fully to progress the dividend as the Groups dollar earnings and leveraged to produce exceptional performance.
actions have included the acquisition of Deuchem in Taiwan and China, the acquisition of Fancor in personal Health, safety and the environment care, the reorganisation of the Chromium business and I am happy to report that our activities in this important several high quality additions to our business teams.
All of area of our business have continued to be of a high these actions combined to make a signi cant contribution standard in 2010 with, again, no signi cant incidents to this years excellent results and ensure the Group is well reported by any of our businesses.
positioned for further pro table growth.
People Results The first rate results reported by the Group this year are, in Revenues in the period were $697.4 million compared to no small part, the result of the efforts, dedication and skill $563.7 million in the previous year, which is an increase of of our people around the world.
On behalf of the Board 23 per cent after adjusting for currency and acquisitions.
I would like to thank them all for their tremendous Operating pro t in 2010 improved by 183 per cent to contribution to our success.
$102.3 million, compared to $36.2 million in the previous year, before exceptional items.
In Specialty Products, the Outlook Groups largest business, sales volumes were well ahead The positive momentum and market demand experienced of the previous year in both the first and second halves of in 2010 has continued into the early part of 2011.
Even the year, demonstrating solid underlying growth in this though the first half of 2010 was positively impacted by business.
In Chromium, the 2009 restructuring exercise is customer restocking, our revenues and margins in the already showing positive results with good earnings and early part of this year are, nevertheless, showing an cash ow improvements in the year.
improvement over the previous year and our order book is currently robust.
The Board remains con dent in the Earnings per share, before exceptional items, in 2010 Groups strategy of continuing to focus on leveraging the improved to 15.2 cents, compared to 4.3 cents in 2009. unique characteristics of the Specialty Products business During the year the Group concluded that it should to generate further added value and growth.
We are recognise the value of certain deferred tax assets relating therefore con dent of the Groups ability to make further to past losses, resulting in a tax credit of $5.8 million.
As this is a non-recurring, one-time event it has been recorded as an exceptional item in our financial statements.
Basic earnings per share in 2010, including the tax credit, was 16.7 cents compared to a loss of 12.9 cents in 2009, which also included a number of one-time charges.
Balance sheet Robert Beeston As a result of the Groups strong earnings and cash Chairman generation in 2010 the balance sheet has continued to 1 March 2011 strengthen and at the end of the year the ratio of net debt to EBITDA had fallen to 0.6x 2009: 1.9x.
In addition, the 02 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010
