cHairmans statement Market conditions 2010 saw the average price of Brent crude oil at $79.5 Bbl, up almost 30% on 2009 and resulted in higher realised oil prices per barrel for EnQuest: up from $65.1 to $81.3 per barrel on a pro-forma basis.
During 2010, the increased level of crude oil prices reflected improving financial markets and strengthening of the overall global economy.
More recent global geo-political events have increased oil price volatility and highlighted supply side constraints.
Whilst we cannot predict the shortterm impact of oil price movements, EnQuest is well positioned in 2011 and well placed to capitalise on opportunities which may arise.
Over the long-term, I firmly believe that the fundamental economics of global supply and demand for oil will inevitably result in prices that will strongly support EnQuests strategy.
2010 was an interesting year for the UK North Sea upstream marketplace, with a number of independents leaving the UK listed sector.
Many of those that remain are focused on exploration rather than exploitation and are also managing a range of Dr James Buckee geographies outside the United Chairman Kingdom Continental Shelf.
Whilst recent UK government tax changes have been disappointing, nonetheless, 2010 was an excellent year for EnQuest PLC, following EnQuest is well positioned with its strong balance sheet and its skills our flotation in April.
EnQuest has been using its technical, and capabilities to take forward development projects.
I believe operational, commercial and asset management skills to that these strengths give EnQuest implement its differentiated strategy.
Our performance a competitive advantage in its marketplace.
delivered an impressive set of maiden results, with strong growth in production and earnings.
Pro-forma daily average The timely evolution of EnQuest In 2010 EnQuest was formed from net production grew by 55% compared to 2009, to 21,074 the demerged UK North Sea assets Boepd in 2010 and basic earnings per share of 4.0 cents of Petrofac Limited and Lundin Petroleum AB.
In April, following the increased by 111%.
Reported cash flow from operations was IPO process, EnQuest PLC made a $267.7 million, over four times 2009 levels.
I am pleased to successful debut on both the London Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq say that our conviction of EnQuests potential is already OMX in Stockholm.
EnQuest started proving to have been well founded.
with an initial net 2P reserves of 80.5 MMboe in the North Sea and a portfolio which included a number of undeveloped discoveries in this mature basin: clearly a compelling fit with EnQuests exploitation focused model.
EnQuests results today confirm this: these assets have been thriving within EnQuest, benefiting from the financial, technical and operational expertise and capital that is needed to optimise their development.
On formation, EnQuests operational priorities were the immediate 10 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements implementation of an effective Directors, given their knowledge highest ethical standards and to health, safety and environment of the Companys business and acting with complete integrity at all management system and the their experience.
Our employees and everyone integration of the overall structures associations with Petrofac Limited that we work with create and support of its two predecessor organisations.
and Lundin Petroleum AB mean that our reputation and ensure our During this transformation period, they are not independent, for the progress and success.
This Code we placed particular emphasis on purposes of the Combined Code.
demonstrates our commitment to developing a distinctive EnQuest EnQuest therefore undertook that ensuring that these high levels of culture and on establishing the they would both stand down from the conduct continue.
As part of this process Robin Pinchbeck will Delivering sustainable balanced In 2010, the EnQuest team delivered: be retiring at the EnQuest Annual growth its strong production performance, General Meeting on 25 May 2011.
The There are significant opportunities on its success in the 26th licensing Board and I would like to thank him the United Kingdom Continental Shelf round and the acquisition of Stratic for his important contribution to the UKCS.
With an estimated 15 to 24 Energy Corporation have all successful establishment of EnQuest.
billion Boe of projected reserves and reaffirmed our confidence in The Board plans to appoint a new resources remaining in the UKCS, this EnQuests model and in its ability independent Non-Executive Director should be a fertile environment for to achieve its growth objectives.
We believe that we have a good supply of development Investing for the future The creation of EnQuest has evidently opportunities and that EnQuest is one The EnQuest Board believes that put our employees through a of the few companies which can take reinvesting in our core business is key considerable period of change: these such opportunities and turn them into to building shareholder value and that forces of change have generated a operationally and economically viable the opportunities for investment are very positive momentum.
In the short time since it currently such that growth is a more enabled us to optimise our has been in existence, EnQuests effective way to generate returns organisational structure, increase performance has given the Board for investors than by paying out a our scale and build on our integrated increased confidence that it will be dividend.
This will be reassessed on a multi-disciplinary capabilities.
Whilst able to achieve its medium-term regular basis, but for the foreseeable EnQuests projects are always production growth objective.
future, cash will be invested in planned rigorously and methodically, ongoing production operations our employees also have the agility development and exploration projects to respond swiftly and effectively and acquisitions.
to unexpected opportunities as they arise: I believe that this is a key Creating a new force in integrated EnQuest differentiator.
After this development particularly busy launch year, the In order to help establish EnQuest, Board and I would like to thank we drew together a strong Board, EnQuests employees for their comprising leading industry players commitment, their enthusiasm and with the expertise and experience to their support throughout.
Our Chief Executive, Amjad Bseisu was one I would also like to welcome the highly of the founders of Petrofac Limited, skilled new people who have been having started its highly successful joining EnQuest.
EnQuests vision, its Petrofac Energy Developments performance to date and its pipeline division, and his vision was the initial of activity, are all helping us to attract driving force in the creation of some of the best talent in the industry EnQuest.
Both Chief Operating this is critical to delivering our Officer Nigel Hares and I worked ambitious growth plans.
We have initially with BP and then went on to successfully recruited a number of lead Talisman Energy, a company senior figures during the year, in areas which we are proud to say had an where there is strong competition for Earnings per share cents excellent growth record and also a resources.
EnQuest is building its similar business model to EnQuests.
reputation as a dynamic and attractive 2010 4.0 When Nigel and I saw a similarly place in which to work and where compelling potential in EnQuest, petroleum industry professionals can 2009 1.9 we had little hesitation in coming on develop excellent careers.
Our Chief Financial Officer, Jonathan Swinney, has broad Governance and the EnQuest Code Our employees have international mergers and acquisition of Conduct expertise and all of our Non-Executive The launch of EnQuests Code of the agility to respond Directors bring highly relevant Conduct was an important step in swiftly and effectively to in-depth experience of developing 2010.
The Code sets out the behaviour similar businesses.
which EnQuest expects of its unexpected opportunities Directors, managers and employees, During this critical formative period as they arise: I believe of our suppliers, contractors, agents for EnQuest, it has been invaluable and partners.
We are committed to that this is a key EnQuest to have both Robin Pinchbeck and complying with all applicable legal Alexandre Schneiter as Non-Executive requirements, to upholding the differentiator.
