Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 02 chairman and vice chairmans statement Delivering against strategy Government projections indicate that the Indian economy is set to grow at over 8% this financial year.
All policies of the Government rest on the premise that the domestic economy will see a high demand for goods and services as India modernises and industrialises further.
While there is some concern regarding inflation, the Indian Chief Economic Advisor recently made a statement that food inflation will come down to 7% from the present 10%.
Most macroeconomic analysts continue to believe the India growth story is intact and the only possible threat is an uncontrolled increase in global oil prices.
strategy Our strategy is clear: to create a world-class, low-cost, integrated energy company focused on India and positioned to capitalise on Indias rapidly growing energy demand.
While the focus is on India, Essar Energy will also pursue opportunities overseas which support our strategy and deliver value to our shareholders.
To deliver elcome to Essar Energys our strategy we will: optimise the We are creating W first annual report as a publicly performance of all our existing assets: listed company.
Despite listing in deliver growth through a variety of energy assets volatile market conditions against green-field and brown-field power and a backdrop of a challenging global oil and gas projects: leverage our skills that are critical economic and financial environment, and Indian asset base to identify further to the economic we are pleased to report that your growth opportunities: and, act as a Company has performed well.
At good corporate citizen with respect to development the end of 2010 our share price had the health and safety of our employees, risen 38.1% from the listing price of the communities in which we operate, of India.
420 pence, compared with a rise of and the environment.
The delivery 6.2% for the FTSE 100 over the same against this strategy will provide a more period a creditable performance.
predictable business performance over time which in turn, underpins the The global economic outlook is creation of value for our shareholders, improving even though the recovery in customers, employees and, importantly, the developed world remains fragile.
the communities around our operations.
India however, continues to stand apart, along with other emerging economies, We are happy to inform you that during and deliver solid growth due to its the year, your Chief Executive, Naresh high domestic consumption demand.
Nayyar, and his team have successfully As demand in India grows, so will its focused on delivering in line with energy needs and we are creating the above stated strategy.
This has energy assets that are critical to the resulted in a strong production and cost economic development of India.
We performance as well as progress on our believe that the fundamentals driving significant pipeline of growth projects.
Indian growth are robust and as a result, it is clear that the long term outlook We are also happy to share that as for Essar Energy remains strong.
a part of seeking opportunities in company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 03 Key milestones Delivering against strategy may 2010 Essar Energy lists on the overseas markets, we announced an governance and advancing the interests London Stock Exchange, exclusivity agreement with Shell UK of all shareholders equally.
The Directors becoming the largest primary Limited in February 2011 in relation to of Essar Energy were all appointed offering in the London an offer for the proposed purchase of ahead of our Listing on 7 May 2010. the oil refinery and other associated The Board is comprised of four market since 2007 assets at Stanlow, near Ellesmere Port, independent directors and three Cheshire, for a cash consideration of non-independent directors, including June 2010 US$350 million.
The acquisition of the your Chief Executive who is the Essar Energy enters the FTSE high complexity Stanlow refinery, which sole Executive Director.
The Board 100 Index, creating additional is the second largest refinery in the UK, is committed to having a majority will give Essar Energy direct access of independent directors who will interest in the shares of Essar to the UK market, is aligned with the bring relevant knowledge and Energy and increasing the Companys strategy to provide options experience to the Company.
liquidity of the Companys shares for the export of refined products from the Vadinar refinery in India, and In line with the principles of the June 2010 is being acquired at a competitive Combined Code, the Board has Essar Energy declared price when compared to other recent established an Audit Committee, comparable refinery transactions.
a Remuneration Committee, a winner of four CBM blocks, The acquisition will be conditional on, Nominations and Governance comprising of 2,233 sq.
km of amongst other items, the approval Committee, a Health, Safety and exploration acreage and inof Essar Energys shareholders at a Environment Committee and the first place prospective resources general meeting and is expected to be report on these Committees is provided of over 7.6 tcf of CBM gas completed in the second half of 2011. in the Corporate Governance report.
While we continue to deliver well against people July 2010 our plans, we are seeing some delays One thing that always impresses us is Essar Energy acquires in certain regulatory approvals that the quality of the people throughout Navabharat Power Pvt.
could impact the financial and operating Essar.
Our strategy is built upon Limited, a 2,250 MW performance of the Company.
However, creating world class assets, but our coal fuelled power plant timely receipt of approvals is a key risk results will be a function of the quality for all companies operating in India, of the people constructing, operating being set up in Orissa and other developing economies.
More details on some of these items february 2011 are given in the Principal Risks and Naresh Nayyar is a talented and Essar Energy completes Uncertainties section of this report.
experienced Chief Executive and he convertible bond offering, has developed a strong and diverse to raise US$550 million While the health and safety team with a depth of talent to support him.
On your behalf, the Board would performance at our operational plants was satisfactory, our overall progress like to thank Naresh and everyone february 2011 in this critical area can be further involved with our Company for the Essar Energy enters into improved.
2010 was declared as the contribution they have made in making exclusivity agreement and our first year as a plc so successful.
Year of Safety and during this period US$350 million offer for the Vadinar refinery achieved more than 1,000 days and over 18 million Stanlow refinery, the second man hours without a lost time incident.
ravi ruia largest refinery in the UK Chairman While the Board is pleased with these results at our operating plants, our progress in the area of health and prashant ruia safety, in particular, remains a focus at Vice Chairman both our construction and operating sites, and we remain committed to 18 March 2011 improving our performance in this area.
board governance Essar Energys Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate
