Overview Operations History Strengths Strategy Filtrona is a leading international supplier of speciality plastic and fibre products with four operating divisions Overview Filtrona focuses on the light manufacture and distribution of high volume, small but essential products to a wide range of customers, across diverse geographies within a broad but targeted range of international markets.
Filtronas strategic approach is to build on its core competencies and strong international positions through the investment in, and acquisition of, businesses which are engaged in the development and manufacture, sourcing and distribution of high volume, low unit cost, small but essential products for use in consumer, medical and industrial markets.
The Company will seek to acquire in known markets which fall within the existing scope of, or are complementary to, the operations of existing businesses within the Group.
The identification and successful exploitations of markets which offer significant value addition and growth opportunities through product innovation, distribution, service and cost improvements are integral to the future development of Filtrona as the Company seeks to enhance the competitive position of its global businesses.
Filtrona Values Style At Filtrona, we pride ourselves as being open, honest and enthusiastic, whilst celebrating our successes and Style Responsibility learning from our experiences.
We aim to be passionate in our pursuit of excellence and dedicate ourselves to the very best of quality in everything we do.
We will work as a team, valuing everyones contribution and minimising bureaucracy.
We will treat each other in a consistent and fair manner.
Goals Responsibility We will share our company strategy and ensure we understand the part we play in it.
We will all have clear goals, the necessary resources and freedoms to achieve them, and honest assessment of our performance.
We will always conduct ourselves with integrity and respect for our fellows and for our environment.
We will aim to advance our knowledge, skills and professionalism in all we do.
We will do our best and accept accountability for our actions.
Goals We will strive to delight our customers and hold the respect of our suppliers.
We will work together to grow our business for the benefit of our stakeholders.
