4 Unlocking Resources Chairmans Statement 2010 was another successful year for ENRC.
We continued to execute our growth and diversification strategy, including significant acquisitions in Africa and Brazil.
Our operations in Kazakhstan continued to perform strongly throughout the year.
Dr Johannes Sittard, Chairman EPS US cents 2010 170 2009 81 2008 205 Dividends per share US cents 2010 30.5 2009 12 2008 31 ENRC maintained its dividend policy and payouts throughout the economic downturn.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Our operations in Kazakhstan continued to We continued to invest in training and In February 2011, Mr Felix Vulis, our perform strongly throughout the year with development and this helps ensure that Chief Executive Officer, decided to step record levels of production and capacity our workforce is better able to meet the down for personal reasons.
The Board fully utilisation which, along with improved markets challenge of integrating and developing understands his decision and is grateful for and managements cost control measures, our suite of assets.
The commitment his commitment to serve until a new Chief resulted in an increase in earnings per share of our employees, in Kazakhstan and Executive Officer is appointed in order to of 110%.
elsewhere, was instrumental in enabling ensure a smooth management transition.
us to take advantage of improving global The strength and focus of our management economic conditions to deliver good results.
We are pleased to recommend to team has been critical for the implementation On behalf of the Board, I offer thanks to shareholders a final dividend of US 18.0 of our strategic plans.
Kazakhstan has all our employees.
cents per ordinary share to be paid on provided a stable platform on which to build 15 June 2011 to all shareholders on the the Groups wider ambitions, supported by The continued extension of health and register on 1 April 2011 making the full year the countrys proximity to our main markets safety initiatives throughout the Group dividend US 30.5 cents.
Our dividend policy of Russia and China, its wealth of mineral remained a key focus.
Although we have remains unchanged.
Payment of the final resources and by the efforts of our seen a reduction in the number of fatalities, dividend is subject to shareholder approval employees.
Our disciplined approach to seven people lost their lives at work during at the Annual General Meeting which will be acquisitions enabled us to make progress 2010.
Every fatality is investigated so that held on Wednesday, 8 June 2011. towards becoming a more diversified mining lessons are learned for the future.
We believe that by extending our remains that all fatalities can be avoided We believe that the global economic outlook portfolio of commodities and products and are unacceptable.
is still improving and expect that 2011 will we are strengthening our business model.
offer further opportunities for the Group to Two new appointments were made build on the success of 2010.
The Group made significant progress to the Board in 2010.
In January we in its diversification strategy during 2010, announced the appointment of Professor with material additions to the Groups Dr Dieter Ameling as an independent scope in both central Africa and Brazil.
non-executive Director and in August, These transactions hold considerable value Mr Jim Cochrane, already the Groups potential, and balance the opportunities Head of Sales and Marketing, joined they offer with the demands that are placed the Board and was promoted to on internal resources and the complexity Chief Commercial Officer.
We place considerable emphasis on thorough financial and legal due diligence and risk assessment in order to ensure the optimal return for shareholders over the life of the projects.
Our people We continue to invest in the training and development of our workforce to ensure that we successfully meet the challenges of integrating recently acquired assets.
