chairmans statement Padraic Fallon We proved in the year before last a very dangerous one in financial Your companys revenues are growing as I markets that we could successfully defend our earnings in very write, and the number of our colleagues is tough conditions by quickly restructuring costs.
The results for last year also growing as we invest for further growth.
demonstrated how the company could perform when revenues began to The new financial year has begun well on the grow again.
They also demonstrated how valuable a strong subscription back of the old, when we produced a 37% base can be when more volatile revenues are hit hard.
Overall, on the back of a 4% increase in revenues, the company delivered an increase increase in adjusted profits before tax to in adjusted diluted earnings a share of 32% and, as promised, the total 86.6 million, easily a record.
Cash flows are dividend, if the proposed final is approved, will be covered three times very strong, debt is falling rapidly, and there by earnings, to produce an increase of 28% to 18p a share.
is more headroom for acquisitions that fit our strict criteria.
After strong first half results, driven largely by the benefit of cost cuts made the year before, the second half brought an increase in revenues We cannot see far into this new financial year, yet through 41 years of of 16%, after an 8% fall in the first.
This better than expected revenue Euromoneys history we have seen how volatile markets can be, how performance helped to offset the groups significant investment in new big financial institutions can fail, and how fast the business world can products and the online migration of its print businesses.
The groups change, so we continue with a strategy that increasingly rests on longadjusted operating margin improved to 30% last year, against 25% term growth in emerging markets or, more accurately, in those outside in 2009. the OECD member countries.
Net debt at September 30 was 128.8 million compared to 178.1 That strategy is one of providing the highest quality independent million at March 31.
The sharp reduction in debt levels reflects the good research, information, data, events, and training, at an international second half revenue performance as well as the groups rigorous debt level, increasingly from digital platforms and with a growing emphasis management and strong cash flows.
Our net debt to EBITDA ratio fell to on subscription income.
Its emphasis is on owning high quality products 1.3 times, against 1.9 times at March 31, similar to the level immediately that are valued in bad times as well as good, and are as resilient as before the acquisition of Metal Bulletin plc in 2006. we can make them, and we plan to add more of this type of product in 2011 than in any year I can remember.
They probably wont all be The recent strength of equity and commodity markets, and the positive successful, and the rewards from those that customers may come to outlook for emerging markets, all provide momentum for further value will not generate significantly higher revenues and profits for recovery.
However, the broader outlook for global economic growth some time, but we believe that there will be many opportunities that remains challenging, while many global financial institutions have we should seize.
reported disappointing results for their second and third quarters.
This, together with lingering concerns over sovereign debt levels in Europe, and the effectiveness of measures to avoid a repeat of the credit crisis, creates uncertainty over the outlook beyond December.
Nevertheless, the outlook for the start of the new financial year is good and the recovery in revenues experienced in the second half has continued into the first quarter.
As usual at this time, forward revenue visibility beyond the first quarter, traditionally the groups least important three months of trading, is limited other than from subscriptions, and revenue growth will be harder to achieve as the 2010 comparatives become tougher.
strategy Throughout the year the company continued its efforts to increase the proportion of revenues derived from subscription products, accelerate the online migration of its print products as well as developing new electronic information services, invest in products of the highest quality, eliminate products with a low margin or too high a dependence on advertising, maintain tight cost control at all times, retain and foster an entrepreneurial culture, and to generate strong cash flows to fund acquisitions that fit the criteria we set.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 04 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Over the past year, the opportunities to acquire such businesses have recover in the second quarter of financial year 2010, will be tougher been limited, although the acquisition of Arete in August was a good from January onwards.
example of the small but high quality online publishing businesses the group seeks to acquire.
Arete is the definitive global data and news The level of spending on technology and new product investment will source for retail  products, primarily through its increase further in 2011.
In the short-term, this may reduce operating proprietary database containing information on more than 1.3 million margins as most of the investment is being made in subscription-based structured products around the world.
Early signs of trading at Arete electronic information services which have a long lead time to build and are encouraging.
sell, whereas the investment entails adding people and marketing costs and is expensed as incurred.
The group will also continue to execute While tight cost management was maintained throughout the year, significant long-term investment programmes for BCA and CEIC, two the strategic focus has shifted to driving revenue growth, both from of its most important online information businesses, with a view to existing products as markets recover, and from investment in technology building rapidly the quality and coverage of their products as well as platforms and new products as part of the migration to an online expanding their sales forces to take advantage of an increasing demand information business.
During the year the group invested more than 6 for research and information.
million in online products and new businesses, all of it from profits, and there is a significant programme of new launches planned for 2011.
Our colleagues who now number more than 2,000 across the world Perhaps of even more significance is the amount of scarce management have done a remarkable job in producing such good results, and I thank time invested in these new products.
them, as I thank them also for their enthusiastic support for the groups latest charitable project which will bring clean water and sanitation to At the same time, the group began to execute long-term investment an estimated 22,000 people in one of the poorest slums in Africa.
programmes for two of the groups most important electronic information businesses BCA, the independent economic research business, and CEIC, the provider of emerging market databases for economists and analysts around the world with a view to building rapidly the quality and coverage of their products as well as expanding their global sales resources.
This increased level of investment is being Padraic Fallon undertaken with a view to driving revenue growth for 2012 and beyond.
Chairman November 10 2010 Outlook The board expects the good revenue performance achieved in the second half of 2010 to continue through the first quarter of financial year 2011.
Further, subscriptions, which account for nearly 50% of the groups revenues, were growing at an annual rate of 7% at the end of 2010, which provides support for further growth in 2011.
However, comparisons for advertising and events revenues, which began to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 05 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Chairmans Statement Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
