2 Experian Annual Report 2010 Introduction Chairmans statement Experian has delivered another excellent financial performance despite the economic challenges in some of our major markets.
Our continuing strong cash generation has enabled us to adjust our distribution policy to the benefit of shareholders.
Looking ahead, we see many opportunities for further growth and are pursuing these with vigour and focus.
licence to build a credit bureau 39 major automobile manufacturer Year in review with seven of the countrys leading in China to improve customer Experian has continued to benefit financial institutions.
15 satisfaction, helped an international from its balanced portfolio and energy company to understand strong market positions, together Another key trend this year was the its customers better and provided with the careful execution of a robust growing proportion of revenues 25 a leading global entertainment cost-efficiency programme.
coming from outside financial software company with the ability services, such as the public to keep in touch with millions of Particularly encouraging was our sector, telecommunications and customers around the world.
strong growth in emerging markets, utilities, which are providing us which now account for almost one with significant future growth Experian is also increasingly fifth of Group revenues.
In this annual report, providing services directly to America, organic growth was up we have illustrated some of the ways consumers through our Interactive 16% as market conditions improved, in which Experian has supported business, which enables individuals triggering a rebound in credit clients during the year across an to monitor their personal credit demand.
Experian also performed ever-broadening range of markets.
In the UK, our strongly in other emerging markets, For example, we have helped Interactive revenue grew by 38% this such as South Africa and China, and the UK public sector to reduce year, helping us to offset some of the made important strategic progress 27 housing benefit fraud, enabled a effects of the economic downturn in India with the granting of a full Revenue EBIT Benchmark profit before tax US$3.9bn US$991m US$910m Profit before tax from EBIT margin from continuing operations of Total and organic revenue continuing activities up 80 basis points to US$661m and benchmark from continuing activities 24.4%, excluding FARES profit before tax of up 2%, with total revenue contribution US$910m, up 8% improving by US$69m Revenue US$m EBIT US$m Benchmark profit before tax US$m 10 3,859 10 991 10 910 09 3,790 09 939 09 843 08 3,712 08 908 08 783 Continuing activities only.
2009 restated to exclude See page 100 for definition of benchmark profit small discontinuing activities in North America and before tax.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Introduction 3 in this region.
We are also investing strategy.
We are introducing a share of our skills and services to tackle in ground-breaking new products, buyback programme and intend to important social issues.
com, which alerts increase our dividend payout ratio initiative, supporting microfinance consumers to changes in their credit over the next 12 months.
amongst communities without files and to other activity that might access to traditional banking indicate identity fraud.
services, has come to fruition this Board year and another, addressing ethnic Since the year-end, Experians board diversity in the workplace, is under Product innovation is a key driver of has been further strengthened by development.
growth for Experian in all our markets 52 the appointment of Judith Sprieser and we have continued to invest and Paul Walker as non-executive 53 As the business grows, our strongly in new data sources and directors.
Both have extensive community programme is continuing new analytical products, together boardroom experience, as well as to keep pace.
Experians total with the platforms that support their a broad perspective of the global community contribution this year worldwide delivery.
Over 20% of technology and software industries, was up 13%, as the result of increases Group revenues come from products which will be a great asset to in employee volunteering and pro developed during just the past Experian as we continue to extend bono work for charitable projects.
many of our major markets, such as Brazil, North America and the UK, Capital strategy 48 Corporate responsibility employees are taking part in some Good capital stewardship is a Corporate responsibility remains excellent volunteer programmes to 8 cornerstone of Experians strategy a high priority for the Board and help vulnerable communities improve and the Board devotes a great deal of we again set targets for enhancing their financial literacy.
time to ensuring a prudent balance Experians contribution to society between investing in the future of the and reducing our impact on the Summary business and returning surplus cash environment.
This has been another challenging to shareholders.
Experian is fortunate year for many parts of the Group, but in generating more cash than most In many ways, Experian is already a we have continued to grow profitably, businesses our size and this position force for good through the support while investing in our business.
As has been greatly strengthened by the we provide to clients: helping to we emerge from the global economic continuing successful growth of the ensure responsible access to credit, downturn, we can take pride in the Group.
After careful consideration, reducing fraud and improving fact that, throughout the downturn, the Board has decided to enhance business efficiency.
But we are Experian has never stopped growing.
Experians current distribution also encouraging the application It is a tremendous achievement that has called for strong management, great teamwork and a supreme effort on the part of all our people.
Basic EPS Full-year dividend Right now we are focused on the US 59.0c year ahead and on the opportunities that will enable us to accelerate this US 23.0c growth.
Experian is in good shape and we are looking to the future with confidence.
Benchmark earnings per share up 8% to US67.1c and basic EPS of US59.0c, John Peace up 23% Dividends per share up 15% Chairman Basic earnings per share US cents Dividend US cents 10 59.0 10 23.0 09 48.0 09 20.0 08 43.3 08 18.5
