Chairmans Statement A successful year with strong growth achieved Earnings grew to a record level as the resilience, operational gearing and strength of all our businesses was demonstrated.
The global growth fundamentals driving our heavyweight belting operations have remained strong which has enabled another robust performance from the Conveyor Belting Division.
Our Advanced Engineered Products Division saw an improving performance through the year, enhanced by the economic recovery, and exited the year with margins at pre-recession levels.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS of the Groups substantial organic investment programme.
With the Revenue increased by 11% to 552.5m 2009 499.4m with demand increase in cash generated from trading and tight working capital levels gaining momentum as the year progressed and a marked management, net debt reduced by 55.0m to 110.4m 2009 165.4m, improvement in the second half of the year.
Underlying operating profit demonstrating the Groups ability to generate strong cash flow.
No exceptional items were recorded during the year 2009 17.4m which, when combined The Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend to 4.8p per with the improved trading result, generated a significant increase in share which gives a total dividend for the year of 7.2p per share 2009 operating profit to 49.3m 2009 17.1m.
The weakening of sterling increased net finance costs to 12.1m 2009 OPERATIONS 11.5m, comprising 10.7m 2009 10.2m of net interest payable and The Conveyor Belting Division, which was largely unaffected by the a non-cash notional charge of 1.4m 2009 1.3m relating to defined economic downturn, has continued to grow at a healthy rate.
The energy benefit post-retirement schemes and the unwinding of discount on driven demand for thermal coal underpinned revenue growth and some provisions.
Interest cover was 5.3 times 2009 4.0 times.
recovery has been seen in industrial segments.
Our business units are well placed to benefit from continuing market buoyancy driven by the energy The headline and underlying tax rates were 29% and 30% respectively.
sector and slowly improving industrial markets.
Following the successful Underlying earnings per share was 17.9p 2009 12.8p and basic commissioning of our major organic investments, we are seeing operational earnings per share was 14.6p 2009 2.6p.
efficiencies and margins improve and our new wide belt products have proceeded to field testing with customers.
Our global service network has 35.2m of equity finance was raised during the year to fund acquisitive continued to expand both organically and by acquisition.
Payments made for acquisitions amounted to 16.9m which small service operation based in Italy, was acquired in September 2009 and related to an expansion of both our medical and conveyor belting service has now been successfully integrated into our Dunlop business.
We businesses together with deferred amounts from prior periods.
Capital continue to pursue opportunities for further expansion in our service expenditure reduced to 10.5m 2009 34.3m following the completion businesses through new start-ups and acquisitions.
2 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 On 4 November 2010, after the year end, we exchanged contracts to by the Nomination Committee following an evaluation of the knowledge, acquire 100% of the business and assets of Belle Banne Victoria, Leading skills and experience required for the role, which included external Edge Conveyor Solutions and associated interests.
He has successfully held a number of senior executive which are interlinked, are based in Australia.
An initial cash consideration management positions within the Advanced Engineered Products Division of AUD$21.95m will be paid at completion to acquire 50.01% of the and is currently a member of the Group Executive Committee.
principal businesses and a holding in associated interests.
After an initial joint venture period, the remaining share of the businesses will be I leave Fenner in very safe hands and have complete confidence that Mark acquired within six years for AUD$21.5m plus contingent deferred and Nick, supported by our strong senior executive team, will take the performance related amounts.
Total consideration is capped at Group forward to further success.
These acquisitions will further strengthen our belting service network in this important region.
We welcomed Alan Wood in April 2010 and John Sheldrick in September 2010 as non-executive directors.
Alan is non-executive Chairman of In the Advanced Engineered Products Division, a continuously improving Siemens Holdings plc, a non-executive director of Ceres Power Holdings trend has been seen through the year.
We have experienced growth from plc and is a highly respected engineer with considerable experience in both an underlying recovery in industrial markets, particularly in the US, running world class manufacturing businesses.
John recently retired as and from customer restocking.
A solid level of demand from the oil and Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc and is a non-executive gas sector has benefited the seals business and activity levels from the director of GKN plc where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Their general hydraulic sector have improved consistently.
Overall, the trading experience at Siemens and Johnson Matthey respectively provides performance in the final quarter of the year was very strong with exit run valuable and independent challenge around the Board table.
John will take rate margins recovering to pre-recession levels.
Our business over as Chairman of the Audit Committee upon the retirement of David development programmes have continued with several new opportunities Buttfield at the next AGM in January 2011.
I would like to thank David for being pursued.
Secant Medical has expanded its capacity with a new his valued contribution both as Chairman of the Audit Committee and as facility and has undertaken process changes to manage existing and future the Senior Independent Director.
David Campbell, a non-executive director business growth.
These allow us to address more aggressively expanding since 2005 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will succeed supply needs in the biomedical textiles field and ensure we can remain David Buttfield as the Senior Independent Director.
As a consequence, this aligned closely with our customers development requirements, from demonstrates a strong and independent non-executive presence on the concept through to commercialisation.
The acquisition in July 2010 of Board.
MRI Manufacturing & Research, Inc, located in Arizona in the US, strengthened further our presence in the medical device market.
OUTLOOK The new year has commenced strongly with all our businesses performing PEOPLE well.
Growth of our niche products continues as our dedication to customer On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our employees for their service provides increasing opportunities to win new business.
This is commitment, hard work and continuing support over the last year.
complemented by healthy order books in our Conveyor Belting Division.
I shall be retiring from the Board on 1 March 2011 and I am delighted that With the benefit of our widespread geographic reach, we expect to Mark Abrahams has accepted the invitation to succeed me as noncontinue our rate of progress this year.
Marks appointment follows consultation with major shareholders, who are supportive and who, like the Board, recognise the Colin Cooke benefits of the continued contribution of his considerable knowledge and Chairman experience of the Group and its markets.
On the same date, Nick Hobson will be appointed Chief Executive Officer.
Nick, who has been with the Group for over 20 years in total, was selected Financial performance measures described as underlying within this statement are before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and exceptional items and, where applicable, notional interest.
