chairmans statement The Board is confident in the underlying strength and resilience of the business which will ensure the Group is well placed to continue to deliver long term value for our shareholders.
mArTiN GilBerT As we expected, the continued economic weakness presented a Net debt reduction is a key priority for the Group.
Despite the number of challenges for the Group during the year.
The impact of the challenging trading environment during the year I am delighted that we recession on passenger volumes in the UK and North America and have exceeded our target for net cash generation which will be used pressures on public spending in North America were combined with to reduce net debt.
Furthermore, we are confident of the opportunities significantly higher hedged fuel costs during the year.
Our strategy to increase net cash generation within the Group and to accelerate to build a diverse portfolio of operations has delivered a resilient our deleveraging plans.
performance during the year despite the tough trading environment and, as parts of our business moved through the economic cycle at In line with our stated commitment the Board has proposed a final different times, ensured that the Group is not wholly dependent on dividend, subject to approval by shareholders, of 14.0p, an increase one market.
of 10%, making a full year payment of 20.65p.
It will be paid on 20 August 2010 to shareholders on the register at 16 July 2010.
We had a clear strategy to lead the Group through these challenging The dividend is covered 1.9 times by adjusted basic EPS.
times and took prompt and decisive action to mitigate the effects of the recession.
A significant programme of cost reduction was Looking ahead, the Board recognises the importance of dividends to delivered during the year together with rigorous network management shareholders and we remain committed to delivering sustained real to ensure that service provision was closely matched to changing growth in the dividend.
Our confidence in the inherent strength and demand.
Against this backdrop we continued to focus on safety and resilience of the Group, an expected return to earnings growth and customer service.
The provision of safe, high quality and reliable strong cash generation supports the Boards commitment to dividend services is our key priority and during the year we made further growth of at least 7% over the next three years.
advances in these areas as we continue to develop our industryleading initiatives.
In March 2010 Ellis Watson, Group Marketing and Business Development Director, stepped down from the Board to take up the The Groups capital structure was further strengthened during the position of Chief Executive Officer of Syco Entertainment.
We thank year as we made progress in executing our plan to extend the him for his contribution and wish him every success in his new role.
maturity profile of our net debt and reduce reliance on bank finance with the issue of 350m and 200m bonds in April and September The performance of the Group is underpinned by the strong 2009 respectively.
Both bond issues attracted strong support from management team we have established.
Their range of skills and fixed income investors demonstrating the continued confidence in experience, from both within and outside the industry, and track the underlying strength and resilience of the Group.
The maturity record of achievement have been fundamental to the performance profile of the Groups net debt is now 6.3 years.
In addition, the of the Group this year and going forward will drive its successful Group continues to have a strong liquidity position with over 1bn future development.
of headroom available under committed revolver facilities.
10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OperATiNG ANd FiNANciAl revieW On behalf of the Board I would like to extend sincere thanks to all of our employees across the Group.
Their ongoing commitment and dividend per share pence Dividend growth of 10% per annum since 2003 04. professionalism have enabled us to report a resilient performance against the weaker economic backdrop.
We recognise the vital role 20.65 they have played during the year in establishing an even stronger 18.75 base from which the Group will continue to build.
17.05 15.50 Looking ahead we anticipate the new financial year will continue to 14.10 be challenging as the global economic outlook remains uncertain.
12.81 However, the Group will continue to benefit from the diverse portfolio 11.65 of operations, with contract-backed and passenger revenues.
Our management team have demonstrated their skill and experience in cost control and network management.
We will continue to implement the necessary actions to reduce our cost base and increase operating efficiencies as well as closely manage service provision against changing demand.
2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 The Board is confident in the underlying strength and resilience of the business which, combined with the actions taken to mitigate the adverse impacts of the recession, will ensure the Group is well placed to continue to deliver long term value for our shareholders.
martin Gilbert chairman Operating profit referred to throughout the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives operating review and Finance Directors review refers to operating profit before amortisation charges, hedge ineffectiveness on financial derivatives, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and loss profit on disposal of properties.
EBITDA is adjusted operating profit plus depreciation.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
