2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholders, The Fresnillo Board regards the Groups performance in health, safety, environmental and comI am pleased to report a year of solid performance munity issues as integral to its operational perforfor Fresnillo plc.
Record levels of silver and gold promance.
This year we engaged in discussions about duction, the start-up of a new mine, and substantial the strategic framework for corporate social reprogress at development and exploration sites attest sponsibility, the impact of the Groups social investto the Groups operational execution and robust rements, and broader industry benchmarks in this source base.
Combined with high silver and gold pricregard.
Our focus remains squarely on prioritising es, Fresnillo plc delivered the best year in its history.
the health and safety of employees above all else, minimising the Groups environmental impact, and This performance comes in the context of a comengaging constructively with communities to create plex global economic recovery, ongoing market lasting economic and social value.
volatility, debt crisis in Europe, large fiscal deficits in several developed countries, loose monetary policy It is thus with great sadness that I report the death in the USA and the continued ascendancy of China, of two employees this year.
We hold ourselves to factors that contributed to the exceptional rise in the highest standard in which no fatality is ever acprecious metal prices.
Additional training and monitoring across the organisation are being implemented to enforce Notwithstanding the important benefit of favouradherence to safety measures.
able prices, the Groups production and cost profile, growth platform and mining expertise contributed to Furthermore, and as part of the Companys adoption the positive performance.
With an average cash cost of the Principles of the UK Corporate Governance of US$3.3 per ounce of silver and US$309.1 per ounce Code, the Board has initiated a process to explicitly of gold, the Fresnillo Group should be able to prodefine the nature and extent of the risks we are willduce profitably well below current prices, and do so ing to take to achieve our strategic objectives.
We for years to come given the 1.47 billion silver ounces believe the Company already has a comprehensive and 20.08 million gold ounces in resources.
Furtherapproach to managing risks, and this process will more, Fresnillo plc has the know-how to identify high enhance our framework and ensure full alignment potential resources and develop them economically, of Board-and executive-level practices.
establishing a good pipeline for growth.
like all of my board colleagues, I am firmly comAs such, I believe we are on course to meet the ammitted to ensuring that we collectively oversee bitious target set out at the time of our initial public Fresnillo plc with transparency and in the interest offering in 2008: that by 2018, Fresnillo plc will be of all shareholders.
We are fully committed to the able to produce 65 million ounces of silver and over best possible practices in corporate governance, 400,000 ounces of gold annually.
Furthermore, the and take our adherence to the principles and proGroup should be in a position to maintain that level visions of the new UK Code on Corporate Governof production for the subsequent 10 years at least, ance very seriously.
In particular we recognise that based on the project delivery schedule that has the shareholding structure of Fresnillo plc requires been set out in our Review of Operations.
us to ensure, as we have done, that the interests of all shareholders are well represented in the proInvesting across metal price cycles to extend the ceedings of the Board.
In our reporting this year, we growth pipeline will continue to be a hallmark of have sought to demonstrate the steps put in place our value-creation strategy.
We also seek to deliver to achieve this.
growth through development projects and maximise the potential of existing operations.
Underlying Based on the Groups 2010 performance, the Directhis strategy are two fundamental pillars: prudent tors have recommended a final dividend of 35.6 US financial discipline to ensure sufficient investment cents per Ordinary Share, which will be paid on 20 capital even under unfavourable price scenarios: May 2011 to shareholders on the register on 3 May and most importantly, a profound and unwavering 2011.
The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling commitment to long-term sustainable development.
unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 3 The Companys dividend policy takes into account Investing across metal price the profitability of the business and underlying cycles, delivering growth growth in earnings of the Company, as well as its through development projects capital requirements and cashflows, whilst mainand maximising the potential of taining an appropriate level of dividend cover.
existing operations will continue to be a hallmark of our valueFor 2011, despite the uncertain outlook for economcreation strategy.
ic and metal price performance, we expect that our high quality resource base and low-cost production profile will enable Fresnillo plc to deliver growth.
Silver and gold production volumes will reflect the start-up of commercial operations at Saucito, a significant property with 361.5 million ounces of silver resources.
Gold production will benefit from expanded milling capacity at Cinega and the expansion of Soledad-Dipolos.
The Board has authorised a 151.1% increase in the 2011 exploration budget, to US$251.4 million.
The favourable exploration results obtained in 2010, including significant new resources identified at existing projects that will warrant mine expansion in the near term, reinforce our confidence that such expenditures are vital to the long-term growth of the Group.
The focus will remain on consolidating mining districts in Mexico and Peru.
I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their service and contributions in the year.
It is a pleasure to work together towards a common mission, and Fresnillo plc benefits from the wealth of experience and perspectives that our outstanding Board members bring.
I would also like to commend the Groups executives and employees for delivering great performance that affirms Fresnillo plcs leadership position in primary silver and our growing profile in gold.
Alberto Baillres NoN-executive chAirmAN F Fresnillo plc resnillo plc 2010 2010 Annual Report Annual Report 4 Fresnillo plc team of geologists 5 STRATEGY iN thiS SectioN Market Review 6 Business Model 10 Strategy and KPIs 12 Strategic Resources 20 Risk Management Framework 22 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 23 F Fresnillo plc resnillo plc Fresnillo plc 2010 2010 2010 Annual Report Annual Report Annual Report
