The GAME Group plc 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Chairmans statement The Group has delivered the second best trading performance in its history Peter Lewis, Chairman We outperformed the market and our Overview performance can be attributed to our position as the market leading specialist, our strength in The Group has delivered preowned, our multi-channel customer offer the second best trading and disciplined operational management.
performance in its history We saw a decrease in the demand for consoles with profit before taxation through the year.
This was largely attributable to and non-recurring costs the Nintendo Wii which performed exceptionally well in the previous year.
Strong of 90.4 million comparables in the prior year, combined with 2009: 124.0 million.
declining hardware sales and a number of key releases moving into 2010, resulted in a decline Our results were delivered in software sales.
against the backdrop of The market responded well to the release of a very difficult trading new hardware technology, the Nintendo DSi, and innovative sequels to established franchises environment, which saw such as Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, FIFA 10, the global pc and video and Wii Sports Resort.
GAME took the leading games market decline market share in sales of these products.
The challenges in the pc and video games market were exacerbated by the difficult economic conditions with customers understandably focussed on getting the very Our performance The GAME Group plc 21 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 best value for money.
GAME responded rapidly Financial and Operational highlights to these challenges by amplifying our core strengths.
170bps These include a market leading preowned Group gross margin improved by 170bps model which enables us to compete directly in a market where some competitors are using loss leading tactics.
This, supported by the 21.1m widest range of products, market leading Increased preowned revenues to promotions and offers, over 14 million Reward 374.5 million 2009: 353.4 million Card holders and a strong online proposition, representing over 21 per cent of sales: gross enabled us to deliver recognisable value for margin up by 260 bps to 41.7 per cent money.
We continue to believe that this is the right offering in a market where we will see continued technological advance and 16m broadening customer appeal.
Completed Gamestation integration on schedule and delivered 16m of synergies In addition, we maintained our focus on cost control and operational management.
We have taken decisive action to improve 5% operational efficiency, driving through Dividend increased by 5 per cent significant cost synergies and exiting from underperforming store locations.
Results Group turnover for the 52 weeks ended 31 January 2010 decreased by 10.0 per cent to 1,772.4 million 53 weeks ended 31 January 2009: 1,968.6 million with lfl sales down by 15.0 per cent.
In the UK and Ireland, total sales decreased by 16.6 per cent and lfl sales were down by 17.3 per cent.
In our International operations, total sales increased by 4.8 per cent and lfl sales fell by 10.8 per cent.
Our Online operations outperformed the rest of our business on a like for like basis although sales still decreased by 9.1 per cent.
The Group gross margin improved by 170 basis points principally due to an increase in higher margin preowned products within the overall sales mix, up from 18 per cent to 21 per cent.
The Group continues to exercise strong cost control disciplines, with savings in the underlying cost base of approximately 5 million.
Additionally, the Group has achieved a further 6 million of synergies from the Gamestation Further information go to: integration, bringing the total synergies for the Page 43.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Chairmans statement continued Group operating profit before non-recurring and Sony, PlayStation Move.
These products will continue to broaden the appeal of video costs was 94.8 million 2009: 130.9 million.
Profit before tax and non-recurring costs was games and expand customer choice, with GAME being a key destination for showcasing 90.4 million 2009: 124.0 million and basic earnings per share before non-recurring costs their launches.
They will require demonstration and explanation, both of which are the were 19.24p 2009: 26.09p.
We are seeing new entrants to our market, including mobile Reflecting its confidence in the medium term prospects of the Group, the Board proposes a operators, and are extending our offer in store and online to provide our customers with even final dividend of 3.9p per share 2009: 3.71p, an increase of 5 per cent.
This will result in a full more choice.
year dividend of 5.78p per share 2009: 5.5p, an increase of 5 per cent.
Our Channels and Locations GAME delivers a specialist proposition that Our net cash position as at 31 January 2010 leads on value, product range and choice, service and loyalty across all channels.
The decrease largely reflects a change in the Stores: With over 1,300 stores, we are located in timing of supplier payments, with significant payments being made just before the year end all of the major retail locations in the countries in which we operate.
Customers seek out GAME rather than just after, as they were in the prior year.
On a like for like basis, our cash position is and Gamestation stores for our specialist teams.
Suppliers value the marketing power of our consistent with last year, and the Group continues to be cash generative with a strong brand presence, store displays and instore theatre.
We are also trialling changes to the balance sheet.
look and feel of our stores, including interactive kiosks, making sure we offer a powerful retail Business development Our market proposition as well as a place to play and interact.
With a record installed base in the UK of over 28 million third generation consoles, the market Global Online: We have transactional local has, as expected, moved towards higher margin software and peripheral products.
language websites in every location in which we operate and in the UK we have three: In the UK, hardware sales declined by over GAME.
Through our eCommerce 26 per cent.
Though still the best selling format, Nintendo Wii revenues were down by over offering we are developing our digital services, led by our well established digital download site 49 per cent using market data, not GAME, compared to exceptional sales in 2008.
Following which now features over 1,000 titles.
We can also be reached through a GAME iPhone app, price cuts, sales of PS3 and Xbox 360 hardware were down by only 6 per cent and 19 per cent our new presence in PlayStation Home the online portal for PlayStation 3 players called respectively.
Sales of higher margin software were down by 17 per cent.
This was again led by GAME Moonbase, and a new social network site called Gamesnation.
A new download site Nintendo formats, with software revenues for Sony PS3 and Xbox 360 formats showing an for mobile phone games is in development, and over the coming months we will announce our increase on those achieved in 2008 source GfK ChartTrack.
plans for other digital arenas.
The manufacturers are focused on producing UK and Ireland We end the year with 677 stores across two innovative new technology for the current third generation of consoles.
This year we expect to brands in the UK and Ireland, and have maintained market leadership despite see more sophisticated motion sensor controllers from both Microsoft, Project Natal, increased competition from supermarkets, Our performance The GAME Group plc 23 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 online retailers and new entrants to Where we sell the market.
In December 2009 we closed 19 As at 31 January 2010 2009 GAME concessions in Borders stores, and since the year end we have also taken the decision to terminate Company owned and concessions our concession partnership with Debenhams and announced plans UK and Ireland to close 18 other stores.
Our strong GAME 423 443 customer base of Reward Card Gamestation 254 253 holders enables us to contact Total UK and Ireland 677 696 customers and transfer the majority of the revenues from these stores to the next nearest GAME or France 199 192 Gamestation.
There will be no Iberia 283 258 material costs from these closures.
Scandinavia 68 66 We continue actively to review our Czech Republic 29 22 UK store base, with a view to minimising store overlap and Total Continental Europe 579 538 maximising opportunities from lease expiries, breaks and rent reviews.
Our Australia 118 101 average lease length of six years for Total International 697 639 our UK stores is an advantage.
By Christmas 2013, we expect the UK Total owned and concessions 1,374 1,335 store portfolio to have been reduced to about 550 stores.
In addition, we are investing to create the leading Franchises pc and video games website and download service in the UK.
France 1 Iberia 5 5 Operationally we have continued to derive benefits from the integration Australia 1 1 of GAME and Gamestation.
We have also rationalised our store and head Total franchises 6 7 office cost base which, in conjunction with the store closures, will result in savings of a further Total operational outlets 1,380 1,342 5 million in each of the next two years.
International We have opened 64 stores outside the UK and closed 7, taking the total to 703 at year end.
In every international location we have grown our market share.
Further information go to: Page 43.
We will continue to open stores in Page 50. International management.
the markets which give us the GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Chairmans statement continued greatest return and can deliver further benefits Whilst we remain mindful of of scale.
We plan to open between 25 and 40 stores this year, which is less than prior years.
the challenging market in which we operate and that Iberia, where we are the market leader, remains our most successful international market, and the current year will be a continues to grow.
Gains in market share and difficult one, the forthcoming margin are encouraging, and we continue to open stores in select locations.
new technology further enhances the profile of the We are the market leader in the Czech specialist retailer.
Republic, and the business is showing good growth and potential for entry into surrounding This, together with our value markets.
driven offer to maintain a In Australia and France, where we are not market market leading position, leader, we are reviewing the store base and brand proposition to ensure we can compete investment in new channels to more effectively and deliver further growth.
market, and our focus on cost In Scandinavia, we maintain the appropriate reductions leads the Board to portfolio and are rationalising the support be confident in the Groups function.
In all of our locations, we aim to support our store model with a leading eCommerce offer.
Treasury and Capital expenditure Our net cash as at 31 January 2010, was 44.9 million compared with 81.4 million in the prior year.
As noted above, the decrease reflects a change in the timing of supplier payments around the year end, and stock holding for January releases.
In the 2010 11 financial year, average net debt is anticipated to be around 60 million 2009 10: 60 million.
The Board is committed to an efficient capital structure and continues to review the dividend policy and a share buyback strategy along with continued organic or acquisitive growth of the business.
We anticipate that our total capital expenditure for the current year will be around 20 million to 25 million 2010: 30 million: 2009: 53 million.
Store openings and refurbishment requirements will cost between 5 million and 10 million.
In addition, we will invest 10 million in Global Online on eCommerce and digital development and Our performance The GAME Group plc 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 information technology, and approximately Employees 5 million on distribution centre infrastructure.
This has been a more challenging year for our employees throughout the Group, and I am The Board and Management grateful for their continued focus and The Board announced today that Lisa Morgan professionalism.
Our people are the heart of has stepped down from her role as CEO to our consumer offer, and it is their dedication pursue other opportunities.
The Board and Lisa and support which helps us to give customers have agreed that this is the right time for a something extra in our stores and online.
new CEO to lead the business through the next stage in its development.
The Board thanks her Corporate Responsibility for her exceptional contribution through her Corporate Responsibility CR is at the heart of 14 years with GAME.
The Board has our operations and strategy.
We recognise that the commenced a search for a new CEO and way we operate within our industry and the pending this appointment has asked Non communities that we share has a direct impact on Executive Director Chris Bell to take up the role our reputation and our brand.
We are continuing of interim CEO.
to develop our CR strategy and stakeholder relationships with a view to ensuring that our In light of the Boards decision to commence behaviour and actions meet the highest standards a search for a new CEO, Terry Scicluna, UK expected by our customers and owners.
Chief Operating Officer has informed the Board of his intention to step down.
He will remain Current trading and outlook with the business through a handover period.
In the first 11 weeks to 17 April 2010, the Groups Responsibility for the UK operating activities will total sales were down by 13.3 per cent and lfl be retained by Martyn Gibbs, former Managing sales were down by 14.4 per cent.
Excluding the Director of Gamestation, who was appointed impact of the launch of the DSi in the prior year, GAME Group Managing Director of UK and Eire lfl sales were down by 9.1 per cent.
Online was in March 2010. down by 3.5 per cent.
This is in line with our expectations for the first part of the year.
In July 2009 Ben White 37 succeeded David Thomas as Group Finance Director, having In the UK and Ireland, total sales and lfl sales been the Groups Reporting and Investor were down by 20.8 per cent and 20.1 per cent Relations Director since 2005. respectively.
In our International business, total sales were up by 1.7 per cent and lfl sales In January 2010, Jean-Paul Giraud stepped down on a constant currency basis were down from the Board after two terms in office, and 3.9 per cent.
Dennis Woodside returned to the USA with Google as VP Americas Operations.
In the same Whilst we remain mindful of the challenging month, we announced the appointment of market in which we operate and that the current Dana Dunne 47, COO of EasyJet plc, and David year will be a difficult one, the forthcoming new Mansfield 56, former Chief Executive of Gcap technology further enhances the profile of the plc, to our Board as Non Executive directors.
This, together with our value driven offer to maintain a market leading The three new Directors bring a wealth of position, investment in new channels to market, experience from different consumer industries and our focus on cost reductions leads the Board and entertainment markets, all of which will to be confident in the Groups future prospects.
We thank the Directors who have left us for their service and contributions to the Groups direction and growth.
Peter Lewis Chairman 21 April 2010 GAME.
