Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 02 CHAiRmAns stAtEmEnt More customers have frequented our pubs and Tim Bridge Chairman restaurants and enjoyed our own-brewed ales than ever before and this is testament to the dedication and drive of our people.
Results Board Summary of chairmans statement In another year of challenging conditions, we After serving on our board for eleven years as have once more delivered successful trading managing director of Pub Partners, David Elliott We have grown our revenue by 3.1% performances across our businesses.
I am pleased left us at the end of January.
The size and scope to a record level of 984.1m to report that we have grown our revenue by of our tenanted and leased pub business grew 3.1% to a record level of 984.1m.
While our significantly under his responsibility and I would Our healthy cash generation has enabled operating profit was 2.3% below last year at like to express my thanks to him for the contribution the board to recommend a final dividend 211.3m, our profit before tax and exceptional he made to the company.
payment of 15.6p per share items was up 3.8% at 123.0m.
The earnings per share figure of 43.4p is 18.7% below last Towards the end of the year the board took the Altogether, we acquired 28 properties, years, principally because of the higher number decision to reduce its size.
This was precipitated for a total consideration of 67.4m of shares following the rights issue.
by the fact that we had two managing directors who were members of the board and three During the year, we sold 105 properties Dividend who were not and we wanted to achieve parity for 27.2m, against a combined book Once again, our healthy cash generation has in the management structure.
Justin Adams and value of 26.2m enabled the board to recommend a final dividend Jonathan Lawson agreed to step down from the payment of 15.6p per share.
This will take the board at the end of April, but their responsibilities total dividend for the year to 21.5p per share, for Brewing Company and Local Pubs remain 2.4% ahead of the adjusted dividend per share exactly as they were.
The dividend cover of 2.0x is in line with the boards policy.
The final People dividend will be paid on 13 September 2010 to I would like to thank everyone for the role they those shareholders on the register at the close have played in achieving another successful year.
More customers have frequented our pubs and restaurants and enjoyed our own-brewed ales Acquisitions than ever before and this is testament to the During the year we took the opportunity to dedication and drive of our people.
purchase three small packages of high quality pubs, situated in attractive locations in England Specifically, I would like to thank the many and Scotland.
Altogether, including single sites, thousands of Greene King employees who work we acquired 28 properties, all of which are across the country in our pubs and restaurants, freehold and being run under management, playing a vital role in demonstrating high quality for a total consideration of 67.4m.
We are standards in the marketplace.
They should feel very pleased with their trading performance proud of their efforts in helping us to trade post-acquisition.
Since the year end, we have successfully through two difficult years of acquired a further six outlets for 7.9m.
Disposals We have also continued to dispose of our non-core assets.
During the year, we sold Tim Bridge 105 properties for 27.2m, against a combined Chairman book value of 26.2m.
30 June 2010 As throughout this document, profit figures are shown before exceptional items.
Overview Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 03 We operate, rent and lease pubs and restaurants throughout England, Wales and Scotland.
With our base in Suffolk, we serve over Northern Scotland 1,800 communities throughout mainland 4% Britain.
Our place at the heart of those Central Scotland communities is as important to us as our 9% reputation with our shareholders for consistently delivering industry-leading results.
Borders 1% North East 2% Yorkshire Lancashire 5% 4% Midlands East 17% Wales and West 24% London 3% 19% South South West 12% 1% Our primary objective is to build the best pub and beer business in Britain.
We seek to create shareholder value by delivering organic growth across our divisions.
The strategy is driven by the following key elements: using our retailing prowess to deliver G outstanding value, service and quality to our customers in our pubs and restaurants: a commitment to both managed G and tenanted pubs supported by a leadership position in brewing: a high quality, freehold asset base G which receives consistent capital and revenue investment: a focus on generating profitable G sales growth for cash generation and attractive returns on capital employed: a broad geographic spread but with G primary focus on the prosperous South East and resilient Scotland: and focused business units, with shared G resources where appropriate, and a flat management structure to ensure flexibility and agility.
