Halfords Group plc Online version 05 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com Chairmans Statement Im pleased to report a successful and exciting year for Halfords delivering a strong financial performance and our first acquisition as a listed company.
This has been a year of significant achievement for Another key element to the success of Halfords this Halfords.
Revenue and profit growth was strong, year has been the tight management of the supply our strategic priorities were pursued vigorously chain.
Inventories have been reduced and sourcing and our first major acquisition was completed.
This and availability has improved.
A further initiative in pleasing performance is testament to the strength the year ahead will be the commissioning in July of of the Halfords brand, our leading market positions a new 320,000 sq.
ft. warehouse and distribution and unique and extensive product offerings and the facility near Coventry.
Significant cost savings will dedication of our colleagues.
be achieved and productivity and effectiveness improved when fully operational.
On a comparable basis revenues grew by 4.6% against the backdrop of a very challenging trading David Wild, our Chief Executive Officer, and his Dennis Millard environment.
A healthy margin expansion was very experienced executive team have driven the Chairman achieved and proactive initiatives saw our cost growth of Halfords in a year of significant change base reduce and productivity increase.
As a result, and pursued our four point strategy with vigour and strong growth in both underlying earnings before tax precision.
We will continue to do so and the aim of of 26.7% and in earnings per share of 24.8% was this strategy is to deliver growth in earnings of 15% achieved.
Importantly, cash generation was strong per annum over the medium term.
The marked and the Groups financial position remains very sound.
increase in shareholder value over the year is the most cogent measure of our achievement and a These results and confidence in the future prospects firm endorsement by our shareholders.
I would like for Halfords has enabled the board to maintain to thank my board for their role in the continuing its progressive dividend policy.
A final dividend success of Halfords and their support and counsel in of 14.0 pence per share has therefore been my first year as chairman.
recommended which would amount to a total of 20.0 pence for the year.
This represents an increase On behalf of the board, I would also like to thank the of 25.8% over the dividend of 15.90 pence paid 9,300 loyal and dedicated Halfords colleagues in the last year.
store network, head office and distribution centres who have responded so positively to the needs of our In February 2010, we completed the acquisition of customers and to the many initiatives implemented Nationwide Autocentres Nationwide for 75m, this year.
I extend a warm welcome to our 1,500 effectively funded out of free cash flow generated in Nationwide colleagues and am heartened by their the year.
Nationwide has a network of 224 servicing dedication to service excellence.
The excellent results and repair centres throughout the UK.
The intention for the year just ended are testament to the hard work is to re-brand the business as Halfords Autocentres and enthusiasm of the entire Halfords team.
and to continue the expansion of our servicing and repair network by adding c. 80 outlets over the next Since the beginning of the new financial year, the three years.
Acquisitions will be a key component of trading environment has remained challenging.
recent change in UK government and the precise nature and timing of their measures to reduce After a thorough review, it was decided to close government spending, and the impact this will have our 7 Central European stores.
The case for further on trading, is still uncertain.
We have nonetheless expansion into this region was considered to be drawn up our plans on the assumption that conditions unattractive with weak end markets and severe will remain tough.
Last year we faced similar difficulty in sourcing the quality sites that would challenges and prospered this year we will continue be necessary to lay down a meaningful footprint.
to build on Halfords unique market-leading positions.
Furthermore, it was felt that the Groups resources could be better employed by investment in our Dennis Millard activities in the UK market.
Chairman 10 June 2010 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction 06 Capability to drive value Markets Brands Markets and Brands Page 8 Page 10 Products Car Maintenance Car Enhancement and Services Page 16 Page 18 Page 20 Channels Stores Autocentres Page 26 Page 28 Page 30 Colleagues Systems Supply Chain Page 34 Page 36 Page 37 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7
