Directors report Business review: chairmans statement return to groWth people better equipped to win in the market conditions of today.
Our business has an inherent agility All these investments position us extremely well to capitalise on the next phase of growth.
Combined with the This year our strategy is focused on driving growth.
In the investments we have made we are international markets we will expand our business through well positioned to capitalise fully organic replication of our operations, building greater scale in our existing business and entering a number of exciting new markets on the improving market conditions.
which we believe have high potential.
In the UK, we will retain our focus on strengthening our market-leading position by driving efficiencies and building market share to ensure the business We entered the year facing the toughest markets on record is well positioned to capitalise as trading conditions improve.
with most parts of our business contending with reductions in demand of more than 40%.
Against this background, our business dividend achieved a good level of profitability, accruing the benefits of the Our dividend policy is designed to support a sustainable dividend early action taken to reduce the cost base in the previous year.
across the economic cycle, whilst also delivering a progressive dividend during periods of growth.
After taking account of the In the first half of the year, consultant numbers were reduced improving trends in the second half of the year, the Boards further giving an overall reduction of 32% from peak levels.
confidence in the outlook, and the strength of the Groups balance As we moved into the second half of the year, most of our sheet, the Board proposes to hold the final dividend at last years markets started to recover and we rapidly responded by level of 3.95 pence.
This would result in a full year dividend of reinvesting, particularly in Asia Pacific where we increased 5.80 pence 2009: 5.80 pence.
the headcount by 17% during the second half.
As a result, we achieved a considerably improved performance in the people second half of the year and the Group returned to year-on-year The past couple of years have been particularly tough for our growth in the fourth quarter.
people with many individuals having to take on additional roles and responsibilities as we have taken the measures necessary to Whilst earnings per share for the year decreased by 58%, navigate the downturn.
However, these difficult times have been we consider this to be a solid performance against a difficult met at all levels with a level of commitment and determination of backdrop.
Our business has been thoroughly stress tested over which I am extremely proud and on behalf of the Board I would the last 18 months and I am pleased to say that we have not only like to offer our thanks to all our people around the world.
demonstrated that our business is built to withstand very tough market conditions but we have also delivered one of the leading More encouragingly we began to increase our headcount in financial performances in the sector.
the second half of the year, bringing over 200 new people into the business.
I welcome our new recruits and I am extremely Whilst we took all the actions necessary to manage the business confident that the high level of professionalism and enterprise in the downturn we have been extremely careful not to lose within the business will provide a strong environment within sight of our long-term objective of capitalising on the tremendous which they can develop and build their careers.
structural growth opportunities present in our markets.
We protected our operational footprint by maintaining our corporate responsibility geographical coverage and the specialisms offered in each of Our approach to corporate responsibility covers a broad range our markets.
As reported to you last year, in spite of the difficult of philosophies, activities and standards which are provided in conditions in our markets we ring-fenced our investment in three detail later in the Annual Report.
Again this year we have, as an key areas: organisation, undertaken numerous events to raise money for charity.
We organised a fundraising day for the UNICEF Haiti 1.
IT development programmes Appeal across our global business.
In the UK our Beat the moon 2.
Brand enhancement event saw over 100 employees climb, cycle, canoe and run across 3.
the Lake District for our designated UK charity, Action For As discussed in more detail later in the Annual Report, each of Children.
These represent just two of many events which took these is now beginning to deliver value with the major IT change place during the year and which raised over 290,000.
This programme concluding, the brand roll-out focused on expertise characterises and pays testament to both the generosity and as our key differentiator now featuring in all our markets and our spirit that exists within the organisation.
06 Hays plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance remuneration report Governance Financial statements oft investigation On 30 September 2009, The Office of Fair Trading OFT issued Since joining the Board in 1998, its decision, finding that Hays Construction & Property business in the UK had breached competition law in the period October I have witnessed the transformation 2004 to November 2005.
After cooperating fully with the OFT, of the Group into a focused Hays was fined 30.4 million.
Whilst the investigation related to an isolated matter arising from the conduct of a single employee professional recruitment business who is no longer with the company and affected only a small part with an increasingly global footprint.
of our UK Construction & Property business, we were incredibly disappointed to find ourselves involved in such an investigation and I can assure you the Board has taken the findings of the investigation extremely seriously.
Immediately on learning of Business evolution specialisms the investigation, we considerably strengthened the Groups compliance and training in this area, and implemented a detailed training programme for all key employees.
However, we also 38 17 consider the level of the fine to be both arbitrary and wholly FY92 FY01 FY10 disproportionate to the activities to which it relates, and hence we are currently appealing the decision.
summary Business evolution countries As a shareholder, this is the first major recession during which you have been able to assess the resilience of our business model.
This has been particularly demonstrated by our ability 39 28 to defend profitability in the first half of the year and then focus on identified areas of growth in the second half.
The inherent FY92 FY01 FY10 agility and flexibility of our business model, combined with our investment detailed above, position us to capitalise on the improving market conditions in nearly all our markets.
As announced on 15 July 2010, I shall be retiring at the Annual General Meeting in November and handing the reins to Alan Thomson.
Since the announcement I have spent much time with Alan and he has an outstanding set of skills combined with the personality to lead Hays to even greater success.
Since joining the Board in 1998, I have witnessed the transformation of the Group into a focused professional recruitment business with an increasingly global footprint.
Today, we are emerging from one of the deepest recessions of modern times and Hays, led by Alistair and his executive team, is well positioned to capitalise on the exciting opportunities for growth available in our markets.
On a personal note, I have greatly enjoyed my time in the business.
I have had exceptional support from the Hays team and the Groups advisors and I do sincerely wish everyone all the success that is so richly deserved.
bob lawson Chairman Before exceptional items.
Hays plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 07 Directors report Business review: market drivers substantial market opportunity the multiplier effect increasing job velocity and cyclical groWth People are changing jobs more frequently, which creates a greater As positions are filled, new vacancies demand for our services.
are automatically created generating a multiplier effect on demand.
Hence increasing flexibility economic growth has a leveraged impact on our business.
demands Increasing demand by employers and structural skills employees for flexible employment shortage is driving longer-term growth in the temporary placement market.
Skill shortages means businesses are increasingly using our services increasing to help fill highly-skilled roles.
deregulation cultural changes Deregulation, particularly in Increasing awareness and willingness Continental Europe, is opening to use specialist recruitment services up new markets for our services, in sectors and countries that, generally making it easier for us historically, have not been familiar to operate and grow.
08 Hays plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance remuneration report Governance Financial statements net fee track record market opportunities The Hays professional Our international markets are recruitment business has at early stages of development achieved growth in 16 out of with substantial long-term the last 19 years, with over 95% growth ahead of them.
of this growth being organic.
NET FEES M MARKET OPPORTUNITIES 900 UK 800 GERMANY 700 FRANCE 600 JAPAN 500 SPAIN 400 BRAZIL 300 BENELUX 200 CANADA 100 Hays net fees 0 Country population 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Hays view the country population as a useful indicator of the long-term potential market size in each country.
embryonic international markets Only around 20% of professional and skilled jobs in the international markets are filled by recruitment groups.
PROFESSIONAL In many countries, for example RECRUITMENT GROUPS Japan, a job used to be for life.
Now people are changing job more frequently, particularly INTERNAL CORPORATE HR DEPARTMENTS the younger generation.
christine Wright Managing Director, Japan Hays plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 09
