Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 02 chairManS StateMent Dear Shareholder I am delighted to be commenting on corporate governance in this years Annual Report.
The past year has seen the continued review of governance standards and practices.
the 2010 code These industry reviews have been set in train The 2010 Code, introduced in June 2010, by the financial crises of 2008.
A number of applies to Heritage with effect from 1 January key themes have emerged from these reviews 2011.
As a result of the new Listing regime, including the necessity for continued focus which was introduced in April 2010, these on risk, Board effectiveness and executive new code provisions apply to all companies remuneration.
As a Board we are mindful of with a Premium Listing of equity shares, our obligations in these areas.
Michael J. hibberd which Heritage has, regardless of whether they are incorporated in the UK or elsewhere.
Our aim as a Board is to embrace best chairMan Two principal conclusions have been drawn by thinking in corporate governance practices.
the Financial Reporting Council the FRC It is important for us that governance and following its review of the Combined Code.
responsible business practices are a way of Firstly, more attention needs to be paid to doing business rather than an isolated exercise following the spirit of the Code as well as its and this is underpinned by how our Board letter.
Secondly, the impact of shareholders operates.
Heritage has in place a corporate in monitoring the Code could, and should, governance framework which supports be enhanced by better interaction between an enterprising management team whilst the boards of listed companies and their managing risks that are inherent in running shareholders.
To this end, the FRC assumed an international business.
The open and responsibility for a UK Stewardship Code that effective communication which exists between will provide guidance on good practice for our Executive and Non-Executive Directors is investors.
The Nomination Committee will be one of our strengths that enables us to actively considering, as part of its general review of the monitor activities and to make informed Board, requirements of diversity, specifically decisions in a decisive manner.
gender, introduced by the 2010 Code and the implications of the recently published Davies As previously reported, we have made Report concerning the representation of progress in the last two years towards women on company boards.
achieving full compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code.
There UK StewardShip code are now only two areas of non-compliance We recognise that the introduction of the which are detailed later in this report and UK Stewardship Code by the FRC in July which the Board believes are not appropriate 2010 provides a means of enhancing the for the Company to apply at this time for the quality of engagement between institutional reasons set out.
Several of our major institutional shareholders have already In our report we also review the new published statements on their own compliance requirements of the 2010 Code, which applies with the UK Stewardship Code.
to the Company from 1 January 2011, the UK Stewardship Code and the UK Bribery Act.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 03 cUrrent policy on bribery the UK bribery act We are resolutely opposed to bribery and The UK Bribery Act will become law at the corruption in whatever forms they may take.
Guidance from the Gifts or entertainment may only be offered to government has recently been published a third party if they are consistent with usual with the overriding principle that companies business practice in the relevant territory, are should adopt a risk-based approach to modest in value, and cannot be interpreted as application of the UK Bribery Act.
Heritage is a form of inducement.
currently obtaining legal advice concerning how the legislation will impact on the Group.
It is Heritages policy that sales of the Groups In addition, in preparation for this change, products or services, and purchases and Heritage has charged Paul Atherton, CFO, services from suppliers, are made solely on the with the responsibility to oversee how this basis of price, quality, performance, value and law will impact Heritage.
This will include for the benefit of the Group.
Sales, purchases, overseeing: or award of licences should never be made as the result of giving or receiving inducements in a review of the government guidance: the form of gifts, money, entertainment from the conduct of specific processes which third parties or favours in any other form.
are indicated within the guidance: a review of Heritages current policies It is Heritages policy that employees should and systems with respect to bribery, code not accept gifts, money or entertainment from of conduct, whistle-blowing and other third party organisations or individuals, where relevant policies for both employees and these might reasonably be considered likely contractors: and to influence business transactions.
Gifts, the development and enhancement of other than trivial ones of low value, should these policies, if required.
In a culture where such an action might cause offence, the gift should I support an open and constructive dialogue be declared to the Company and, if practical, with all of our shareholders on governance, donated to an appropriate charity.
strategy and executive remuneration and welcome any feedback.
