Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 % CHAirmAn's stAtement A stronG PerformAnCe in 2010, HiKmA onCe AGAin deLivered A stronG PerformAnCe, inCreAsinG revenUe By14.8% And diLUtedeArninGs Per sHAre By 25.2% samih darwazah Non-Executive Chairman 6 Section One: How have we performed?
1 HIKMA FTSE 250 FTSE 350 PHARMACEUTICALS PHARMACEUTICALS PLC & BIOTECHNOLOGY 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 20 40 JAN 06 JUL 07 JAN 07 JUL 08 JAN 08 JUL 09 JAN 09 JUL 10 JAN 11 HIKMAS TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETU RN FROM JANUARY 2006 % Our success is underpinned by our diverse Our reputation for quality and high service We made significant progress on a number offronts in 2010.
We delivered very robust business model, which combines our extensive levels has increased our potential for further presence and experience in the Middle East growth in the US market.
This has given us organic growth in revenues and profits.
We announced the important MSI acquisition in and North Africa MENA markets, a strong theconfidence to expand our operations in business in the US generic market and a theUS through an agreement to acquire the the US and transactions in both Algeria and Tunisia.
The strength of our global, diversified growing global Injectables business.
US injectables business of Baxter Healthcare, In 2010, the MENA pharmaceutical market Multi-Source Injectables MSI.
This acquisition, business model has enabled us to deliver an excellent performance and we are confident continued to grow at a pace well above the expected to complete in April 2011, will global average.
Rising life expectancy and transform our global injectables business by that the business is positioned to deliver giving us greater scale and reach.
We have continued growth in the short, medium changing lifestyles are creating new healthcare needs, particularly for the treatment of diabetes aspirations to be a global leader in generic andlong term.
injectables and believe that bringing together and cancer and increasing demand for pharmaceuticals.
MSIs broad product portfolio, strong sales platform and customer relationships with We expect the present turbulence in the MENA will improve the living standards of Hikmas growing pipeline and leading manufacturing facilities in Europe, is an thepeople in the region, driving increased affluence and greater government support extremely powerful combination.
samih darwazah Non-Executive Chairman The Board is recommending a final forhealthcare services.
We remain committed to the region and to continuing to play a dividend of 7.5 cents per share approximately 4.7 pence per share, which will make a keyrole in improving healthcare standards by providing high quality affordable medicines.
dividend for the full year of 13.0 cents per share, an increase of 18.2% on 2009.
Our expanding presence in the US and Europe complements and strengthens our Theproposed final dividend will be paid on26May 2011 to shareholders on the activities in MENA, providing access to differentmarket opportunities, technologies, register on 15 April 2011, subject to approvalby shareholders at the Annual products and customers.
At the same time, ourbusinesses in the US and Europe are General Meeting.
benefitting from ourMENA manufacturing capabilities and associated cost synergies.
