HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6 Chairmans statement The Group has delivered a further year Opportunities to create real value in digital I am pleased to report that the results for of improved financial performance, are scarce for all involved, not least because the Group for the year ended 24 April 2010 led by HMV UKs continuing transformation saw a 17.7% increase in profit before tax and of widespread competition from the free from a one-dimensional retailer to a illegal market.
We therefore welcome the exceptional items to 74.2m, on revenue broader entertainment brand.
In addition, which grew by 3.1% to a record level of arrival onto the UK statute books of the in another active year, we have set out a Digital Economy Act, which introduces 2,016.6m.
Our adjusted earnings per share clear three-year strategic plan and made penalties for repeat copyright infringement.
rose by 13.8% to 12.7p, and the Board has significant moves in live music and in digital.
This should also ultimately benefit our joint recommended a final dividend of 5.6p per The one area of disappointment was in venture with 7digital, a leading digital media Ordinary Share.
Together with the interim the financial performance of Waterstones, company in which the Group acquired dividend of 1.8p per share, the total dividend but we acted swiftly to appoint a new a 50% stake in September 2009 for for the year is 7.4p, the same as last year.
management team and address the issues, 7.7m in cash.
This is a long-term strategic The Group continues to tightly manage its and our new strategy is already beginning investment for the Group, with significant costs, particularly those associated with our to have a positive impact.
As we expected, potential beyond powering our own brands predominantly leasehold property portfolio.
there has been no let up to the significant in digital.
We are pleased with progress Our average lease length in the UK is now changes that are taking place in our markets, since the acquisition.
under seven years, and 42% of our estate and we will continue to take a realistic A number of the strategies that have been has a lease expiry within five years, providing view about how these are likely to impact successful at HMV over the past three years us with greater flexibility to aggressively our business and the steps we must take are now being applied to Waterstones.
It is manage property costs and, where to adapt.
We know that we need to be clear that the implementation of our new necessary, our space.
thoughtful and vigorous to address centralised distribution centre for books also these changes, and this is reflected in Our capital structure remains appropriate for adversely impacted performance last year the requirements of our plan.
The acquisition the strategic plan set out by Simon Fox, by disrupting our core strength as a range our Chief Executive, in March 2010. of MAMA Group from existing cash bookseller.
However, we are clear that this resources increased our year-end net debt This year, HMV took maximum advantage remains the correct supply chain for our to 67.6m which, based on the strategic plan of its strength as the only specialist retailer national store network, and the fact that this announced in March, we aim to largely of scale in the UK entertainment market.
is now in place and working effectively eliminate by the end of 2013.
Despite this, our environment remains highly provides Waterstones with a platform from I would like to express my thanks to all of our competitive, with some retail and online which it can rebuild profitability.
competitors prepared to offer many of the teams across the Group worldwide, as well The turnaround of Waterstones is one of as to Simon Fox and his senior management same products to their customers at lossthree pillars of the Groups new strategic leading prices.
Therefore, particularly given team, whose commitment and dedication plan the other two being to continue the have made our progress this year possible.
these changes taking place in our markets, product mix evolution at HMV and to grow it has been and will be continue to be We all know that there is a great deal to do our business in live and digital.
Simon Fox to adapt to the changing markets in which necessary for us to diversify rapidly into outlines this plan in detail over the following new and related retail products, in a way we operate, but throughout the Group pages.
With our traditional retail markets there is a very clear willingness and energy that the powerful HMV brand allows us to changing rapidly we know that delivering this do.
These trends are also evident in our to achieve a successful outcome through strategy is critical, but we firmly believe that execution of the new plan.
I continue International division, where similar we have the capabilities and building blocks measures are being applied.
to be particularly impressed by the real to execute our plans and so create value for engagement of our employees at all levels.
We have also shown that as well as our shareholders.
extending the retail product range the There have been several changes to the composition of the Group Board this year.
HMV brand can successfully stretch beyond traditional retailing.
Following 12 months in Gerry Johnson, an Executive Director and Managing Director of Waterstones, left the a highly promising joint venture with MAMA Group Plc to own and operate live music Company in January 2010, and the Board thanks him for his contribution during his venues, in January 2010 we successfully acquired the entire issued share capital four-and-a-half years with the Company.
We expect our new Live division, including the related ticketing business, to be a significant driver of growth for the Group.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 7 Lesley Knox, a Non-Executive Director 2,016.6m since the Groups IPO in May 2002, retired Total sales of 2,016.6m up 3.1% on 2009 from the Board on 1 February 2010, and I would like to place on record the Boards great appreciation for her outstanding 80.4m contribution and commitment during this Operating profit of 80.4m up 14.2% 2009: 70.3m period.
Philip Rowley succeeded Lesley as Senior Independent Director, and the 17.7% Board was also delighted to welcome Profit before tax and exceptional items up 17.7% to 74.2m 2009: 63.0m Orna Ni-Chionna in September 2009.
She brings enormous experience of working with a wide range of retailing 12.7p businesses, as well as considerable Adjusted earnings per share of 12.7p, up 13.8% on 11.1p in 2009. senior board experience.
Basic earnings per share of 11.6p 2009: 10.8p In summary, the Group has again delivered a year of significant profit growth against 5.6p a backdrop of challenging markets and Final dividend of 5.6p, making a total dividend of 7.4p 2009: 7.4p continuing macro-economic uncertainty.
Waterstones disappointing performance 67.6m issues are being tackled through a clear Net debt of 67.6m plan for the turnaround of this business.
We moved decisively to invest in high quality assets in rapidly growing parts of the entertainment market where there is obvious synergy with our existing business, and have continued to evolve successfully the HMV brand within a changing entertainment market.
Tight controls have been retained over our finances to give a firm footing for our future plans.
We have a clearly focused strategic agenda for the next three years to build on our core strengths as the leading brands in our markets.
Though there is much for us to do to execute this plan, we are confident that through its delivery we can create sustainable value for our shareholders.
