Hochschild Mining plc 04 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 A transformational year Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that Hochschild Mining has delivered a The Companys consistent strong performance in 2010.
What was once again a turbulent year for the global economy was, however, one of the strongest years in history for precious metals, particularly for the silver operational efficiency price which rose 83%.
In this environment, the Company met itsoperational expectations, strengthened its financial position coupled with strong and undertook some key strategic steps which I rmly believe will secure our future growth path and deliver further value for goldand silver prices our shareholders.
The Companys consistent operational efficiency coupled delivered a robust withstrong gold and silver prices delivered a robust financial performance with EBITDA up 59% at $397.7 million and financial performance post-exceptional EPS also up strongly by some 48% to $0.46 per share.
Consequently, the Board is delighted to announce that we are proposing to increase the final dividend by 50% to $0.03 per with EBITDA up 59% at share which reects our strong balance sheet position and the anticipated healthy future cash ows of the Group.
We believe $397.7 million and postthe proposed increase is in accordance with capital availability and our desire to provide a yield to shareholders whilst exceptional EPS also up continuing torespect the growth requirements of the businessand the availability of capital.
strongly by some 48% During 2010, the Board appointed a new management team led by Ignacio Bustamante as Chief Executive officer and Ramn to$0.46 per share.
Bara as Chief Financial officer.
I believe that the realigned Company focus on growth through exploration heralds the beginning of a new era for Hochschild in which our excellent asset base, combined with an immense talent pool, will unlock consistent and profitable precious metal production growth.
The40% increase in our exploration budget to $70 million for 2011 is rm evidence of our commitment to this strategy and ourcondence in the potential of our current project pipeline.
Inaddition, we now have over 70 geologists providing us with thetechnical experience and expertise required to deliver a steady stream of value accretive project opportunities.
Our management team has great confidence in the potential ofthe Company to develop this aggressive exploration strategy and, allied to this, they have promoted a disciplined approach tothe assessment of acquisitions.
In this regard, the key announcements in 2010 were the progression of our 100% owned Azuca and Crespo projects and the acquisition of a controlling stake in the Inmaculada project, all of which are located at the core of our Southern Peru cluster.
5 0% Final dividend of 3 cents per share At a glance Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 05 Also noteworthy was the sale of our stake in Lake Shore Gold Management is also confident that we are in a very strong Corp which represented a 34% gain on our original average position to continue the investment in browneldexpansion at purchase price.
The decision was made in light of our stated our existing mines and to take advantage ofanyvalue enhancing commitment that acquisitions must not only deliver early stage acquisitions and opportunities that arise whichmeet the strict assets, strong geological potential and high value accretion but investment criteria I have described above.
also a clear path to control.
The sale achieved a very profitable We are committed to the safety of all our employees and have return on our investment and has given us the financial strength made good progress during the past year.
In 2010, we reduced to reinvest in our near-term project pipeline.
In addition, our our accident frequency rate by 29% compared to 2009 and 25%investment in Gold Resource Corp, in which we have continue to move forward with the implementation of the safety invested a total of $67 million, is currently valued at management information system jointly developed with DNV.
Nonetheless, it is with deep regret that I report two fatalities in The silver market rose over 70% in the second half of 2010 2010.
We have addressed the underlying safety deficiencies that boosted by strong fundamentals, unprecedented investment led to the occurrence of these tragic events and we continue to demand and renewed focus on silvers value as an alternative view any fatalities as unacceptable.
Whilst the corresponding rise in Hochschilds share On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our entire team price can be explained partly by the buoyant precious metals fortheir continued commitment in 2010 and I am confident market, I rmly believe that an increasingly widespread market thatsuch impressive execution will remain the focus in 2011. acceptance of our shift in strategic focus as well as the positive results achieved to date have also been major factors and will continue to be so in the future.
Eduardo Hochschild During 2011, we can look forward to further crucial steps in the Executive Chairman development of our advanced projects at Inmaculada, Azuca and 28 March 2011 Crespo which in total have the potential to add a minimum of 12million profitable ounces per year to our current production base from the end of 2013.
Above: Geologist at the Pallancataproperty.
Hochschild Mining plc 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chief Executive Ofcers review Chief Executive Ofcers review 07 Growth strategy
