REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Chairmans statement Th e UK home and general merchandise market has experienced reduced levels of customer demand and industry-wide pressures on the cost of goods over the last year.
On all measures, the Group has produced a good result against this backdrop.
Maintaining the dividend, increasing I am also very pleased to welcome Mike Darcey our future investment plans and the to the Board.
Mike is the Chief Operating Of cer announcement of a programme to return of British Sky Broadcasting and joined us as a capital have all been supported by another non-executive director on 20 April 2010. year of strong cash generation.
These points You will read in Terrys statement opposite also re ect the Boards con dence in the how our approach to this last year has delivered Groups long-term prospects.
As part of this, further strong cash generation has led to the Boards Home Retail Group has been facing the challenging recommendation of a 10.0p final dividend, backdrop from a position of operational and which represents shareholder dividend income financial strength.
The Groups broad product maintained at the level of the prior year.
You offerings and low average transaction values will also read how we are now able to move to Oliver Stocken offer measures of resilience.
Our strength and increasing our investment in the businesses, Chairman leadership in multi-channel retailing ensure the more details of which you will nd in the business relevance of our business model by offering true reviews on pages 14-23.
The strong cash ow customer convenience.
Product cost pressures of the Group and the Boards con dence in the have been dealt with by appropriate trading Groups prospects are also leading to a return strategies and our competitive scale advantage, of capital, with up to 150m of shares expected skills and infrastructure in Group-wide sourcing to be purchased over the next 12 months: the operations.
The drive for further cost ef ciencies background and detail to this are covered in the and our overall focus on cash generation has Group financial review on page 28. further protected our position.
Finally, I would note that our dedication to All of this has been delivered by our colleagues, responsible retailing is unwavering, with further with their commitment, effort and passion for progress on waste and recycling, supplier success being a critical element of the strength management and the charitable giving of our of Home Retail Group.
Our achievement is very colleagues, customers and the Company, all much a team effort and I would like to thank covered in the corporate responsibility review the Board, the management team and all our on page 24, and in our online review, colleagues in every part of our business.
Oliver Stocken Chairman Home Retail Group has been facing the challenging backdrop from a position of operational and fi financial strength.
Th e Groups broad product off erings and low average transaction values off er measures of resilience.
8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010
