3 Chairmans statement With a clear and focused membership-only strategy and a strong pipeline of business development opportunities, homeserve remains well positioned for the future.
J M Barry Gibson Chairman We are pleased to announce that homeserve has delivered another year of double-digit profits 3 growth with earnings per share growing by 14% driven by the strong performance of our UK 1 and international operations.
revenues for our continuing operations have grown by 21% to 2 369.0m and profit before tax by 13% to 100.6m on the back of continuing good levels of customer and policy growth with over 10.3m policies from 4.7m customers worldwide.
strategiC developments during the year we successfully completed the exit from our UK emergency services business allowing us to focus all of our resources on the growth and development of our membership businesses.
We announced the acquisition of sFg in France in may 2009, an important step in the development of our european appliance warranty business and, after the year end, the acquisition in the Us of the service contract business from national grid energy services.
We have also expanded our global marketing footprint with the addition of a number of new affinity partners including dyson and gB oils in the UK, agbar in spain and piedmont gas in the Us.
after the year end, we also announced the further expansion of our Us footprint with the signing of long-term affinity partner agreements with national grid Usa and southern California gas.
homeserve overvieW 4 annual report & accounts 2010 our focus remains on delivering long-term value for shareholders through a combination of strong organic growth on the back of the continuing development of our existing membership businesses and selective acquisitions.
resUlts share sUB-division 1 in the year, revenues grew by 21% to 369.0m a 5 for 1 sub-division of the share capital of the 2 2009: 304.3m and operating profit by 13% to Company is proposed, the intended effect of which 104.4m 2009: 92.3m with operating margin is to seek to improve the liquidity and marketability reducing in line with our expectations by 2.0 of the ordinary shares of the Company by percentage points to 28.3% 2009: 30.3% reflecting reducing the market price of an ordinary share the planned increase in customer acquisition and increasing the number of shares in issue.
the marketing in the UK and continued investment in Board will seek approval from shareholders for the business development across all our membership proposed sub-division at the Companys agm on 3 businesses.
earnings per share grew by 14% to 30 July 2010.
Board Changes i am pleased to say that we have delivered against there were a number of changes to the Board the targets we set ourselves at the start of the year during the year.
on 26 June 2009, martin Bennett including 3% customer growth and a retention was appointed Chief Financial officer following the 2 rate of 82.5% in the UK, a maiden operating profit departure of Jonathan simpson-dent and on in the Us and the continued expansion of our 31 march 2010, Brian Whitty, executive Chairman international household footprint.
since 2004 retired from the Board.
as a result, i was appointed non-executive Chairman on 1 april the business continues to be very cash generative 2010 and ian Chippendale was appointed senior delivering a cash inflow from continuing and independent director.
the Board is extremely discontinued operations of 73.4m 2009: 92.2m grateful for the significant contribution to the representing cash conversion of 93.4% 2009: development and growth of the business made by 115.7%.
our balance sheet remains strong with net Brian over the last 14 years not only as Chairman of debt at the year end of 52.9m 2009: 34.0m and homeserve but also before that as Chief executive 150m of banking facilities in place until december of south staffordshire group plc.
2012 providing us with significant flexibility to take advantage of selective acquisition opportunities as people they arise.
these results and the fulfilment of the Companys future potential are only made possible by the dividend dedication of its people, whose expertise and the Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.5p commitment remain our most important assets.
per share bringing the total dividend for the year on behalf of the Board, i should like to thank to 44.0p 2009: 35.5p, a year on year increase them for their contribution to another set of of 24%.
this reflects the Boards confidence in excellent results.
the continuing strength and resilience of our membership businesses following the exit from UK emergency services.
the Board intends to continue to follow a policy of growing future 3 dividends in line with earnings per share growth.
5 oUtlooK We have made a positive start to the new financial year with all of our membership businesses performing well and the recent announcement of two new large affinity partner deals in the Us.
our focus remains on delivering long-term value for shareholders through a combination of strong organic growth on the back of the continuing development of our existing membership businesses and selective acquisitions.
With a clear and focused membership-only strategy and a strong pipeline of business development opportunities homeserve remains well positioned for the future and we look forward to another year of strong growth.
J m Barry gibson Chairman 25 may 2010 homeserve 6 BUsiness revieW annual report & accounts 2010 prodUCts people Want all over the world people experience every household in the world experiences home emergencies and need our services.
7 h Ho ow m ev eo ew r, n th e ers s e e a vr e ern yw t here SW ha e ro in ffg b er a e d st p edirc a ac te tid ce Foc ou usri n pg o rodn o ucts rg a a rn e ia c ccessible, c ho a vv ee t red ro b u yb m le fi osn t d ho in m g e to s meu m pbe pors rt g hip row set rh we n vice, eed gro uw nd th erstandable and free our ia nn su d p ran ac ye in p g f olio cir a r es, a end lia b itls e to s givi h n a gr e b hom es e t p ow ra nc etrs ice.
We thic s m uste oa m ne s s rs e frto tim ng u the p o wu or rry o trfa ted ne ha sm rd a n to.
T fio a nd d ad re re lia ss t ble h, is cfa as n i t, m 2p 4ro hv oe o ur a uc r b ceu ss si n to esses owa n o ndp in ec ra ot n io five nni s ie n n nce e w of home a gfa fo p i rdn t abh lee m trad ae rke sm ta, w n ie a n arn e be y l xpe ear rt n tin rad g fe ro spe m e opl ac eh ot in her, cou en m tr e ie rg se.
W nce w ies ia ll c nd o n re sp id a e ir r s. e ta m ke in rg g o enu cy r p. tr ha od tu sc w ts t heo n re ew aan nd we a emerg lse o w ncya.
nt to create buying local service delivery w co eu cn otm rie es i. W n. e are... homeserve in a box to help capabilities and policy books us set up in new countries.
