Chairmans statement We will continue to use cash to It gives me great pleasure to report Looking ahead, we have an eliminate the remaining legacy that Howden Joinery Group Plc, as opportunity to transform the scale property liabilities, as well as the business formally became known of Howdens.
There is evident scope to invest in Howdens future on 15 September, delivered an for more than our current total of growth and development.
490 depots, as well as for enhanced Despite persistent economic performance in existing depots and uncertainty, we achieved an increase further improvements to our supply of 47% in profit before tax and a chain.
We, and our customers, have further increase in gross margin from the appetite for growth.
Healthy autumn So Howdens is in good health trading further improved the Groups but it is still emerging from a period cash position and contributed to a of corporate reconstruction, the net cash inflow of 32.6m.
Against costs of which, although diminishing, this background, the Group was able continue to be material.
With this in to complete 12 property deals during mind, and cognisant of the differing the year, further reducing our legacy cash requirements which we are likely property liabilities.
We have worked to face in 2011, we will continue to hard to diminish these liabilities, use cash to eliminate the remaining and it is encouraging to note that legacy property liabilities, as well as net annual rent and rates in respect to invest in Howdens future growth of legacy properties have been cut and development.
The Board is mindful of its responsibilities to investors as The results we are reporting reflect well as of the need to balance the strength of Howdens business the various requirements of the model, which is focused entirely on growing business.
We are committed the kitchen and joinery requirements to the resumption of the dividend, of small builders.
This model, which and intend to pay a dividend in harnesses the entrepreneurial respect of 2011, set initially at a instincts of employees throughout modest level, reflecting the continuing our business, has proved sufficiently demands on our resources including flexible to cope with restructuring, the attractive investments we can recession and a kitchen market make to expand the business and that is constantly increasing in reduce our legacy liabilities.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 In May 2010 we welcomed Tiffany Hall, a wide variety of local initiatives, The strategy Howdens continues Interim Group Marketing Director they made over 2,100 individual to pursue is fundamentally sound.
at BUPA and formerly Head of donations to charitable projects The business is well placed to grasp Marketing at British Airways, to the and worthwhile causes.
the opportunities that will arise.
We do not expect much improvement She succeeded Peter Wallis, who in the economic outlook in 2011, and had served on the Board since 2001. cost pressures on the business are Peter leaves with our thanks for his likely to increase.
Notwithstanding valuable contribution and insight these challenges, the Board is of the during his tenure.
view that the strategy Howdens Howdens has a culture that continues to pursue is fundamentally is centred on treating people sound.
The business is well placed to fairly and doing things well.
This grasp the opportunities that will arise, culture underpins our approach and the management team has our to good governance and rigorous full confidence in its ability to lead management in all our activities.
your company to continued success.
Our strong health & safety record continues to improve and we have Will Samuel also made good progress in respect Chairman of our environmental responsibilities.
Last year we were pleased to gain 2 March 2011 09 the new Carbon Trust Standard, the successor to the Carbon Trusts Energy Efficiency Accreditation which we have held continuously for over ten years.
I would like to highlight the contribution of Howdens employees, whose untiring commitment to supporting our customers is mirrored by the considerable energy they devote to supporting the life of their local communities.
