Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 frt AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 3:01 PM IMAGES TO BE CHECKED Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 02 Chairmans Statement A robust balance sheet has allowed us to make the largest acquisition in the Companys history and to expend capital in both existing and new geographical areas.
Richard Hunting, Chairman The Group has produced excellent Our year was in some respects Our Well Intervention operations results in the year showing strong overshadowed by the tragic blowout also had fine results, with National recovery from the challenges of in the Gulf of Mexico, with Coupling and Welltonic, both of 2009.
Profit before taxation from consequences for the Group.
On the them recent acquisitions, making continuing operations and before negative side, a moratorium on deep excellent contributions.
exceptional items in 2010 was water drilling in US waters affected 50.0m 2009 38.5m, a 30% our market in that area.
On a positive Outside the Hunting Energy Services increase.
note, it will become more important portfolio, Field Aviation and Gibson than ever that deep water wells are Shipbrokers world leaders in their A robust balance sheet has allowed fully specified with high quality own fields had profitable years in us to make the largest acquisition in equipment precisely the market we what are unpredictable markets.
the Groups history and to expend serve.
capital in both existing and new The very significant capital geographical areas.
We will continue We have designed, developed and investments made in the past two to seek compatible opportunities for patented important new tubular years are already bearing fruit, and further expansion.
connection products which are we continue to add facilities in new ideally suited to horizontal drilling and expanding markets such as the The worldwide patterns of and to exploitation of shale plays North Sea tubulars management hydrocarbon pricing and production enhancing still further our premium segment and in China.
identified last year have been connector ranges.
Strong crude oil prices Earnings per share for continuing have led to a boom in drilling for that The Well Construction activity of our operations, before exceptional items, commodity, while historically low principal operating company, Hunting were 24.7p, representing an increase prices have not prevented a rush Energy Services, recovered strongly of 40% on the previous year.
We are towards exploiting the new methods from a difficult 2009, aided by fine recommending a final dividend for of releasing unconventional gas, performances from our US shale gas 2010 of 8.3p per share, payable on especially in the United States.
operations and by an excellent start in 1July 2011 to shareholders on the our hands by Innova, the downhole register on 10June 2011, giving a Western economies have only slowly electronics company acquired in total of 12.0p for the year, a 14% regained their composure after the September 2010. increase.
traumas of 2008 but Asia has expanded strongly such that total In the largest market segment, Well During the year, Iain Paterson, world energy consumption is higher Completion activities once again a non-executive Director of the than seemed remotely likely in the performed very well with good Company since 2000, retired.
The dark days of the financial implosion.
results from all geographical areas.
Board thanks him for all his fine work C o m P A n y B U S I N E S S f i n a n c i a l o v e R v i e w R E V I E W GOVERNANCE s t a t e m e n t s Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 frt AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 3:01 PM IMAGES TO BE CHECKED IMAGES TO BE CHECKED Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ComPAny oveRview 01-05 03 Business Review 06-27 GoveRnAnCe 28-44 FinAnCiAL stAtements 45-108 particularly in the roles of Senior My thanks go to all our staff for the Independent Director and Audit Companys continued progress.
Since the close of 2010, we have appointed David Barr, a United States citizen with a strong background in the oilfield engineering industry, to the Board as Richard Hunting, CBe a non-executive Director.
David Chairman spent most of his executive career 24 February 2011 with Baker Hughes and brings with him a wealth of experience.
Your Company has had a fine year in an industry currently in a strong growth phase.
New hydrocarbon resources, urgently required to meet world demand, will be extracted from deep water and from unconventional onshore plays.
We are well placed to meet the requirements of these new frontiers and look forward to the future with confidence.
