cHaIrmans sTaTemenT Dear Shareholder, we are pleased with the outstanding increase in the volume of devices shipped which incorporate our technologies.
Throughout the year there has been significant growth in interest and commitment to the widening breadth of our portfolio.
Group revenues have increased by 26% to 80.9m, resulting in a record year for both revenue and profits.
The Technology business has continued to perform strongly, offering intellectual property IP which provides our partners with unique competitive advantages.
Over 180 mobile phones and personal media players incorporating our technology have been announced or are shipping.
Our customers have now shipped over 300 million Imagination-based devices in numerous form factors.
Pure has maintained its role as market leader and improved its financial performance considerably.
Digital radio is becoming more pervasive internationally and cloud based connected content and services are rich areas for Pure to exploit.
Pures strong, attractive and innovative roadmap will enable it to further strengthen its market position and continue its international expansion.
This year we are pleased to announce 12 important licence agreements involving 23 silicon cores and many new customers.
as the spread of our technologies continues we are seeing a significant increase in deals, both with major players and with smaller companies.
Our customers are in key emerging markets, which now also include tablets, digital cameras and green smart power.
The Group was profitable, with adjusted pre-tax profit rising sharply by 166% to 13.3m before share-based remuneration expenses and gain on investment which compares to 5.0m for the previous year.
cash resources have strengthened again to 29.4m at the end of the financial year, up from 14.6m the previous year.
The investment we make in research and development continues to be as vital as ever to our company and the output is showing a real return.
The overall economic situation, while it improved somewhat over last year, must still be viewed with some concern.
However, we are optimistic that in spite of some expected consumer restraint we have a widening range of licensing prospects, growing design wins and are building momentum in our chip volume ramp-up.
The success of the Group and its exciting progress is driven by our employees constant desire for success and commitment to quality.
Their exceptional efforts are, as always, highly appreciated.
Thank you for your keen interest and continued support.
