Chairmans Statement Central to everything wedois our priority of creatingsustainable value forour shareholders.
Iain Napier Chairman We delivered strong growth in earnings and dividends withour focus on organic sales growth, cost optimisation and effective cash utilisation continuing to create value for our shareholders.
Results and Dividends We grew our tobacco net revenues by 3 per cent and ouradjusted operating profit by 5 per cent to 3.1 billion.
Reported operating profit grew by 8 per cent to 2.5 billion.
Our adjusted earnings per share has risen by 11 per cent to178.8 pence.
Basic earnings per share was 148.5 pence 2009: 65.5 pence as a result of movements on derivative financial instruments providing commercial hedges with gains of 210 million compared to losses of 660 million in 2009.
We also made considerable progress in reducing our adjusted net debt, which was down by 1.5 billion to 9.3billion 2009: 10.8 billion.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 60.0 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 84.3 pence per share 2009: 73.0 pence, representing an increase of 15per cent.
This dividend will be paid on 18 February 2011, with an ex dividend date of 19 January 2011.
Our Strategy for Growth We seek to create value for our shareholders by delivering sustainable organic sales growth, complemented by our focus on cost optimisation and effective cash utilisation.
Wedrive sales growth through our brands, our unique totaltobacco portfolio, our market footprint and our people.
2010 Performance Overview and Achievements Sustainable Sales Growth: During the last year we have enhanced our focus on sales growth and aligning our brand KPI Adjusted Earnings Per Share 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 06 07 08 09 10 4 106.2p 118.8p 136.9p 161.8p 178.8p Integral to our strategy is our responsible approach to the and product portfolio to evolving consumer preferences.
manufacture and sales of our products, from the sourcing Priceincreases and a number of strong cigarette and fine oftobacco leaf to the way in which we market to consumers.
cuttobacco performances more than offset the challenging environment in some markets.
It is vital that all our employees have a deep understanding Economic conditions have impacted consumer spending of our behaviours and business principles the beliefs and inSpain, the USA, Russia and Ukraine such that our overall values that underpin all business actions and decisions.
cigarette volumes were down by 4.2 per cent.
However we During the year we revised and enhanced our existing delivered excellent growth in fine cut tobacco with our volumes Codeof Conduct to strengthen our governance processes up by 8.7 per cent and, when our fine cut tobacco volumes and have been communicating this across the business.
are combined with our cigarette volumes, our overall white Board Changes stick equivalent volumes were down just 2.9 per cent.
Gareth Davis retired from the Board in May and was succeeded as Chief Executive by Alison Cooper.
Under Our global strategic brands comprise around 22 per cent Gareths leadership Imperial Tobacco has become one of ofour overall cigarette volumes and performed well.
theworlds leading international tobacco companies and, Wedelivered 3 per cent volume growth in our premium onbehalf of the Board and all our employees, I would like brand Davidoff and 2 per cent growth in West.
Gauloises tothank him for his outstanding contribution to our success Blondes also made positive progress, with volumes up by and wish him a long and happy retirement.
4per cent in the second half of the year following temporary supply disruption in the Middle East earlier in the year.
Charles Knott, Non-Executive Director, left the Board in Ourregional and local brands also delivered some strong Julyand Jean-Dominique Comolli, Deputy Chairman, left the performances including JPS which grew volumes by Board in September.
I would like to thank both Charles and 13percent.
Jean-Dominique for their valuable contribution and wish them well for the future.
Cost Optimisation: We have delivered our Altadis acquisition synergy targets and have continued to drive efficiency In Summary improvements throughout the business.
In 2010, we Finally, my thanks to our employees for their collective delivered 110 million incremental synergies bringing the commitment to delivering high performance.
They have total to 300 million.
We remain on track to deliver our embraced our enhanced sales focus and driven strong previously announced synergy target of 400 million results, particularly given the challenging environment in cumulative synergies by the end of our 2012 financial year.
Effective Cash Management: We have generated 2.0 billion Looking ahead, I believe that we are in a strong position.
of free cash flow before dividend payments of 0.8 billion Central to everything we do is our priority of creating and made excellent progress in reducing our adjusted net sustainable value for our shareholders.
The combination debt, which was down 1.5 billion to 9.3 billion 2009: ofour people, our brands, our market footprint and our 10.8 billion as at 30 September 2010.
We maintained the unique total tobacco approach offers us many opportunities improved working capital position we delivered last year and to build long-term sustainable growth across our business.
our cash conversion was 97 per cent, towards the top end of our target range of between 90 and 100 per cent.
Corporate Governance and Corporate Responsibility The Board remains committed to the high standards of corporate governance that are rightly expected of us and Iain Napier that underpin the responsible way we run our business.
Chairman KPI Total Shareholder Return About this Report 600 Reflecting our belief that operating in 500 aresponsible manner is simply part of 400 how we do business, this years report 300 incorporates our Corporate Responsibility Imperial Tobacco 200 Review to provide stakeholders with acomprehensive overview of our 100 activities and achievements.
