Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Ken Hanna, Chairman Inchcape has delivered robust earnings growth in 2010.
Following a year of gradual global Capital expenditure Approach to governance and economic and industry recovery I am Corporate Responsibility CR Whilst, in agreement with our brand pleased to report strong results for 2010. partners, we continued to keep our We continue to focus on the importance Our robust earnings growth is a testament discretionary capital expenditure to a of good governance and apply the to the strength of our broad geographic minimum, we have made several strategic Combined Code and other relevant portfolio and the success of our resilient investments in 2010, opening two sites in guidance for listed companies in our business model together with the decisive emerging markets.
Integrating socially actions taken by management since the responsible behaviour into every aspect start of thedownturn.
of how we operate and define ourselves Board remains important to us.
In 2010, we Following two and a half years with the Performance established the CR Board committee, Group, Graham Pimlott stepped down as Group sales have increased by 5.4% to responsible for the strategic direction a Non-Executive Director and Chairman 5.9bn for the full year to 31 December of the Groups CR programme that of the Audit Committee on 31 October 2010, benefiting from the start of the continues to build a global approach 2010.
Simon Borrows joined the Board global recovery and our operational to making responsible economic, on 6 October 2010 and was appointed focus on growing market share and environmental and social behaviour Chairman of the Audit Committee, taking aftersales.
On a like for like, constant intrinsic to the way we work.
I would like to thank currency basis, sales increased by 3.1%.
Graham for his contribution during his People Our decisive response to changing time with the Group.
market conditions in the last quarter On behalf of the Board, I wish to express of 2008 and early 2009 generated my sincere thanks to all our colleagues Dividend annualised cost savings of approximately across the Group for their outstanding In line with our disclosure in this years 70m.
We have kept our overheads flat commitment and support throughout 2010.
Interim Report, the Board is pleased to in 2010 as we offset the cost of inflation recommence the payment of a dividend with productivity improvements.
We Outlook and is recommending the payment of a announced a further restructuring plan final ordinary dividend for the year of 6.6p.
Due to the uneven nature of the global in the third quarter of 2010 to lower our No dividend was paid or recommended recovery we remain cautious regarding cost base by an additional annualised in 2009 in light of the challenging trading the short term outlook in some of our 25m through reducing our headcount conditions at that time.
However, Inchcape is well and a disposal of 10 underperforming positioned to benefit from the global sites.
We have exceeded our expectations Share consolidation recovery in most of our markets and, disposing of 15 sites and the expected as such, we expect to deliver a solid At the Annual General Meeting held on annualised cost base reduction will now performance in 2011.
This latest process has resulted of Inchcape plc ordinary shares was in an exceptional restructuring charge of approved by shareholders.
The purpose 21.9m in the fourth quarter of 2010.
We of the share consolidation was to reduce are continuing to keep tight cost control the total number of shares in issue measures in place throughout the Group.
following the Rights Issue undertaken Profit before tax and exceptional items in 2009 and to increase the likely price of 214.0m was 38.0% higher than 2009 Ken Hanna, of the Companys shares to a figure and adjusted earnings per share rose Chairman more appropriate for a listed company by 18.1% to 32.0p adjusted for the of its size and nature in the UK market.
On a statutory Following the share consolidation there basis, profit before tax was 192.1m, are approximately 460m Inchcape 40.5% above 2009.
Cash generated from ordinary shares in issue, reduced from operations during the year was 274.3m approximately 4.6bn in 2009.
See online which represents a 134.7% conversion of www.
4 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
