Chairmans Statement I am pleased to announce a strong set of results for 2010, which again demonstrate the underlying strength of the business, especially renewable revenue streams, high margins and strong cash generation.
Derek Mapp, Chairman Over the past three years, the world has experienced some of the worst economic conditions ever and I am delighted at how well the Informa business model has performed.
This is in part due to the changes that we have consciously made to the information we provide as well as the way we provide it and in part to the diversification into new product areas and geographies.
Informa was a different Company ten years ago to what it is today.
It was mainly a business to business events business, with advertising based publishing and like many businesses then, we had minimal digital content.
In 2010, some 70% of adjusted operating profits came from information publishing, 41% of our revenue is electronic and 36% of our revenue comes from subscriptions.
In fact in 2010 only 2% of revenue came from advertising.
Importantly, the 2004 merger between Informa and Taylor & Francis T&F created a business with a balance between cyclical growth and predictable subscription revenues.
The T&F academic business, which in 2010 accounted for 35% of adjusted operating profit, is a market leading business of the highest quality with particular strength in the areas of humanities and social sciences.
T&F which was a nil premium, non cash transaction, with its subsequent improvement in profit levels, has added considerable value to the Group.
Although the T&F merger was fundamental, our objective of creating a high value knowledge and information business has been achieved thus far through a combination of both organic and acquisition led growth.
The three major acquisitions of PJB Publishing Scrip in 10 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 12 21 03 2011 17:33 Informa will remain high quality, high margin, highly cash generative, highly digital and increasingly resilient.
2003, IIR Holdings IIR in 2005 and Datamonitor in 2007 From a trading perspective, our businesses benefited in have grown substantially and have all improved the quality 2010 from improving economies, especially in Asia, Latin and organic growth potential of the enlarged Group.
America, Australia, Germany and Scandinavia.
Southern Europe especially Italy and Spain remain weak, whereas In 2011, the Company continues to invest in organic the US business was sluggish, with perhaps a more growth, both in existing and emerging markets.
We sustained recovery towards the end of the year.
From will also look to make fill-in acquisitions which both a sector perspective, most of our areas grew in 2010, generate value and add to the quality of the business.
especially financial events, which did of course decline These will be in sectors where we already have core during the financial crisis.
More difficult areas were real strength and where we can achieve revenue and cost estate and property and some of our financial data synergies.
Quite separately, we will consider assets for businesses, which relied heavily on bank subscriptions.
disposal and in so doing we can use the funds generated to add overall to shareholder value, either through We learned much during the downturn, including improving the balance sheet, or through re-investment.
how efficient our business is, how resilient our market leading products are, how important our top brands are and how flexible our people and our cost base are.
This helps us to grow the operating margin every year and yet still invest for the future.
We also recognise that where our products were not market leading they would suffer in a downturn and as such we have reduced the scale considerably of our smaller events and also consolidated some publications.
This process will continue and already in 2010 some 50% of our events gross profits were delivered by our top 200 leading events.
Informa will remain high quality, high margin, highly Looking forward, our emphasis will remain on growing cash generative, highly digital and increasingly resilient.
sustainable shareholder value, investing for growth Our investment organically and through acquisition will and improving the resilience and visibility and as push us into emerging markets where we anticipate a such the overall quality of our business.
From an organic wider range of growth opportunities.
With an efficient and acquisition perspective, we will look at assets balance sheet and a highly committed team, we which are digital, content rich, have proprietorial certainly have an exciting few years ahead.
I would like information, with high levels of repeat business and to thank everyone inside Informa for their hard work and events with geo-cloning opportunities.
commitment both now and over the past 12 months and Emerging markets will be increasingly important wish them continued success for 2011. and during 2010 we added to our events portfolio in Brazil and established new events in Saudi Arabia and Vietnam.
An acquisition at the end of 2010 brought us Derek Mapp 12 new large exhibitions in Australia, which, together Chairman with our existing business there, makes us one of the leading Australian events companies.
Looking forward to 2011, we have more opportunities in the UAE and the Far East where we already have a base but also in new emerging markets such as Turkey.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 11 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
