Chairmans Statement Results Intertek has delivered strong full year growth in 2010, ending the year with revenue of 1,374.2m, an increase of 11% over the prior year.
Excluding acquisitions revenue growth was 10%.
Operating profit was 206.5m, up 11% over the prior year.
1 Adjusted operating profit increased to 227.5m, up 9% and our adjusted operating margin was 16.6%.
Excluding acquisitions, adjusted operating profit grew by 9%.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share were 80.7p, up 11% over last year and diluted adjusted earnings per share were 89.4p, up 10%.
Dividends An interim dividend of 9.3p per share 2009: 8.2p was paid to shareholders on 19 November 2010.
The Directors will propose a final dividend of 18.8p per share at the Annual General Meeting on 20 May 2011, to be paid on 17 June 2011 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 3 June 2011.
If approved, this Vanni Treves will make a full year dividend of 28.1p per share 2009: 25.5p, Chairman an increase of 10%.
Acquisitions We are continuing to invest and completed seven acquisitions during The Group delivered annual the year, for consideration of 41.2m 2009: 29.7m.
Details of these acquisitions are given in the Operating Review by division and revenue of 1,374.2m, an in note 22 to the financial statements.
Our strategy of growing key industry sectors through acquisitions is unchanged and with our increase of 11% over the strong financial position we will continue to make targeted bolt-on acquisitions and to evaluate strategic acquisitions to increase prior year, driven by growth shareholder value.
in activity in all divisions.
The Board On 26 April 2010, Lloyd Pitchford joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer.
Lloyd spent ten years with BG Group plc, one 1 Adjusted operating profit of the largest UK publicly listed companies, holding the role of Group Financial Controller for the past five years.
Lloyds extensive was 227.5m, up 9% international and management experience with large, complex and growing organisations will assist Intertek to explore exciting and earnings per share were opportunities across global markets.
I am delighted to welcome Lloyd to the Board and am confident that he will be a strong 89.4 pence, an increase contributor to Interteks continued success.
1 Before separately disclosed items which are detailed in note 4 to the financial statements.
com On 31 December 2010, Mark Loughead stepped down from Quality and integrity his role as Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director on the Quality and integrity are central to our proposition to customers, Board after a successful 22 year career with Intertek.
Mark will and therefore form the heart of Interteks culture and processes.
remain with the Group to ensure a smooth handover of his We have embedded our values across the organisation and are responsibilities before retiring during 2011.
On behalf of Intertek, continually reviewing and reinforcing our internal processes to I would like to thank Mark for his dedicated service and for the ensure compliance.
The Intertek Compliance Code and Code of significant contribution he has made to the Group as Chief Ethics provide practical guidance and instruction for employees Operating Officer, as a Director and as Chief of the Oil, Chemical and there are email and telephone hotlines so that staff may & Agri division previously.
He leaves the Board with our gratitude report anonymously any inaccurate or unethical working practices.
and best wishes for his retirement from the Group.
Our strong focus on compliance provides assurance to our customers that our reports and certificates are valid and accurate.
On 14 February 2011, Intertek announced that Michael Wareing and Alan Brown will join the Board as Non-Executive Directors Our people on 15 April 2011.
Michael Wareing is currently a Non-Executive Our mission to support and add value for our customers is delivered Director and Audit Committee Chairman at Wolseley plc, a Nonthrough over 27,000 people across Intertek worldwide.
The dedication Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman designate at of our employees to customer service and going the extra mile has Cobham plc and is Chairman of the Iraq Advisory Board for G4S helped us to retain business in the face of increased competition.
Michael has major international and board level knowledge We constantly strive to improve our capacity to attract, develop and gained during an extensive global career up to senior partner retain the best people who share in the mission, values and success level at KPMG.
His last position at KPMG was as International of the Group.
Chief Executive Officer, a position he occupied for four years.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome all new employees Alan Brown is currently Chief Executive Officer of Rentokil Initial to Intertek and to thank all our employees around the world for their plc, a position he has held since April 2008 when he was brought commitment to making 2010 another successful year.
in to lead a new executive management team.
Alan spent 25 years at Unilever PLC where he rose through a variety of finance roles Summary in the UK and Europe and then general management in Taiwan, Intertek produced strong results for the year with a notable Hong Kong and China.
His last four years were as Executive acceleration in the second half.
As the year progressed and market Chairman of Unilever China.
Following this, Alan returned to the conditions improved, we invested in both people and assets to UK as Chief Financial Officer at Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, capture this recovering growth.
taking a leading role in the divestment of the Company.
I am very pleased to welcome two such high calibre individuals to the Intertek Board.
Environmental impact Intertek is committed to playing an important and positive role with respect to climate change and the environmental impact of products and processes.
We advise our clients, as an integral part of our business, on many issues which have an impact on the environment, such as the chemical content of their products and packaging, the energy efficiency of their equipment, CO2 emissions and the disposal of harmful substances and waste electrical products.
We also provide advisory and consultancy services to help retailers and manufacturers design their products and services to comply with current and future environmental regulations around the world.
Through our services we help our clients to minimise the environmental impact of their products and processes for the benefit of society as a whole.
We are also mindful of our own impact on the environment and details of our energy saving initiatives are given in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
