Chairmans Statement Dear shareholder A s the world emerges from In my first statement to you since my appointment as Chairman recession, considerable on 17 July 2009, I am pleased to report that Invensys has emphasis is going to be continued to make progress during the most difficult economic placed upon efficient use of conditions in decades.
Despite the recession, we improved ouroperating performance, further strengthened our financial resources, especially energy position and have continued to invest significantly in research and water, and on safe, and development, restructuring, and sales and marketing so environmentally friendly that our divisions are well prepared for the recovery.
It is a credit transportation of both to Ulf Henriksson and his management team that Invensys has managed to bridge the recession and is now in a very strong people and freight.
position to benefit as we begin to see economic recovery in some regions and industries.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman I have had the opportunity to visit many of our facilities around the world and meet many of our people.
I have also, along with the rest of the Board, reviewed our three-year strategic plan forthe Group and the divisions and our corporate governance procedures.
I am pleased to confirm that Invensys has the highest standards of governance, backed up by our recently revised Code of Conduct, and we have the right plans in place to continue along our path of growth.
As the world emerges from recession, considerable emphasis is going to be placed upon efficient use of resources, especially energy and water, and on safe, environmentally friendly transportation of both people and freight.
Each of our three divisions is able to make a significant contribution in these areas, and I am confident that Invensys will be a leader in its markets.
| 10 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The Board Outlook There have been several changes to the Board during the Looking forward, we are positive about the outlook based pastyear, with the appointment of three non-executive directors upon our large order book and our current view of economic with significant experience of running major international conditions.
We expect the Group to continue to deliver companies, particularly in the technology sector.
improved performance in the current year, with the phasing ofprofit similar to last year.
Francesco Caio and Dr Martin Read joined the Board as non-executive directors on 18 July 2009.
Francesco was At Invensys Operations Management, we expect revenue formerly Chief Executive of Cable & Wireless and Martin growth due to our large order book in combination with the wasformerly Chief Executive of LogicaCMG.
Paul Lester, anticipated market improvements later in the year.
ChiefExecutive of VT Group, was appointed to the Board At Invensys Rail, we expect continued revenue growth due to on1January 2010.
These three new directors, together with our large order book.
However, margins are likely to be slightly BayGreen, Michael Parker and Pat Zito, give us the breadth lower due to an increased proportion of revenue coming from oftalent to support the executive team in their efforts.
large contracts in the early stages of execution.
Our new Chief Financial Officer, Wayne Edmunds, joined At Invensys Controls, we expect the market to recover, especially the Board on 1 June 2009.
He also comes from a technology in North America, and as volumes increase we expect margins background, having spent 17 years with Lucent Technologies.
I would like to thank the two directors who retired at last years Corporate costs will increase by 8 million as we invest for the Annual General Meeting for their contribution to Invensys over next phase of the Groups development, particularly in our several years: my predecessor as Chairman, Martin Jay and capabilities to execute bolt-on acquisitions and in Jean-Claude Guez, formerly Chairman of the Remuneration businessdevelopment.
We anticipate that exceptional restructuring charges in the Dividend current year will be around 1.5% of Group revenue.
After the payment last year of a dividend to shareholders for the first time since 2003, the Board has decided to continue with its progressive dividend policy forthe year, reflecting theBoards confidence in the future ofthe Group.
Following the payment of an interim dividend of 1.0pence pershare, the Board has recommended the payment of a finalcash dividend for the year of 2.0pence per share which, Sir Nigel Rudd subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Chairman Meeting on 28July 2010, will be paid on 6August 2010 to shareholders on the register at 25June 2010.
This brings the total dividends payable in respect of the yearended 31 March 2010 to 3.0pence per share, twice thepayment of 1.5 pence per share in respect of last year.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
