Chairmans statement In 2004, when I was appointed as AMECs Chairman, the subject and a review of how effective the meeting we were beginning the migration away from being a has been.
The aim is to change the focus of board typical construction business and had begun to meetings to enable more discussion and debate on appreciate the increasing importance of oil and gas to key strategic matters.
Since then, we have embraced many I was delighted to welcome Neil Carson and Colin Day beneficial changes.
The AMEC of today is clearly to the board as non-executive directors on 31 August focused on the provision of services to the oil and gas, and 14 October respectively.
Neil brings his knowledge minerals and metals, clean energy, water and of running and growing a successful business in environmental sectors and it is consistently delivering Johnson Matthey Plc: Colin a depth of financial its financial targets.
Adjusted profit before tax in 2010 experience, mostly recently as Chief Financial Officer of 280 million was more than double that of 2004, and at Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc.
Both have already profit margins have increased almost four fold.
contributed substantially to the discussions and This focus, the commitment and skills of AMECs decisions of the board.
Sadly, in May 2010 Martha 22,000 employees, and the strength and depth of our Hesse retired after three terms of service.
Her insight customer relationships, have all helped to position the is much missed.
Peter Byrom retired on 9 February company for achievement of its growth strategy: Vision 2011 having completed two terms as a non-executive 2015 described in more detail on page 6.
We are grateful for his contribution both as started well, achieving organic growth in each of our a director and as Chairman of the audit committee three divisions despite challenging markets.
We also over the past six years.
He has been succeeded in continue to achieve these results in a manner this role by Colin Day.
consistent with our values: we have retained our As you will be aware, I myself have decided to retire position as Oil Equipment and Services sector leader with effect from our Annual General Meeting on in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index: were once more 5 May 2011.
The search for my replacement is well one of Canada's Top 100 best employers: and we underway see page 40 for further details.
I have received a number of other accolades for our health, greatly enjoyed my involvement with AMEC over the safety and environmental performance.
AMEC also past 15 years and particularly with its employees, made charitable contributions of 553,000, both by who have been both supportive and enthusiastic as matching our employees fundraising efforts in their they embraced the challenges we have faced.
AMEC is local communities and in support of relief efforts in a very different business now than it was in 1996 when Haiti, Chile and Pakistan.
Further details on all these I joined and its success owes much to their dedication.
items can be found in our 2010 sustainability report.
Some things do not change.
In the 2004 Annual Report, I have been fortunate to be surrounded by board I said that I remained confident that AMECs highly colleagues who understand the need for openness skilled and dedicated people will grasp the opportunity and debate as the risks and rewards of Vision 2015 are to build on our strengths, expand our service, deepen assessed and as performance is managed, measured our client relationships and create value for all our and reported.
As a team, we need to understand how stakeholders.
The delivery since then has proved the the company intends to generate value for its truth of these words and I believe they remain equally stakeholders and as Chairman, it has been my task valid going forwards.
It has been an honour to be to ensure the board has the right balance of skills, Chairman of your company.
experience, independence and knowledge of the company.
During the year I led a number of initiatives Jock Green-Armytage to prompt the board to consider proactively its role and Chairman effectiveness and as a result, this is now a continuous process and not just an annual review.
We now 3 March 2011 conclude each board meeting with a discussion on 4 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010
