ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 12 Overview Chairmans statement A good financial performance Group performance Board and management The Group has delivered a good financial There have been no changes to the Board performance in its lesser biennial year that this year.
The Group have decided to also reflected the effects of the recession adopt early the new provisions on annual although latterly included the beginnings re-election of Directors as recommended of a recovery.
The Groups revenues by the recently issued 2010 UK Corporate for the year were 113.5 million 2009: Governance Code, as such, all Directors 116.7 million and headline pre-tax profits will offer themselves for re-election at the were 36.6 million 2009: 45.8 million.
Reported pre-tax profits were 31.3 million 2009: 41.5 million and fully diluted The Board and executive management have earnings per share were 9.8p 2009: 12.7p.
worked to build a stronger management team and to facilitate the development Ian Paterson The balance sheet is strong and the Group of talent within our business.
This Non-executive Chairman finished the year with net cash balances investment is necessary to enable the of 23.0 million 2009: 23.1 million after Group to fulfil its strategy for business making investments in new businesses of expansion.
ITE is full of committed over 20 million over the last 12 months.
individuals, many of whom have demonstrated their loyalty and expertise Development of ITEs business over a number of years and I would like The Group has continued to work on to thank the 822 staff of ITE throughout expanding the geographic profile of its the world who have worked so hard for business.
In November 2009, ITE made the Group in a year where the economic initial steps to establish an exhibition environment has been challenging.
business in India through the purchase of a small exhibition organiser.
We now have a Dividend local office infrastructure in India through The Board has maintained its progressive our operational centre in Delhi.
We have dividend policy through the recession and also expanded our presence in Turkey by is recommending a final dividend of 4.0p acquiring a significant portfolio of events per share, which together with the interim from our former 50% owned associate dividend of 1.7p per share makes a full business.
In April, the Group acquired three year dividend of 5.7p per share 2009: Aquatherm events in Ukraine, Kazakhstan 5.5p.
The Board aims to maintain dividend and Azerbaijan which supplement the cover of two times over the biennial cycle, existing Moscow event of the same and this dividend therefore reflects both brand.
These investments are all in line the Groups strong cash position and the with the Boards strategy of developing Boards confidence in the Groups future.
international brand strength and expanding its emerging market presence.
Operating performance Overview and Divisional summary Governance Financial statements ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Dividend per share Revenue 5.
7p 1 13.5m Outlook The Board remains The Groups markets have all been confident of the future impacted by the recession over the last two years.
Moscow, which is our most prospects of the significant market, has seen improving Groups business.
trading conditions and next years results should reflect the financial effect of this strengthening recovery.
Our other CIS markets are lagging Moscows recovery, but are now showing signs of recovery.
In our other markets, Turkey, India and the UK, trading conditions are either stable or improving.
This positive outlook must be tempered by the risk that the global economy remains uncertain and could cause this recovery to stall.
At 26 November forward bookings for 2011 were 74 million which, on a like-for-like basis, represents growth of more than 10% over last years bookings at the same time and is in line with the Boards expectations.
The Group has a strong balance sheet and excellent market positions in places with good growth opportunities and is well positioned to expand both organically and through acquisitions.
The Board remains confident of the future prospects for the Groups business.
Ian Paterson Non-executive Chairman 29 November 2010
