02 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Chairmans statement by Archie Norman Over the next ten years the global market will change beyond recognition The transformation imperative Dear Shareholder In embarking on a transformation of I arrived as Chairman a little over a year this extent there are a number of critical ago as ITV emerged from one of the most ingredients for success.
The first of these troubled periods in its history.
Since then is strong leadership.
It is therefore very we have embarked on a far reaching important that Adam Crozier joined us at programme of change.
the end of April as Chief Executive.
Under his unswerving direction the foundations The problems ITV experienced in 2009 of change have already been laid and were in part an inevitable consequence momentum is starting to build within of high gearing and recession.
The top team has been they showed up in sharp relief our rebuilt and a new talented leadership dependence on a narrow and increasingly team is now in place.
volatile source of revenue in free to air television advertising.
And they highlighted Second we require clarity of vision and a longer term trends which pose serious clear road map for change.
Transformation challenges for the traditional television requires a sense of time and place because model.
Over the next ten years the global it is vital that everyone at ITV knows what market will change beyond recognition.
is required of them and where we are in In the short term we can improve our the journey.
Therefore the team has set operating capability and performance.
out a five-year transformation plan that In the long term we face a has been briefed to shareholders and to transformational imperative.
That plan is set out with great lucidity in this report.
03 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements We are very much in the first phase which Changed Board and Governance In the short term involves building the foundations and Since I arrived we have reduced the size we can improve our fixing the basics.
It is vital we build the of the Board and repositioned its focus momentum for change but unless we do and activities.
As we embark on the journey operating capability the hard things first the vision is irrelevant.
ahead it is important we have a very engaged Board close to the business who are able to and performance.
Third we need the financial and operational both support and challenge the executive space to deliver change.
That is why over In the long term we team.
I am delighted that Lucy Neville-Rolfe the last year we have been explicit with has joined us and believe we have a strong face a transformational our shareholders, our people, and our non-executive team with immense breadth other stakeholders that we are focused on of experience and outlook.
imperative delivering value over five years.
Of course we want to do the best for shareholders Since I last wrote to you John Cresswell each year.
But there are, sometimes painful has left the Board.
His steadfast leadership trade offs to be made.
For instance in helped guide the ship through stormy waters.
technology and the creative process and Rupert Howell, who has also departed where necessary we will make the right played an important role in sustaining decision for the longer term.
our advertising revenues in difficult times.
And Baroness Usha Prashar has stepped Finally we fully recognise that change is down as a non-executive and Chairman not just technological or financial.
It requires of the Remuneration Committee.
We are a different high performance culture, grateful to all of them for their contribution.
organisation, and way of working.
And our We now have a very strong team which success depends on attracting and retaining people of extraordinary creative ability.
is mindful of its responsibilities not just in helping deliver the strategy but also At ITV we have very talented people.
But they have been immersed in a historically in overseeing financial controls and risk management.
successful model that is now challenged.
That is why we have been bringing in new Uncertain outlook skills and new people to enable our existing Whilst the advertising market remains in teams to adapt to a new way of working growth at the time of writing we are not and the leadership team has already depending on this continuing.
The bounce made changes to how we communicate, back takes it to levels in real terms only interact, assess performance, recruit and slightly above those achieved in the early reward people.
If it teaches us anything it is that Strong financial performance volatility can work both ways.
However The financial performance of the last year we have a leaner business and one that is has been encouraging and has given us a immeasurably more robust with a stronger much stronger position to be able to make balance sheet and strong leadership, a clear the right decisions and investments required plan for the journey ahead and better for the long-term future of ITV.
should not provide any excuse for taking Therefore the Board plans to restore the the pressure off: the most difficult payment of a dividend at the interim challenges are those that appear over the results in July 2011. horizon.
Recovery in the advertising markets is welcome but every day we see portents of the landscape shift that will take place over the next decade.
Nevertheless the last years performance was strong and tight financial management, cost reduction and working capital controls over the last two years have converted market recovery into Archie Norman a substantial reduction in our debt.
