Chairmans statement Chairmans statement David Tyler, Chairman The Board is pleased with the performance of Sainsburys over the last year.
We delivered good profit growth and underlying earnings per share were up over 12 per cent.
Our progress in achieving strategic objectives has been very encouraging, especially in increasing our selling space and widening the range of our complementary non-food offer.
At the same time, the values of the organisation have continued to underpin everything we do, with our continued focus on customer service and responsible trading.
Our colleagues Our customers welcome our emphasis on freshness and I was delighted to be invited to become Chairman of the value and consequently we now serve over 19 million business last autumn and would first like to thank my customers a week which is one million more than last year.
predecessor, Sir Philip Hampton, for the major contribution Accelerating the growth of complementary non-food he has made to Sainsburys during his five years at the ranges and services is a significant area of focus and Company.
Since 2005, sales have grown by around non-food sales are now growing at three times the rate of 1 billion each year and profits have more than doubled.
We are reaching more customers through additional channels by opening 51 new convenience stores and by My most significant observation since joining is associated developing our online home delivery operation which is now with our 150,000 colleagues.
I have been hugely impressed available to nearly 90 per cent of UK households.
We also with their enthusiasm and their commitment to deliver successfully launched our non-food online business in the a great experience for our customers.
Growing supermarket space has been fundamental Sainsburys values and work well as a team.
I would like to in helping us to grow market share to 16.1 per cent of the thank them all for their hard work in the last 12 months and UK grocery market.
Our store pipeline has been built up their commitment over an extended period to Making steadily over the last five years.
This year we have Sainsburys Great Again.
As a result of their success, increased gross store space by 6.8 per cent and we are colleagues have been able to earn a share of a record on track to deliver 15 per cent growth in the two years to bonus this year of over 80 million.
Active property management underpins our strategy.
The value of our freehold property estate is now Market background estimated at 9.8 billion, up 2.3 billion from last year.
2009 10 was a year of recession in the UK.
In this very uncertain environment, consumers have naturally been Our values determined to shop around for more value.
Some 2009 10 was an award-winning year with Sainsburys commentators believed that Sainsburys would undervoted the Supermarket of the Year by the Retail Industry perform in these conditions.
We received recognition for our commitment to customer appeal and flexibility in meeting customer needs excellent customer service and the outstanding quality of has enabled us to grow our market share and profitability our offer.
Our customers expect us to trade responsibly during this period.
and ethically without compromising on quality or value.
We are proud to be the worlds largest retailer of Fairtrade Our results goods by value which reflects the importance we attach The commitment of our colleagues and our focus on to sourcing goods with integrity.
We are also pleased to customers has been key to the delivery of another strong have been awarded an industry-leading A rating for our set of results despite this challenging economic backdrop.
customer engagement on green issues in the Green to Underlying profit before tax for the year was up 17.5 per the Core?
survey, conducted by Consumer Focus.
cent to 610 million with underlying basic earnings per share up 12.7 per cent to 23.9 pence.
As a result of this Outlook continued improvement in profitability, the Board is Sainsburys is a growing business with a strong balance recommending a final dividend of 10.2 pence per share, sheet, valuable property assets and an improving return making a full year dividend of 14.2 pence, an increase of on capital.
Our strong operating cash flows support our 7.6 per cent over the previous year.
This dividend is covered plans to accelerate the investment programme, delivering 1.68 times by underlying earnings in line with our policy for further trading and property value for shareholders.
dividend cover of 1.50 to 1.75 times.
While we expect that the environment will remain challenging and consumer spending will be under pressure, Strategy and business model we believe our substantial space growth plans, supporting Our strategy is based on five areas of focus which aim to our expanding food, non-food and convenience store improve our profitability through universal customer businesses, alongside our continued focus on productivity, appeal and increased reach throughout the UK.
Great food will enable the business to make further good progress.
at fair prices remains core to our heritage of offering fresh, tasty and healthy food at a competitive price.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 3
