14 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Sir Ian Prosser Chairman JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 15 15 served on the Boards of several established in the FTSE 250 index.
Clearly, we benefit from a very other major companies, such as I know from conversations with strong production base in GlaxoSmithKline, and believe that senior management what a Ukraine, complemented by the this background can aid JKX in its tremendous contribution Lord development prospects in plans for growth.
Fraser made, chairing the JKX Russia and, albeit to a lesser Board with intelligence and great Having been in my position for only extent, in Hungary.
On behalf of the one month at the date of this Board I thank him unreservedly.
release, it is too soon for me to comment on achievements with Dividend which I have had no involvement.
In a period of heavy investment, the Clearly, we benefit from a very Annual dividends declared Board recognises that increased strong production base in Ukraine, pence taxation in Ukraine and delay in complemented by the development start-up of the Russian project prospects in Russia and, albeit to a Held inevitably impacts available cash flow.
Consequently, the Board is 5.0 5.0 4.8 4.4 Although considerable progress recommending a final dividend of 2.6 was made in 2010 on the large pence per share, giving an unchanged redevelopment project in Russia, total dividend for the year of 5.0 pence the Company has experienced delays per share.
The dividend will be paid 2.2 and capital cost increases: the on 24th June 2011 to shareholders on commencement date for production the Companys Register of Members in Russia is now expected in the on 6th May 2011. autumn of 2011.
More significantly, 06 07 08 09 10 a delayed convergence of Russian Outlook domestic gas prices to European The Company is budgeting a strong net-back levels is impacting our increase in production volumes for overall project economics and 2011 with higher oil realisations and consequently we are making an continued increases in gas Earnings per share before impairment provision of $74.6m.
Despite exceptional item basic, cents these benefits, the Company is -12% Commitment to HSEC absorbing substantially increased My predecessor commented production related taxes in Ukraine 54.23 50.89 49.85 on the importance of protecting which it did not bear in 2010 and this 47.97 47.56 and nurturing our people, their will impact 2011 earnings.
communities and the environment, Exceptional Turning to our prospects for 2011, and this is a view which I share item: first gas in Russia in the autumn will 35.18 cents wholeheartedly.
As a resource-based be an important landmark for the company, JKX rightly places great Company.
Ukraine will continue to value on health, safety, provide the backbone of our cash environmental matters and flow and, together with Hungary, also 06 07 08 09 10 community liaison HSEC.
provide us with exploration upside.
In I note that the AIFR All Injury addition, we look forward to entering Frequency Rate figures decreased the fast-growing Ukrainian LPG in 2010 and are well below the market at mid-year and adding value In the short time I have been working industry benchmark.
Furthermore, to our existing gas business.
with the senior team at JKX, I have we were successful in our attempt Finally, I wish to thank our people for been impressed by the management to achieve ISO 14001 Environmental their commitment and expertise over skills and operational potential in Accreditation during the year.
the last 12 months, as well as our evidence.
When I was approached to shareholders for their continuing consider the role of Chairman of JKX Your Board support.
following some 12 years on the My appointment has been the only Board at BP, I was attracted to the change to the composition of the position because the company Board.
I would like to place on record operates in a challenging area of the my thanks to Lord Fraser, whose oil and gas sector, and one where I sterling service of over 13 years saw feel I can use my own experience JKX grow into an established and expertise to good effect.
In operator in eastern and central addition to my time at BP, I have also Europe, and also become
