CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am very pleased to report that, despite facing the most difficult The investment that we make in research and development economic conditions for many decades, Johnson Matthey is vital to the success of our company.
It provides the high performed well in 2009 10.
The group produced underlying technology products and manufacturing processes that enable earnings per share that were only 4% lower than those in us to maintain market leadership and underpins the future 2008 09, which, it should be remembered, was a record year growth of our businesses.
Despite the difficult market conditions for us.
that we have faced over the last few years we have not cut our Our strategy served us well during the downturn.
The board, R&D spend, indeed we have continued to increase it.
We are executive management team and employees at all levels of the increasingly focusing our R&D efforts on developing new company faced the challenges posed by extremely turbulent products that will help our customers to improve their resource conditions in some of our key markets, especially in the western efficiency, reduce energy consumption and waste and make their automotive markets, and took prompt and decisive action to businesses more sustainable.
Apico, which was developed in reduce costs.
However, this was done without sacrificing the house by our world class scientists, will help to deliver many of future growth potential of our business.
Whilst capital expenditure these sustainability benefits to our customers in the methanol was significantly reduced, we continued our investment in new, industry and is a great example of the crucial importance of highly efficient manufacturing capacity to make automotive R&D and innovation to our business.
emission control catalysts in Europe and the United States and As I visit Johnson Matthey businesses around the world I a new plant in China to make catalysts to control emissions of continue to be impressed by the commitment and enthusiasm oxides of nitrogen, or NOx, from coal fired power stations in of employees at all levels for Sustainability 2017, our group wide that country.
We also completed a facility in the UK to programme to make ours a more sustainable business by the manufacture Apico, our revolutionary new methanol synthesis year 2017, the two hundredth anniversary of the companys catalyst which was launched during the year and provides major foundation.
We have set ourselves some very challenging targets performance benefits to customers worldwide.
but given the commitment of our people and the spirit of innovation that is evident throughout the group, I feel confident that Sustainability 2017 will be a great success.
Further details of our progress towards Sustainability 2017 are summarised on pages 29 to 37 and are presented in full in the groups Sustainability Report which will be published on our website in July.
Sir John Banham Chairman 2 - Johnson Matthey
