04 Keller Group plc Chairmans statement Keller faced many challenges in 2010, particularly in the US Dividends and much of Western Europe, where construction markets The Board has recommended a final dividend of 15.2p per share remained depressed.
This solid set of results is therefore 2009 second interim: 14.5p per share.
This, together with the testament to the Groups strategy and to the strong operational interim dividend paid of 7.6p, brings the total dividend for the capability of our businesses.
year to 22.8p, an increase of 5% on the previous years 21.75p.
Dividend cover for the year is 1.9x 2009: 3.6x.
The final dividend The Groups geographic profile has long been a key strength will be paid on 27 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at and we have continued to pursue a strategy of geographic 6 May 2011. diversification in recent years.
The success of this strategy is reflected in these results, which show further progress in Australia This maintains our record of increasing the dividend each year 1 and our developing markets, partially offsetting the impact of since the Companys flotation in 1994, through market cycles.
the severe market and trading conditions in the US and Western Europe.
Overall, 404m 38% of our 2010 revenue came from Strategy Australia and our developing markets, up from 90m 13% five We remain focused on our strategy: to extend further our global years ago.
leadership in specialist ground engineering through both organic growth and targeted acquisitions.
There are three key elements 2 Results to our strategy: Group revenue increased by 3% to 1,068.9m 2009: 1,037.9m.
expansion into new, higher growth geographic regions: The operating margin at this low point in the cycle was 4.1%, acquisition and development of new technologies and compared with the previous years 7.4%, resulting in an operating methods: and profit of 43.3m 2009: 77.3m.
Profit before tax was 39.6m 2009: 74.7m and earnings per share were 44.0p 2009: 78.8p.
transfer of technologies and methods within our current geographic regions.
3 Cash flow and net debt Cash generated from operations was 70.3m 2009: 123.2m, Good strategic progress was made in the year, including: which represented 83% of EBITDA 2009: 109%.
This continued the strengthening of our businesses through the deployment the Groups consistent track record of converting profits into of more resources in regions which offer good growth cash and reflects our strong focus on cash collection and the opportunities, such as India and Brazil: minimisation of working capital.
completion of two acquisitions: Waterway Constructions Despite current market conditions, we have not lost sight of Waterway, a Sydney-based near-shore marine piling the long term, and continue to invest organically in our growth contractor: and Nilex, the leading wick drain contractor markets and in acquisitions.
After net capital expenditure of in the US, both of which add to the Groups wide range 28.6m 2009: 35.5m and expenditure on acquisitions of of technologies: and 23.4m 2009: 34.7m, net debt at the end of the year stood the extension of our range of technologies in some of our more at 94.0m 2009: 78.8m, which represents 1.1x EBITDA.
established regions, such as the transfer of Getec monitoring systems from Germany to the UK and the introduction of Towards the end of the year, the Group completed the refinancing grouted stone columns in Singapore.
of its main central banking facilities, replacing 145m of committed facilities due to expire in the summer of 2011 with a new 170m revolving credit facility, expiring in April 2015.
With these extended facilities, the financial position of the Group remains very healthy and we continue to operate well within the associated financial covenants.
1 Our markets in Eastern Europe, North Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Brazil.
2 2010 results are stated before a 21.8m goodwill impairment charge, but after redundancy and other reorganisation charges of 3.8m.
3 Net debt is cash and short-term deposits less total loans and borrowings.
Keller Group plc 05 Employees The new Code applies to Keller from 1 January 2011 and we will 2010 was a challenging year for management and employees formally report against it in our 2011 Annual Report, although we alike.
In the face of these challenges, our employees once again have already reflected many of its provisions in our report for showed tremendous resolve, commitment and goodwill.
One of the additional provisions of the new Code is that like to thank them for their contribution and wish all of them all directors should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
I am conscious of the concerns expressed by some of our shareholders that this practice may lead to short-termism.
Board and Governance Accordingly, I do not propose that we adopt this course of action After nine years on the Board, Richard Scholes will be stepping at our coming Annual General Meeting, but that we monitor down at the Annual General Meeting in May.
As a Non-executive developments and take further soundings from our shareholders, Director and, since 2008, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, before deciding on our course for the following year.
I do not Richard has consistently given us the benefit of his experience anticipate that we will have any difficulty complying with any other and wisdom.
We have valued his contribution to Keller and offer aspects of the new Code.
him our best wishes for the future.
Outlook I am very pleased to welcome our most recent appointee to the For the Group as a whole, contract awards in the second half Board: Chris Girling, whose appointment was announced on of 2010 continued to be ahead of the same period in 2009.
14 February and is effective from today.
Chris brings very relevant As a result, at the end of January 2011 our order book was construction experience which, together with his financial 13% ahead of the previous year.
expertise, complements the strengths of other Board members and I am confident that he will make a strong contribution.
In the US and Western Europe, our markets most severely Chris will become Chairman of the Audit Committee when impacted by the global recession, most construction markets Richard stands down at the Annual General Meeting.
have stabilised and in some we are beginning to see early signs of moderate growth.
However, the medium term looks set to Ruth Cairnie joined the Board on 1 June and in a short space of remain challenging, as the full impact of government austerity time has demonstrated commitment to the role, sound judgement programmes is felt.
Therefore, whilst we expect 2011 to be and a good understanding of the key drivers of this business.
a year of modest but steady recovery, we do not anticipate a rapid return to pre-recession levels of construction spend.
In the Corporate Governance Report, we report more fully on our Overcapacity remains an issue, particularly in the US, and it will governance structures and compliance, but it is appropriate here therefore take time for any revenue growth to feed through into to touch on two aspects of corporate governance: my intentions higher margins.
with regard to board composition and the UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010, which I refer to here The current unrest in the Middle East and North Africa will as the new Code.
inevitably impact on our businesses in these markets, albeit that they are relatively small.
Looking to Australia and our other We recognise the value in periodically refreshing the Board and developing markets, however, the fundamentals remain strong this is reflected in the changes we have made over the past and we will continue to expand our position in these markets in 12 months.
However, this needs to be balanced with the order to take full advantage of the growth opportunities which requirement for continuity and maintaining a thorough they offer.
understanding on the Board of the Groups business.
Accordingly, whilst it is my intention over the next few years to move to Our combination of strengths, including the breadth of our a position of compliance with the requirement for at least as many product offering, excellent operational capabilities and a strong independent as non-independent directors, this will be achieved balance sheet to support our ambitions, have served us well in at a pace which does not put the continuity or effectiveness of the past and will underpin our delivery of sustained long-term the Board at risk.
