Chairmans statement Peter Erskine Chairman Dear Shareholder, Our Chairman, Peter Erskine, 2010 has been a significant year of change for Ladbrokes.
looks back at the In April, following a thorough recruitment process with many high calibre candidates, we appointed Richard Glynn as the performance of the Group new Chief Executive of the Group.
Aside from his relevant online experience after nine years at Sporting Index and over the past 12months analytical skills, what impresses me most is Richards and considers how recent ambition and enthusiasm for the business.
His desire to succeed and restore Ladbrokes to a position of leadership changes to the Board, senior within the industry is infectious.
management appointments He has executed an honest, thorough and expeditious appraisal of the business.
This confirmed that whilst our and a newly aligned brand remains amongst the best in the gambling industry we have fallen behind the competition in areas such as operational structure, technology and digital marketing.
position it for the future.
Strategy Over the next few pages Richard has taken a candid approach to discussing the challenges which the business now faces, as well as outlining how he and his team plan to overcome them.
He has prioritised six objectives or Critical Success Factors and the Group is now fully focused on achieving them.
Organisational change To implement these changes effectively the management team has been restructured.
This revised organisational structure addresses the historic lack of alignment in what had been an operationally siloed business as well as promoting a greater level of responsibility and accountability throughout.
Offices have been consolidated with everybody moved to the head office at Rayners Lane, reflecting a one customer one company ethos.
A number of new hires have been made to strengthen the existing team.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 04 In August Gary McIlraith joined us from Alix Partners as The report on Corporate Governance is set out on Managing Director of Digital Channels, International and pages 32 to 36.
During 2010 the Board has been applying Strategy.
Garys expertise at delivering enhanced customer the principles relating to its role and effectiveness.
performance in the highly segmented online environment This included taking a lead in Richard Glynns appointment, is particularly valuable in the rapidly changing digital age.
reshaping the structure of the Board and developing the As a consequence of the restructuring and flattening new strategy for the Companys long term success.
ofreporting lines, John OReilly decided, after a very Dividend successful 18 years, to leave Ladbrokes to seek In line with our stated intention to resume a progressive new challenges.
dividend policy the Group will be paying a final dividend In December Stephen Vowles started as Director of of 3.75 pence per share taking the full year dividend to Customer Experience, a role which reflects the Groups 7.60 pence per share.
This dividend is approximately commitment to adopt a customer centric approach 2.0 times covered by underlying earnings, excluding the throughout its operation, offer and brand positioning.
impact of High Rollers and the effect of the HMRC Stephens brand experience includes eight years with settlement in April 2010.
Proctor & Gamble where he played a pivotal role in the The dividend will be payable on 1 June 2011 to shareholders launch of Nectar.
on the register as at 25 February 2011.
In February 2011 Nick Rust joined us from Gala Coral as Managing Director of Retail.
He is a highly experienced retail Summary betting and gaming executive with a very good industry Within the context of a tough economic climate and reputation.
This appointment has allowed Richard Ames a material organisational restructure, the continued to take up a key central role as Managing Director of commitment, enthusiasm and team spirit of people in Consumer Operations with responsibility for delivery of all parts and at every level of the Ladbrokes business cross-Group operations in areas such as technology, has been encouraging.
I am satisfied with the progress made during 2010.
Finally, after 16 years association with the Group, Brian The business has delivered an improved performance 1 2 Wallace, Group Finance Director, has advised the Board of with operating profit up 20.9% on last year driven by his intention to stand down as a Director.
Brian has agreed double digit profit growth across all divisions.
The strength to remain in his role until late summer to help the change of the balance sheet has been enhanced by a 29.1% go as smoothly as possible.
On behalf of the Board and reduction in net debt.
the senior team at Ladbrokes I would like to thank him for We have established a solid platform for growth and defined the significant contribution he has made to the Group over clear, ambitious but achievable objectives on which to focus many years and wish him every future success.
and I am confident that we now have the right team, with the right skills and the right strategy to make them a reality.
Board and Corporate Governance The Board has also been further enhanced by the appointment of John Kelly as Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director.
John has an in depth knowledge of the industry having previously been Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Gala Coral Group.
Johns appointment adds another string to our bow and after having added Darren Shapland and Sly Bailey in December 2009, I feel we Peter Erskine have a strong and experienced Board who are ready and Chairman able to tackle the challenges to come.
Meetings with shareholders over the past 12 months have served to emphasise the importance which is placed on the Board and its corporate governance.
I am pleased with how the Board is interacting and developing.
Board meetings have a healthy level of debate which provides me with confidence that each Board member is heavily engaged in understanding and advising on the subjects being discussed.
Notes: 1 Continuing operations excluding High Rollers.
2 Profit before tax, finance costs and non-trading items.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 05 Overview
