Chairmans statement Nigel Keen We believe our strategy to be enduring, the fundamentals of our markets remain attractive, our financial position is strong, and we are well placed to pursue further pro table growth Strategy Dividend Our Employees Lairds strategy is driven by the The Boards dividend policy is to In these challenging times I never overarching objective of creating increase returns to shareholders over cease to be impressed by the levels and growing shareholder value, time, while taking account of both of enthusiasm and commitment of by developing a unique capability the underlying profitability and cash our employees at all levels of the to provide our customers with a requirements of the business.
On behalf of the Board wide range of performance critical I would like to pay tribute to our electronics products, systems and The 2009 full year dividend was global team who have worked solutions.
Our growth strategy set at 6.0 pence per share 2008, so hard to make this years result encompasses five key elements: 10.31 pence, a level which allowed achievable.
Focus on specialist high while pursuing a progressive Outlook growth markets dividend policy.
The Board then During 2010 Laird emerged strongly 2.
Increase content and value-add declared an interim dividend for 2010 from the global recession and in each electronic device unit of 2.1 pence, and is recommending a financial crisis.
Exploit innovation and technology, final dividend of 4.2 pence per share, maintaining our spend, during this and product convergence giving an annual dividend of 6.3 period, on R&D and engineering 4.
Develop systems and controls pence, growth of 5%.
has resulted in our expanding our combining hardware and software customer base and increasing our 5.
Maintain a culture of operational Corporate and Social penetration with most of our existing excellence allied to corporate Responsibility customers.
The majority of our social responsibility As a forward-thinking business, markets also showed a progressive we recognise the need to behave recovery during 2010.
We believe Our strategy, developed over a as a good corporate citizen our strategy to be enduring, the number of years is, we believe, and therefore corporate social fundamentals of our markets remain enduring, and has survived the responsibility remains an integral attractive, our financial position is recession.
We believe that breadth part of our everyday business.
strong, and we are well placed to is strength and that, together We have continued our focus on pursue further profitable growth.
with the elements outlined above, improvement across our business in will over time deliver superior all areas of corporate responsibility shareholder value.
and have retained our inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
Further details of Lairds corporate responsibility activities are available in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of this report.
