Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 04 chairmans statement a year of significant progress The Companys careful management of capital expenditure during the economic crisis, coupled with a carefully phased expansion of its Hamriyah facility, provided a strong foundation from which to meet the opportunities of an improving market.
It was particularly pleasing, in that context, to see a number of sizeable new build contracts awarded in 2010 for both jackup rigs and offshore wind turbine installation vessels.
These included the award in July, of the USD 317 million contract by National Drilling Company, Abu Dhabi, for the construction and delivery of two jackup rigs.
This contract supported our view that there were and continue to be a growing number of opportunities in the new build rig Jonathan Silver Chairman market.
This view was reinforced by the award, in November, of a USD 210 million contract by Eurasia 2010 was a year of significant Drilling Company Limited for a progress for the Company, with jackup rig the largest contract in Lamprell starting to feel the Lamprells history for the commercial benefits of the construction of a single unit, and by 2010 was a year of expansion both of its physical the award, in February of this year, presence and its service offering.
by Greatship Global Energy significant progress for Services Pte.
Ltd. of a contract for the Company, with The Company reported revenues of the construction of a new build USD 503.8 million for the year, an jackup rig.
Lamprell starting to increase of 18.4 per cent on 2009, feel the commercial and net profit of USD 65.2 million, These wins came on top of 129.6 per cent higher than the prior important awards earlier in the year benefits of the year.
At the close of the year the in one of the Companys newer expansion both of its Companys order book stood at a markets.
In February 2010, the record high of USD 850 million.
Company won a significant contract physical presence and its service offering.
company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 05 a year of significant progress I am pleased to announce that, having considered the current market conditions, profit earned and cash generated during the year ended 31 December 2010, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.50 cents per share.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 17 June 2011 to shareholders who were on the register on 13 May 2011.
Steven Lamprell President Having been appointed Chief Operating Officer in March 2010, I was delighted to welcome Chris amounting to USD 320.4 million Hand to the Board in January 2011. from Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS for the construction of two offshore I am confident that Lamprells wind turbine installation vessels.
reputation for quality, its technical In June 2010, the Company was capabilities and expertise and awarded a USD 129.0 million timely project execution and contract by Seajacks for the design, delivery, will enable the Company construction and delivery of an to continue to deliver value for all its offshore wind turbine installation stakeholders.
Both these contracts reinforce Lamprells strong position I am particularly grateful, once again, in a market with significant medium for the dedication and hard work of to long-term potential.
all Lamprells management and staff.
The Company experienced a slow down in rig refurbishment in 2010, Jonathan Silver with jackup rig upgrade and Chairman refurbishment activity at a lower level Lamprell plc of average expenditure than in 2009, however there are now signs of recovery in this segment, and the Company has continued to see evidence of improvements in most of its other operating markets.
Lamprells bid activity is at a record high.
For more information visit: www.
