Governance A view from the Chairman Logica underpinned its reputation as a major European player in 2010 and is well positioned for 2011.
Logicas revenue and adjusted operating for awards made in April 2010.
These depth and diversity of expertise of the margin in the year were in line with those changes ensured that, as well as directors who have joined us over the last of 2009 in a market that continued to be rewarding performance, our ability three years or so.
The business has also challenging.
The quality of our earnings to retain strong leaders in the current bene ted from an active engagement by was much improved with adjusted economic environment was improved.
all members of the Board with the wider operating pro t at 272 million The Committee continues to monitor management teams across Europe as unchanged from 2009, but there were the performance and the reward well as with shareholders.
no restructuring costs deducted from this arrangements in light of economic The improved e ectiveness of the gure this year.
Adjusted earnings per conditions to ensure they are fully Board was highlighted by the external share were 12.3p 2009: 12.5p, and the aligned with the strategy and with evaluation of it which took place this year.
Companys return on capital was 9%.
The evaluation did, however, note some We continue to strengthen Logicas Roger Payne and Crister Stjernfelt areas where our performance could be position in the market by investing retired from the Board as noted in last further improved and we will take action signi cantly in our people, in our years annual report.
Seamus Keating during 2011 to address these issues.
infrastructure and in our value propositions moved in December to his new role as Our main focus though will continue for clients.
At the same time, given the CEO for the Benelux region and Group to be on maximising returns for our resilience of the business, the Board Chief Operations O cer after nine years shareholders.
We will aim to achieve announced in August that it intends to as Logicas CFO.
He remains on the this objective by ensuring we deliver increase the dividend payout ratio to at Board as an Executive Director and the consistently to our clients and provide least 40% of adjusted EPS by 2012.
This process to nd his replacement as CFO a stimulating working environment plan lies behind the proposed 27% increase is under way.
in the total dividend to 4.2p in 2010 from We have a strong Board at Logica 3.3p in 2009.
The 2010 payout represents which works hard to provide e ective around a third of adjusted EPS.
We aim to I would like to record the grateful make the right decisions for the long-term thanks of the Board to all of our 39,000 health of Logica and assist management people during 2010.
I know from my own in implementing them, ensuring that good experience how hard and e ectively they risk management and control is in place.
worked in the year in challenging market We also try to provide shareholders with conditions.
Our good results this year the information needed for them to assess David Tyler would of course not have been possible whether the Board and management are Chairman without their commitment.
working e ectively on their behalf.
Following our 2009 AGM, the I believe that the Boards discussions Remuneration Committee approved about the key strategic issues facing changes to the Partners Incentive Plan the business have been enhanced by the See page 41 for an explanation of the basis of pro forma and adjusted information.
