CHAIRMANS LETTER Much has been achieved in the past two years.
Dear Shareholders The health of our operations has been largely restored Overview of the year and we can now look forward to improving on the work I am delighted to report that our business performed practices and disciplines that have been introduced into well in 2010.
The Company met its production and our operations, in order to drive efficiency and productivity.
sales forecasts, returned to profitability and reinstated We will also continue to give concerted attention to our the payment of dividends.
While our mining and safety performance which must be further improved.
concentrating activities performed extremely well, problems encountered with the Number One furnace The imperatives of growth and transformation in South were again disappointing and contributed to higher than Africa expected costs and significant working capital Virtually all Lonmins operating assets reside in South Africa movements with negative cash flow implications.
while only some 7.4% of our shares are held there, with the We operate in a challenging inflationary environment in balance held internationally.
Lonmin has a premium listing South Africa compounded by a further strengthening of in London, with a secondary listing in Johannesburg.
the Rand against the US Dollar.
The negative effects on our Our commitment to ensuring that Lonmins South margins, however, have been outweighed by higher dollar African operations meet the highest standards of good Platinum Group Metal PGM prices throughout the year.
corporate citizenship remains undimmed despite the The PGM market fundamentals have effectively emergence of new challenges during the year.
As the remained in balance during the year although with a South African Government seeks to reverse the wrongs modestly stronger underpinning.
Recovery has been slow of the apartheid system, and normalise wealth distribution but steady in the automotive market supported by in the country, it has introduced legislation designed to continuing strong investment demand through Exchange accelerate transformation.
Given the mining industrys Traded Funds ETF and relatively steady platinum historic dominance and its economic and social impact, it jewellery demand.
Jewellery demand is historically more has understandably been a focal point for change initiatives.
price elastic but is increasingly driven by demand in China, During the year the Government promulgated a revised much boosted by the rapidly expanding middle class.
Mining Charter which, together with a Balanced Scorecard, Supply side growth has remained limited given both the defines the actions required by companies wishing to constraints on capital and the pressure on margins that retain their licence to operate.
The Board has constituted a the industry has experienced over the last two years.
Transformation Committee under the chairmanship of Cyril We have met our key operational targets and this Ramaphosa to support the many, complex and sometimes performance reflects the progressive turnaround in our costly initiatives which management must drive in order business: to achieve acceptable progress towards meeting these Safety: Performance continues to improve, but there transformational requirements.
These range across every is much still to be achieved: aspect of our operations, from Historically Disadvantaged Higher output from underground operations: Metal-inSouth African HDSA equity ownership levels through to concentrate is up from 2009s level of 618,000 to procurement and training.
We will report each year on our 691,000 Platinum ounces due to an increase in progress towards these goals which, for the most part, tonnes mined, grade improvements and much must be achieved by 2014.
It is to be hoped that the sheer improved recoveries in the concentrators up from scale of these changes for the mining industry as a whole, 81.0% to 84.8%: at a time when operating margins, at least in the platinum Ore reserve development: A significant increase up sector, are less than generous, will not stifle the growth 32% to 2.7 million centares: imperative on which the longer term economic prosperity Platinum sales: Sales were 6,000 ounces above our of South Africa crucially depends.
It is an uncomfortable market guidance of 700,000 Platinum sales ounces: fact that recently South Africas mining industry has Costs: Rand gross operating costs were impacted by experienced virtually no growth whilst internationally the the unexpected toll refining charges and furnace mining industry has grown annually.
Recognition of the need rebuild costs, and the inflationary environment we to restore South Africas attractiveness to international mining work in.
Despite this our unit costs only increased by investors was fundamental to the conclusions which emerged 2%, a pleasing result: and from the work of the tripartite Mining Industry Growth, Capital Expenditure: Guidance of investing up to Development and Employment Task Team MIGDETT $270 million was achieved with significant spend being exercise which concluded its work during the year.
allocated to development at K4, Saffy and Hossy.
Mention must also be made of the rather vocal calls for nationalisation of the mining industry.
These do little The Number One furnace however experienced fresh for investor confidence, but we are encouraged by the difficulties again this year, with a matte run out at the end steadfast position that key government ministers, senior of the first half which was exacerbated by a further run out leaders within the ANC, and other industry participants on restart.
Considerable attention is being given to such as the National Union of Mineworkers NUM, have reconfiguring the furnace in its current rebuild and to taken in arguing the weaknesses and dangers for South managing the inherent risk of having a single furnace to Africas economy of a policy of nationalisation.
meet all our current production needs.
Earlier this year, we Mining has always been a highly capital intensive announced that we would build additional smelting business, and our operations are no exception.
Access capacity and this is intended to reduce significantly, if not to equity, and indeed the international debt markets, is of eliminate, this risk.
In the meantime we were able to meet fundamental importance to the achievement of Lonmins our customer needs by using our pyromet furnaces and potential.
The $458 million Rights Issue last year, and the by toll refining some concentrate.
$229 million equity placement earlier in the year under Ian Farmer, our Chief Executive, moved his base to review effectively represented a large foreign direct South Africa in January 2010 and as the year comes to investment in South Africa.
Our shareholders and bankers a close I can report that we have successfully completed willingness to support Lonmin in its capital expenditure the transfer of all London based operational and programmes and in helping Shanduka Resources management roles to Johannesburg.
We are already Proprietary Limited Shanduka fund its investment in seeing benefits from this decision.
Incwala Resources Pty Ltd Incwala, depend on their 04 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information OUR BUSINESS PERFORMED WELL IN 2010 AND MET ITS PRODUCTION AND SALES FORECASTS, RETURNED TO PROFITABILITY AND REINSTATED THE PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS.
Roger Phillimore Chairman confidence in our security of tenure, primarily of our New In line with the Boards policy to maintain an appropriate Order Mining Licences but, underlying that, of our mineral capital structure Lonmin financed this funding through a rights.
I am happy to report that a measure of uncertainty combination of the net proceeds from a Placing to in the latter regard was speedily resolved during the year institutional investors which raised 160 million $229 million, with the active co-operation of the Department of Mineral and from Lonmins own financial resources.
There remains only a private challenge record Lonmins appreciation of the support provided in to our right to mine associated minerals over a small part this placing by our larger shareholders, including Xstrata.
of our property, and we are determined to do everything The South African Minister of Mineral Resources possible to preserve that right.
and the DMR acknowledged Lonmins support for the transaction and endorsed it as a constructive contribution Incwala and Shanduka to the long term financial stability of our BEE structure.
During the year we provided significant funding for Shanduka to acquire Incwala shares from a number of Role and effectiveness of the Board counterparties, including certain of the original HDSA We are cognisant of the best practice recommendations of shareholders.
Shanduka now holds interests directly and the UK Corporate Governance Code, and comply with these indirectly which represent in aggregate 50.03% of the wherever we believe they confer competitive advantage.
shares of Incwala, an outcome which simplifies the The dynamic nature of the Board means that there is a ownership structure.
continual evolution of its role, but our guiding principle has Operating successfully in South Africa today always been that all policy decisions affecting the delivery requires a Black Economic Empowerment BEE partner of value to shareholders are reserved to the Directors, whose that can actively add value.
Meeting South Africas key responsibilities are to participate fully in devising the transformational aspirations, addressing productivity Companys strategy, oversee the delivery of agreed challenges in partnership with unions and investing in strategic objectives and ensure that risk is fully considered growth with assurance of mining right security, all require and managed.
When debating such issues I ensure that that the relationships with our many stakeholders operate comprehensive and relevant information is provided on a effectively.
The Board believes that Shanduka as the timely basis, that sufficient time is available for full and majority shareholder in Incwala has a proven track record robust discussion and that there are opportunities to meet of investing in the natural resources sector, strong the relevant operational executives.
Clearly, the collective leadership qualities, and has demonstrated the financial blend of skills, experience, knowledge and independence capacity to participate in transactions together with of thought of the Board members is crucial to that debate.
The Board therefore considers that a strong Significant effort has been devoted to building a cohesive partnership with Shanduka will serve Lonmin well.
Our Board drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds, all of commitment to the importance of this partnership is whose members are afforded every opportunity to develop evidenced by Cyril Ramaphosa joining the Lonmin Board a deep understanding of the business and who are and by Shandukas representatives attending the Lonmin encouraged to contribute to our deliberations.
As assurance Executive Committee meetings.
of the effectiveness of our Board, its Committees and their Against this background the Board decided that robust respective processes, we have this year for the first time funding would be required for the new BEE structure, in employed an external facilitator to manage the annual order to secure the long term future and stability of review.
The results have been encouraging, with a number Incwala.
It became clear that the best way of this being of opportunities for incremental improvement identified and achieved would be with funding from Lonmin and we the Board confirmed as being effective, as discussed more agreed to provide Shanduka with a $304 million five year fully in Section 2 of the Directors Report.
The results of loan, secured on Shandukas interest in Incwala, with this review will also inform our Board succession planning, Shanduka making an equity contribution of R300 million.
as we need to keep under review how best to equip www.
com 05 CHAIRMANS LETTER continued ourselves to meet the challenges of the medium and by less than 8% on the assumption that we achieve a longer terms.
The Board recognises that its primary settlement with the NUM in line with that achieved by accountability is to shareholders, and we have decided to our two larger competitors.
accede to the new best practice recommendation and Our capital spend will rise this year to some $380 million.
submit all directors for re-election on an annual basis, This is higher than our previous guidance of $300-350 million from the 2011 AGM onwards.
due to a decision to invest in the new furnace $38 million We recognise fully that there could be a perception that in 2011 and tailings treatment plants $24 million in 2011, the Lonmin directorate may become somewhat remote neither of which were within the original guidance.
The from the operations of the business in South Africa.
We furnace spend is essential as a risk mitigation in the short regard it as truly important that the Board retains its seat term and to ensure there is adequate capacity in the and prime governance functions in London, and that our longer term.
The tailings treatment project is an exciting one UK, and international, investors and financiers continue as these new plants will recover PGMs from our chrome to be served at the highest level.
However the diversity depleted UG2 tailings.
Over the next three years we expect of our directorate, its significant collective South African to spend c. $75 million on these plants, and as a result knowledge and experience, the fact that we have two to improve our concentrator recoveries from 2012 onwards major meetings in South Africa each year and my own at our UG2 plants by around 2%, which based on todays and my colleagues frequent visits satisfy us that we will volumes represents around 25,000 PGM ounces per continue to be able, as a Board, to meet fully our annum.
We remain on track to produce around 850,000 Platinum ounces by 2013 from our Marikana operations, Board changes including our share of the Pandora joint venture, with I am delighted to welcome to the Board Dr Len Konar growth coming from Hossy, Saffy and K4.
In addition to and Cyril Ramaphosa who joined us during the year as Marikana, we still have options for growth at Limpopo and Non-executive Directors of the Company.
Len is a highly Akanani and we will be turning our attention to these respected businessman in South Africa and his professional matters in the coming year.
The pace at which investment contribution to the development of Lonmin will be important.
into growth projects can be applied will be impacted by Cyrils breadth of experience and wise counsel will be vital the capital requirements and cash generating capabilities in helping Lonmin build on its operational capacity in South of our existing operating assets as well as long term Africa and to fulfil its strategic transformational objectives.
demand trends for our products.
I also look forward to Mahomed Seedat, currently our Chief Operating Officer, joining the Board as a NonDividend executive Director on 1 January 2011.
Mahomeds Given the improved financial performance of the business, judgement and leadership have been invaluable as we have its projected cash requirements and current trading restored the operational health of the business and he will conditions the Board has decided to resume the payment remain in his executive position until the end of 2010. of dividends.
In coming to this decision the Board has I am also pleased to welcome Simon Scott who revised its dividend policy.
was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director Our new policy is to recommend each year an on 27 September 2010 and will assume his role as Chief ordinary final dividend at a rate which the Board expects Financial Officer on 15 November 2010.
Simon brings can at least be maintained in subsequent years.
This both local knowledge and relevant experience of financial annual dividend would be announced after the year end management gained at senior levels of the South African and would be supplemented by a special final dividend in platinum mining industry.
We look forward to the years when our reported earnings for the previous year, substantial contribution he will make to the continuing and our projected cash requirements, allow.
Dividends development of Lonmin in years to come.
will therefore be paid only once a year.
The Board would also like to acknowledge the In implementing this new policy in a year which significant role which Alan Ferguson has played and will produced net earnings after minorities of $112 million continue to play until his departure on 31 December 2010. equivalent to 56.9 cents per share, the Board has given This is a very different Company from the one he joined consideration to the fact that operating margins are three and a half years ago and a large part of the credit currently still relatively low, our net debt at year end was for this transformation should go to him.
He will leave $375 million and that the capital expenditure requirements with our gratitude and best wishes.
of the business are considerable.
The dividend of 15 US cents per share is recommended Outlook as the ordinary final dividend for the year, to be paid to We are confident that PGM markets will sustain the shareholders on the registers at the close of business on improvements already seen, and have the potential to 14 January 2011, subject to approval by shareholders at advance further.
Recovery in western automotive markets the Annual General Meeting on 27 January 2011. and rapid growth in China will underpin auto catalyst demand.
A new factor of considerable potential is the Employees demand for catalysts for off-road vehicles.
Platinum Finally, I extend warm thanks to all Lonmin employees and jewellery demand, increasingly favoured in the Far East, contractors.
Their continued hard work and commitment will be supported inter alia by the recent narrowing of the has enabled us to deliver a rewarding set of operational spread between the gold and platinum prices.
We remain and financial results, and the prospect of continuing of the view that production increases by the South African improvement.
PGM industry over the next few years will remain modest.
We intend to build on the strong operational performance of 2010 and anticipate that production at Marikana including our share of the Pandora joint venture will grow to enable us to achieve Platinum sales of around 750,000 ounces in 2011.
Our main challenge will be Roger Phillimore containing costs in the face of inflationary pressures in Chairman the mining industry and the largest component of our cost is labour.
Given this, we anticipate unit cost will increase 12 November 2010 06
