06 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OVERVIEW: Chairmans statement Delivering on oUr CoMMitMents For the long terM Sir John Parker start next month on the construction of the Chairman mine, beneficiation plant and tailings dam, with an expected start-up date for the operation during the second half of 2013.
Traditionally, across the mining industry, project delivery has often proved to be challenging both in regard to timing and meeting cost targets.
At Anglo American, we have adopted a single, integrated Group project management system, including a risk-based method of capital approval for new projects.
It has now been fully implemented as part of the successful corporate re-organisation and is bringing much more rigour to the process.
oUr people I have now visited all our business units and major projects, and I am not only deeply impressed by the commitment of our people, wherever they happen to work, but by their perForManCe anD strategy DiviDenD dedication and professionalism in living out Anglo Americans values.
In 2010, your company experienced a strong It is pleasing to report that we were able to revival on the back of steadily rising demand restore the dividend at the half year stage.
This was brought home to me on a recent visit and higher prices for all of the commodities The Board believes it is prudent to provide to the disastrous flood areas in Queensland.
in our diversified mining portfolio, though shareholders with a dividend that they can rely Management and employees at Metallurgical the strength of local currencies somewhat on through the cycles.
Against this background, Coal carried out heroic acts in transferring an dampened our overall financial performance.
the Board has proposed a final dividend of 40 entire township threatened with exceptional cents per share, thereby establishing our new flooding to our own temporary housing Our clear strategy of focusing on seven key base annual dividend per share at 65 cents.
It was evident, too, in the outstanding commodities, driving cost reductions, safe response of our Copper business to the operations and pursuing leading industry Taking into account the Groups substantial Chilean earthquake in February 2010.
Not performance is being implemented investment programme for future growth, only did we provide $10 million towards successfully, with all our businesses moving its future earnings potential and the continuing reconstruction, but our teams also got down their respective industry cost curves.
need for a robust balance sheet, any surplus involved in a very hands-on way by clearing This was borne out by a strong set of operating cash will be returned to shareholders.
debris and constructing six new schools results.
Group operating profit increased within weeks.
The Board is immensely proud sharply to $9.8 billion, against $5 billion in of these efforts.
2009, while cash flow generation from growth prospeCts operations improved from $4.1 billion to With regard to our peoples career aspirations, $7.7billion.
The Groups pipeline of projects spans its the Board is taking a keen interest in the core commodities and is expected to grow modern approach that management has At the same time, rigorous cost control our production by some 50% by 2015.
In devised to progress the development of our was applied across the business, with the total, we have $70billion of projects, which employees at all levels throughout the Group.
benefits delivered by our asset optimisation have the potential to double the production In this respect, I would particularly like to and procurement initiatives exceeding target.
of the Group over the next decade or so.
mention our new generation of managers This strong performance, together with heading our business units, who, importantly, excellent progress in our orderly disposal Our largest, the world-class Minas-Rio are today based in the regions of their core programme, contributed to a significant iron ore project in Brazil, has been largely operations rather than at our London improvement in our balance sheet position, fide-risked by the receipt of the mining permit headquarters.
Their being able to work that with net debt reduced to $7.4 billion.
and approval of the primary installation much more closely with our exploration, licence, as well as the securing of a long term mining and engineering people is making port tariff agreement.
We now have the key a considerable difference to running a truly licences and permits in place to enable us to efficient mining business.
To read Sir Johns biography turn to page 88
