To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 01 Overview Performance & KPIs p14 Chairmans overview Brand & Marketplace p20 by Sir Stuart Rose Operating & Financial review p26 Governance p50 Financial statements p78 A platform for growth This year M&S returned to growth, demonstrating the resilience of the brand through difficult times.
2009 10 has been about leading the business through the recession without losing sight of our long-term plan or our core values.
We remain committed to building a world-class retailer Sir Stuart Rose Chairman through increasing the pace of change and driving operational excellence in the business: building our multi-channel capability: Leading your very special growing our international portfolio: and, as the economy returns business for the last six years to a stronger footing, reinvigorating our brand communications.
has been a pleasure and Our progress was interrupted but not altered by the a privilege.
Last year, we continued to implement short-term objectives to guide M&S through the economic downturn.
As a result of this decisive action our long-term strategy remains in place.
We have built a strong platform for growth and have improved or maintained market share in all our core areas.
We grew because we managed our costs prudently, listened and responded to our customers changing needs and stayed true to our core values of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust, reminding our customers of what makes M&S different.
This year we have worked hard to further improve our quality and our customers have told us they have noticed this improvement.
A year ago, I told you the Board had cut the dividend by 20.9%.
This was not an easy decision but it gave us the flexibility to continue to invest in the business despite the downturn.
Although we scaled back investment in new stores we continued to invest in our infrastructure, particularly our supply chain and IT systems.
We also invested in our margins, to give customers the extra value they were looking for without compromising quality.
Whilst some retailers attempted to meet this need by repositioning themselves as low cost, M&S continued to stand for value and not just price an approach that is serving us well as consumer confidence returns.
02 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Overview Chairmans overview continued QUALITY Above: Wrapping up As Britains coldest winter in decades took hold customers turned to M&S to keep them cosy.
In December we sold enough knitwear to clothe every woman between the ages of 20 and 84 living in London, with sales of QUALITY & INNOVATION womens knitwear up 18%.
Above: Extending the asparagus season John Chinn has been growing asparagus for M&S for over six years: In 2003 I went to an Despite the economic challenges, we have You will see from Ian Dysons finance review asparagus growers conference where an M&S also renewed our commitment to Plan A, on page 8 that Group sales increased by buyer gave a talk and invited any growers interested in extending the season to come and see him.
Positive UK like-for-like sales have environmental issues matter to our returned, up 0.9% and we have seen growth Since then John, with the help of M&S, has doubled the length of the British season by customers and that the recession has not across all parts of the business, as the growing early varieties on the south facing slopes of altered their level of concern.
They continue external market conditions improved and our his Wye Valley farm.
The later-cropping asparagus to look to M&S to lead the way, so this year customers became more confident.
are planted on the north facing slopes which are still we set out our vision to become the worlds Food has now delivered a sixth being harvested well into July.
most sustainable major retailer by 2015. consecutive quarter of growth.
As outlined Since its launch in 2007, we have moved in John Dixons review on page 24 this has from the implementation of Plan A to making been achieved by better value, availability it the key driver of how we do business.
and product innovation, whilst continuing In doing so, we have become more efficient to deliver outstanding quality.
The pace of and in 2009 10 alone Plan A generated development in Food will not slow and this 50m additional profit, which has been year we committed to renewing 25% of invested back into the business.
our food range every year.
This year I worked with the Board to Our clothing market share continues identify Marc Bolland as my successor as to grow, up 0.3% to 11%, as our customers Chief Executive.
Though we remain cautious have started to invest in their wardrobes about the year ahead, the worst effects of again.
Feedback from them tells us we have the recession are behind us.
Furthermore, got the products right and are in touch with M&S is in a stronger position and I am the latest trends.
As set out in Kate convinced that Marc is the right man to lead Bostocks clothing review on page 16 weve the business forward, as he brings a wealth responded to customer requests for an easy PlAn A: YOUR GREEN IDEA of experience to the role.
As Chairman, I will to wear, casual range with the launch of continue to work with the Board and with Indigo Collection.
We have also used our Trust In March we launched Your Green Idea a major Plan A competition, offering a chance the management team to ensure a smooth good, better and best pricing structure to win 100,000 to green an organisation, transition until I leave the business.
to ensure we continue to offer something for such as a school or a local community group.
everyone, making it easy for our customers Your Green Idea invited people to share their Our performance this year to trade up and down within M&S to suit ideas for new, green actions that M&S their priorities and budgets.
could implement under Plan A, so that all of Marks & Spencer has had a good year, our 21 million customers can get involved in with our adjusted profits up 4.6% on last helping the environment.
Before the 80.9m bonus we paid to our colleagues to thank them for their extraordinarily hard work, profits were at 713.4m, a 17.5% increase on 2008 09.
For more information about Plan A see p36 or visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 03 Overview Performance & KPIs p14 Brand & Marketplace p20 Operating & financial review p26 Governance p50 Financial statements p78 Well Suited Over the last 12 months weve strengthened our share of the menswear market to 10.4% by value.
Weve sharpened our brands, such as Collezione, featured left, which we relaunched in February.
Find out more about the work we have done on page 21.
Find out more at marksandspencer.
com 04 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Overview Chairmans overview continued INNOVATION left: Reversy Percy Customers told us they like to eat Percy Pigs jelly ears first so in March 2010 we reversed him to give fans more of their favourite bits.
Percy Pig is exclusive to M&S and has his own Facebook Appreciation Society, with over 200,000 members and over 1.5 million Percy Pigs are eaten a week!
We remain focused on helping our customers Our extended Plan A will reach further and shop with us whichever way they want, move us faster covering every part of our bringing together our various shopping business and reaching out to our 2,000 channels to provide greater convenience suppliers in the UK and overseas and into and flexibility.
As explained on page 28 of the homes of our 21 million customers.
the report, this year we launched Shop Your We are also encouraging our 76,000 Way, a new ordering service that has been employees to live greener lifestyles and rolled-out to over 300 stores, allowing this is explained in more detail in our people customers to place orders either in stores, section on page 40.
As part of this all TRUST online or over the phone, for delivery to M&S employees are now entitled to a Above: The Marks in Time exhibition was either a nominated address or free of charge paid volunteer day so that we can give launched as part of our 125 celebrations.
something back to the communities It showcased the M&S journey from market stall to Our International sales were up 5.7%, we serve.
international retailer, highlighting its role in British despite difficult trading conditions in the By 2020 we aim to convert the 2.7 billion cultural history since Michael Marks opened his first stall in 1884.
Held at the University of Leeds, Republic of Ireland and Greece.
We remain individual M&S food, clothing and home it features nearly 200 items from the M&S Company confident in our International growth plans products sold each year, to Plan A Archive and marks the beginning of a unique and this year we have focused on building products, so that each carries at least partnership which will see the entire archive relocate sustainable businesses in emerging one sustainable or ethical quality.
In doing to the University in 2011.
Sir Stuart Rose and Twiggy opened the exhibition alongside University economies such as India and China.
so, we will make a positive contribution Vice-Chancellor, Michael Arthur.
Improvements across M&S are a result to the environment and society across of our consistent delivery of quality and value everything we do and everything we sell.
Through good times and Plan A is not just the right thing to through adversity we have remained true do ethically, it also makes commercial to our core values.
It is these values that sense.
By further embedding sustainability continue to set M&S apart from the into the way we do business we will competition and I believe they are more continue to become more efficient, develop SERVICE & TRUST relevant than ever before in our 125 new markets and build customer loyalty.
Below: Three lions One Tailor year history.
As World Cup fever hits the 125th anniversary country this summer well be Trust kitting out the England squad for Against the backdrop of recession, our their trip to South Africa.
Fans Our customers know they can trust us to 125th anniversary celebrations served as a wont be left out and they can get do the right thing and nowhere is this rallying call to remind both customers and their hands on the same suits for 199 and waistcoat for 35. better demonstrated than through Plan A. employees of the values M&S has stood This year we raised the bar setting for throughout its 125 year history.
To this ourselves the ambitious goal of effect, we brought back the Penny Bazaar becoming the worlds most under the original slogan Dont ask the sustainable major retailer by 2015. price its a penny attracting over three million customers in just three days.
As part of the celebrations we also set our employees a target of raising 1.25m in just To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 05 Overview Performance & KPIs p14 Brand & Marketplace p20 Operating & Financial review p26 Governance p50 Financial statements p78 INNOVATION QUALITY & TRUST Above: Show stopping desserts This year our left: Cashmere Goats John Worley, our knitwear pudding experts created the inside-out trifle, with product technologist conducted a fact-finding visit layers of swiss roll on the outside holding a filling to Inner Mongolia to discover more about the age of custard and raspberry jelly.
Also popular was old production of cashmere, which we use in our the Snow Storm inspired by old fashioned snow luxury knits.
Johns hosts showed him how they globes its made using transparent vanilla jelly comb and remove the goats hair by hand to interspersed with coconut flakes on a white ensure its of the highest quality.
You have to chocolate panna cotta base.
comb one and a half goats to collect enough fibre to produce one mens jumper.
Across the country, employees We have taken the business back to its core rose to the challenge, more than doubling values of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation this target to raise 2.8m benefiting over and Trust.
We reconnected with our 500 local charities.
customers and employees by focusing on these values and launching the successful Foundations for the future Your M&S campaign, as well as Plan A.
Our revenues have grown by 1.9bn, In October we held an Investor Day to with International revenues doubling since explain in more detail our long-term change 2004.
We have significantly expanded our programme, which we launched a year UK store base, from 375 stores to almost ago as Project 2020.
This year we have 700 today including putting M&S in begun to accelerate the pace of activity previously under-represented locations to fundamentally transform the way M&S like out-of-town and retail parks.
It is: We have revitalised our clothing offer, delivering a step-change in the way we filling the gaps in our ranges, keeping up to service our customers needs and the way date with key trends and making our prices we operate our business: much more competitive.
We now offer increasing the pace of change and stylish, good value and great quality operational execution: products for all our customers regardless accelerating Multi-channel: and of their age, lifestyle or budget.
Six years driving our International business.
ago, for example, only 12% of our total clothing offer was at our opening price Our investment will not only create a points, compared to just under a third today.
solid platform for future growth but will The growth weve seen in our market also deliver tangible customer benefits share shows us that this approach is from improved on shelf availability to working.
We have strengthened our more convenient delivery times.
performance across all areas of clothing in womenswear, lingerie, menswear Handing over a stronger business and kidswear and our market share As we welcome Marc Bolland as our new has risen to 11%.
Chief Executive, I would like to reflect briefly on what has been achieved over the past six years.
Marks & Spencer is a significantly stronger business today than it was when I became Chief Executive in 2004.
QUALITY & INNOVATION left: In print Our Limited Collection geometric print dress was our take on the graphic prints displayed on the 2009 10 catwalk.
Using the latest digital print technology, it was a hit with both customers and the fashion press, named by Sunday Times Style Magazine as the best print dress on the high street ever.
