OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 37 PERFORMANCE REVIEW GROUP Earnings and dividends The Group delivered profit before tax of 252 million 2014: 289 million.
Diluted earnings per share DEPS was 71.68pence, 13% lower than theprior year.
Reecting our continued confidence in the strength and prospects of the business, the Group is proposing to maintain the final dividend at 17.74 pence per share.
Subject to Shareholder approval, this will result in a full year dividend of 27.12 pence 2014: 27.12 pence per Ordinary Share: this equates to dividend cover of 2.6 times 2014: 3.0 times.
Cash ow and balance sheet Carole Cran During the year, we generated an operating cash inow of 461 million Chief Financial officer 2014: 498 million.
We continued to manage our capital expenditure tightly and to adjust the amount we spend up or down in response to market conditions whilst investing sustainably for the future.
Fleet capital expenditure was 237 million 2014: 226 million, of which 63 million was invested in our gas eet and 29 million to refurbish ourdiesel eet to the more fuel efficient, higher output G3 engine, which now represents 13% of our Utility business diesel eet.
Watch Caroles video online: Net debt was 489 million at 31 December 2015: 5 million lower www.
This resulted in net debt to EBITDA of 0.9 times, maintaining it at the 2014 level.
Outlook The trading results for the 12 months to 31 December 2015 are set out Our Power Solutions Utility business has started the year with a strong below.
All numbers in this section are pre-exceptional items.
order book: a healthy prospect pipeline: 140MW of new orders: and the signing of a two year extension of our 148MW of diesel contracts in Group trading performance Japan.
We expect the level of contracts off-hiring in the year to go back Underlying Group revenue was down 3% on the prior year.
up to a more normal level, of around 30%.
Due to the timing of contract Rental Solutions revenue was in line with last year with growth in the start and end dates there will be a reduction in first half profits at a majority of our key sectors, particularly petrochemical & rening and Group level.
We continue to monitor the geopolitical situation in Yemen, events, offsetting the impact lower commodity prices had on our Libya and Venezuela.
oil & gas and mining revenues.
Power Solutions revenue was down 5%.
Within this, our Industrial business grew strongly with revenues In our Power Solutions Industrial business we are seeing softer trading 10% higher driven by growth in our Middle East, Russian and African conditions in Singapore and some of our markets that are more businesses.
In contrast, trading conditions in Brazil remain difficult exposed to the mining sectors.
However year to date power volumes given the macro environment and we have taken steps to further are up on the prior year, driven by continued good performances in the reduce the cost base as a result.
Power Solutions Utility revenue was Middle East, Russia and Africa.
down 11% driven by the renegotiation of our 325MW gas contract in The Rental Solutions business unit, in particular our North American Bangladesh and the off-hiring of our 104MW contract in Panama.
business, has had a slow start to 2016 following a lower run rate exiting Overall, the Group trading margin was 17% 2014: 19%.
Rental 2015 than we had expected and we are cautious on our outlook for this Solutions margin was down slightly on last year driven by North part of our business.
American pricing and volumes in the oil & gas sector.
Power Solutions At a Group level we anticipate investing around 250 million on eet margin was down three percentage points overall.
Within this, Industrial capex, focussing on investment in our more fuel efficient gas and diesel was up four percentage points, reecting the incremental benefit we engines: as ever we will maintain our capital discipline and ex this get from major events.
Utility margin was down five percentage points spend according to market conditions.
Overall, we expect profit before due to the contract renegotiation in Bangladesh and a higher debtor tax and exceptional items to be slightly lower than the prior year on a provision driven by slower payments, particularly in Venezuela and 1 constant currency basis, in line with current consensus.
The lower margin, as well as a slight increase in net operating assets, impacted the Group return on capital employed, which was 16% 2014: 19%.
The movement in exchange rates in the period had the translational impact of increasing revenue by 22 million and trading profit by 6 million.
This was driven by the strength of the US Dollar against Sterling partially offset by the weakness of the majority of our other major currencies against Sterling.
1 The constant currency impact is a headwind of 16 million applying the end of January 2016 spot rates, including the step devaluation of the Argentinian peso.
In relation to 2016 the Power Solutions Utility contracts in Argentina have contractual protection that offsets the impact of the devaluation.
