Strategic report | Financial review | 46 FINANCIAL REVIEW of two items.
In May, we assumed As a substantial UK tax payer, the group BPs 47% interest in Vivergo Fuels at will benefit from the future reductions in ANOTHER YEAR which time a non-cash charge of 75m the UK corporation tax rate to 19% from was recognised to account for the 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020.
OF STRONG CASH effective disposal of the groups original Following substantive enactment of equity-accounted stake in the joint these rates since the balance sheet date, venture prior to its immediate repurchase the effect of these reductions on our UK GENERATION at fair value.
This charge also includes deferred tax liability will be reflected in a 100m non-cash loss on sale of the 2015 16 and in our current tax charge two uneconomic sugar factories in the year in which the reductions apply.
This years tax charge of 193m included Group revenue increased by 2% Finance expense less finance income an underlying charge of 220m at an at constant exchange rates, but the of 53m was lower than last years effective rate of 21.3% 2014 23.3% strengthening of sterling against our net charge of 58m reflecting a lower on the adjusted profit before tax.
The major trading currencies, particularly in average level of debt during the year.
reduction in the effective rate is a result the second half of the year, resulted in a of the mix of profits earned in different decline in revenues of 1% at actual rates, Profit before tax fell from 1,020m to tax jurisdictions, the reduction in the to 12.8bn.
On an adjusted basis, where the UK corporation tax rate from 21% to 20% of 1,092m was 4% below last year at amortisation of non-operating intangible with effect from 1 April 2015 and the constant rates but 6% lower at actual assets, any profits or losses on the sale conclusion of tax audits in a number rates.
In calculating adjusted operating of non-current assets or on the sale and of businesses.
With profit increasing in profit, the amortisation charge on closure of businesses, and exceptional businesses subject to a corporate tax non-operating intangibles, profits or items are excluded, profit before tax rate higher than the UK, we expect the losses on disposal of non-current assets fell by 6% to 1,034m.
groups effective tax rate to increase and any exceptional items are excluded.
On an unadjusted basis, operating profit We recognise the importance of complying was 12% below last year at 947m.
The overall tax charge for the year benefited fully with all applicable tax laws as well from a credit of 8m 2014 21m for tax An exceptional non-cash operating charge as paying and collecting the right amount relief on the amortisation of non-operating of 98m was taken in February to impair of tax in every country in which the group intangible assets and goodwill arising the groups shareholder loans to Vivergo operates.
We have had a board-adopted from previous acquisitions.
A tax credit Fuels following the decline in the price tax policy for many years which is based of 22m arose on the exceptional item of fuel, and particularly biofuel, earlier in on seven tax principles that are embedded and the net profit on the sale of fixed the year.
in the financial and non-financial processes assets gave rise to a tax charge of 3m.
and controls of the group.
Our tax The income statement includes a charge No tax credit is recognised on the loss principles are included in the appendix of 172m for the net loss on the sale and on disposal of businesses as no relief to our Corporate Responsibility Report closure of businesses primarily in respect is available.
JOHN BASON, FINANCE DIRECTOR Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Financial review | 47 Earnings and dividends high return which reduced from 33.2% Earnings attributable to equity to 31.1% reflecting the impact of a higher shareholders were 532m and the level of markdown on its profit margin.
weighted average number of shares The other three business segments all in issue during the year, which is used delivered an increase on last year largely to calculate earnings per share, was driven by profit improvement, with little 790 million 2014 790 million.
Earnings change in average capital employed.
per ordinary share were 30% lower Cash flow than last year at 67.3p as a result of the The group generated a net cash flow exceptional charge and the losses on from operating activities of 1,166m this sale of businesses.
Adjusted earnings year with a working capital outflow of per share, which provides a more OUR GROUP 66m, driven by the higher level of sugar consistent measure of trading stocks and Primark inventory, compared STRATEGY AND performance, fell by 2% from 104.1p to last years inflow of 100m.
BUSINESS MODEL Gross expenditure on property, plant and The interim dividend was increased equipment and intangibles amounted to Our businesses are organised so that by 3% to 10.0p and a final dividend has 613m compared with 708m last year.
they are close to the markets and been proposed at 25.0p which represents Primark spent 306m on the acquisition customers that they serve.
an overall increase of 3% for the year.
of new stores, the fit-out of new and The proposed dividend is expected to Pages 8 and 9 Group business model and strategy existing stores and on the expansion cost 198m and will be charged next of warehouse capacity including new year.
Dividend cover, on an adjusted facilities in the Czech Republic and the basis, is 2.9 times.
Expenditure in the food businesses The financial strength and flexibility of Balance sheet was lower than last year which saw the group is enhanced by diversifying our Non-current assets of 6.4bn were the completion of our programme to sources of funding and having certainty 0.4bn lower than last year.
Although modernise our UK bakeries.
72m was of finance over a long period.
The strength capital expenditure was again higher than realised this year from the sale of property, and breadth of the 12 banks in the syndicate depreciation and amortisation charges plant and equipment, the major elements reflect the scale and international presence this year, this was more than offset by of which were the sale of former Primark of the group and particularly our increasing foreign exchange translation losses and sites and the redevelopment of a former activities in continental Europe through assets disposed, with the result that factory site in Western Australia which Primarks expansion.
the carrying value of intangible assets is progressing well with a number of lots Pensions and property, plant and equipment fell sold for housing development during Pension liabilities in the groups defined by 100m and 177m respectively.
benefit pension schemes exceeded Working capital at the year end was The purchase of Dorset Cereals employee benefit assets at the year end 101m lower than last year reflecting comprised the majority of the 52m by 16m compared with last years deficit lower food commodity prices and invested in business acquisitions.
The UK scheme accounted for although inventories were higher driven 92% of the groups total pension assets Financing by year end European sugar stock levels and the increase in the market value of The financing of the group is managed by and higher new-season inventory at these assets during the year exceeded the a central treasury department.
The group Primark, this was more than offset by increase in the present value of scheme has total committed borrowing facilities lower trade receivables and higher trade liabilities.
Total contributions to defined amounting to 2.1bn, which comprise: payables.
Average working capital as benefit plans in the year amounted to 0.6bn of US private placement notes a percentage of sales was broadly level 39m 2014 41m.
A triennial valuation maturing between 2016 and 2024, with with last year at 9.4%.
Net borrowings of the UK scheme was undertaken as an average fixed rate coupon of 5.1%, at the year end were 252m lower than at 5 April 2014 which was agreed by the 78m of which is payable in March 2016: last year at 194m as a consequence of trustees in December 2014, and revealed 1.2bn provided under a syndicated, another strong cash flow performance.
As a result there was revolving credit facility which matures no requirement to agree a recovery plan A currency loss of 432m arose on the in July 2020 with an option to extend with the trustees.
translation into sterling of the groups by a further year: and 0.3bn of local foreign currency denominated net assets.
committed facilities in Africa and Spain.
The charge for the year for the groups The groups net assets fell by 202m During the financial year we repaid, defined contribution schemes, which to 6,551m.
from existing cash resources, a 120m was equal to the contributions made, loan from the European Investment Bank.
amounted to 76m 2014 76m Return on capital employed for the group, At the year end, 728m was drawn which was substantially greater than the which is calculated by expressing adjusted down under these committed facilities.
cash contribution made to the defined operating profit as a percentage of the The group also had access to 0.7bn of benefit schemes reflecting the changing average capital employed for the year, uncommitted credit lines under which shape of pension provision in the group.
was 17.6% compared with 18.9% last 156m was drawn at the year end.
The primary reason for the decline John Bason Cash and cash equivalents totalled was the reduction in sugar profits although Finance Director 702m at the year end.
there was also a small dilution of Primarks Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
