Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 22 What weve been doing in 2015 Construction Services 1 Revenue Financial review Operational review The construction business continued to be more UK selective in the work that it bid, through increased The UK construction business is organised into three bid margin thresholds, improved risk frameworks and business units consisting of: better contract governance.
As a result of these actions Major Projects: focused on complex projects in 6,388m there was a small decline of 3% 7% decline at CER key market sectors such as transportation, heavy in underlying revenue from continuing operations to infrastructure and energy.
Revenues in the Regional: private and public, civil engineering and UK fell by 14% due to the lower levels of order intake in building, providing customers with locally delivered, the prior year and as the improved bidding disciplines flexible and fully integrated civil and building services.
resulted in lower levels of contracts in previous problem 1 Order book areas.
This was partially offset by a revenue increase of Engineering Services: mechanical and 3% in the US 4% decline at CER and a 16% increase electrical engineering.
Underlying revenue in the UK fell by 14% to Loss profit from Underlying loss from continuing operations was 2,024 million, predominantly due to a decline in the 1,2 operations 229 million 2014: 209 million.
This was largely due Regional construction business.
The UK business to historic issues in the UK, US and Middle East that continued to be more selective in the work that it bid, 229 m resulted in profit write-downs and contract provisions.
through increased bid margin thresholds, improved Total loss from continuing operations reduced by risk frameworks and better contract governance.
111 million to 280 million 2014: 391 million, Revenues were lower due to the lower levels of order reflecting lower losses arising from Rail Germany and intake in 2014 and as the improved bidding disciplines the legacy Engineering Services contracts, as they resulted in lower levels of contracts in previous problem largely performed to expectations in 2015. areas.
The business areas that saw the greatest revenue decline were those that suffered from the The improved bidding disciplines also resulted in the greatest contract problems, such as Engineering order book remaining broadly stable during the year Services, London and the South West.
As the UK 4% decline at CER, as strong growth in the US business focused on improving the quality of new and the Middle East offset declines in the UK and orders, the UK order book declined by 17%.
At the same time, the quality of the UK order book improved as bid margin thresholds and the The underlying loss from the UK construction business focus on larger jobs rose.
At the year end there was a was 187 million 2014: 229 million, after provisions strong pipeline of projects that were awarded preferred were taken to maintain an adequate level of cover bidder status during 2015.
These are not yet included against the likely end contract positions on a number in the order book, but are expected to reach final award of historic contracts that suffered schedule slippages in 2016. and operational deterioration.
The total loss from the UK construction business after including the results of Across the construction portfolio there remain a small the non-underlying Engineering Services contracts was number of long-term and complex projects where 195 million 2014: 317 million.
the Group has incorporated significant judgements over contractual entitlements.
The range of potential The business is continuing to manage the historic outcomes could result in a materially positive or problem contracts through to completion.
At the 2015 negative swing to underlying profitability and cash flow.
half-year 89 historic contracts were identified that have In the UK, the majority of these contracts are within had a material negative impact on profitability and Major Projects.
Outside of the UK this primarily relates cash.
The Group continued to make good progress to a small number of contracts in Hong Kong, which in completing on these contracts.
As at the end of have been recorded at break-even.
Several of these December 2015, 60% of these projects were already claims are expected to reach commercial settlement at practical or financial completion, up from 31% as at in 2016.
By the end of 2016, the number of these projects at practical or financial completion is still The Group has continued to present the results of expected to be greater than 90%.
certain external legacy Engineering Services ES contracts and Rail Germany as non-underlying in the A number of significant changes were made during year.
These ES contracts were classified as nonthe year to improve the operational and financial underlying items in 2014 as they relate to poor legacy performance of the business.
The senior leadership management and in regions where ES withdrew from within the UK Regional and Engineering Services tendering for third-party work.
business has been strengthened by the appointment of a new managing director who, along with the managing director of Major Projects, now reports directly to the Group Chief Executive.
The regional business was also further streamlined, to focus on profitable markets, with a reduction in delivery units from 19 to 11.
The gated risk management framework has been 1 introduced to ensure rigour and control during both From continuing operations including the sale and delivery phases of the contract lifecycle.
share of joint ventures Financial reporting is undergoing a radical overhaul and associates, before non-underlying items.
with the introduction of Oracle R12, and new, uniform 2 Total loss from reporting dashboards have been introduced across the continuing operations business which are already starting to provide clear, was 280 million 2014: 391 million, regular reporting to senior management.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 23 The Major Projects business had a number of landmark The Major Projects business is also continuing successes in 2015, including a 416 million contract to pursue a number of major infrastructure for the construction of the six-kilometre West opportunities across the core transportation and section of Londons new super sewer, the Thames energy markets, with the largest being High Speed 2 Tideway Tunnel, as part of a joint venture with BAM HS2.
The proposed rail route will connect London, and Morgan Sindall.
Construction is expected to last Birmingham, Leeds and Manchester: construction is until 2022 and is worth approximately 139 million to scheduled to start in 2018 and will last 17 years, with Balfour Beatty.
The highways business was awarded a total estimated costs of over 50 billion.
Balfour Beatty 104 million road scheme for Norfolk County Council to and VINCI are in joint venture pursuing work on HS2, complete works on the Norwich Northern Distributor utilising the expertise acquired by both companies Road, including the construction of 19.6 kilometres on High Speed 1, VINCIs involvement on the 8bn of new dual carriageway, nine new roundabouts and Tours-Bordeaux high-speed rail project in France, and seven new bridges.
The London Olympic Stadium Balfour Beattys extensive work on transport networks transformation successfully reached its planned phase across the UK and overseas.
In December 2015 the completion in time for the stadium to host the Diamond Balfour Beatty VINCI joint venture was successfully League athletics and the Rugby World Cup events.
shortlisted for the first stage of this iconic project, for 900m of preparatory work, and is actively pursuing Included within the projects awarded but not a number of civil engineering and station packages contracted in Major Projects, the Highways business that will be awarded under long-term, collaborative was selected to deliver a smart motorway package contracts.
In addition the highways market continues to worth up to 607 million to upgrade sections of provide good growth opportunities following Highways the M5, M6 and M4, in joint venture with VINCI Englands commitment to spend 11.4 billion on capital representing the largest of Highways Englands three projects over the five-year period to 2020. packages across its 1.5 billion smart motorway programme.
Highways England also appointed a The Regional business works on a large number Balfour Beatty Carillion joint venture as preferred of smaller projects, located throughout the UK.
bidder on the 292 million construction package to Notable new contract awards in the period included widen a critical and complex 10-mile stretch of the an 80 million contract to construct the National existing A14, as part of the wider A14 Cambridge to Automotive Innovation Centre NAIC in Coventry Huntingdon improvement scheme.
Within nuclear, for the University of Warwick, a 32 million contract the business was appointed preferred bidder for the to build Baltic Triangle, a three-tower residential 460 million Hinckley Point C power station electrical development in Liverpool city centre and a 28 million package for EDF Energy, in joint venture with NG contract for the redevelopment of Dundee rail station Bailey.
The work will deliver the critical infrastructure to in Scotland.
The business enjoyed continued success power the station, including cabling totalling over 3,000 in the defence sector with the award of a 35 million kilometres in length, fire and environmental sealing and contract at RAF Brize Norton, for the construction specialist packages associated with data acquisition of a new aircraft maintenance facility, in addition to and plant control.
the ongoing construction of the Defence College of Technical Training at the former RAF Lyneham airbase.
Were redeveloping and reconfiguring the Olympic Stadium into a60,000 seat arena to host football, athletics and concerts.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 24 What weve been doing in 2015 continued Construction Services continued Included within the projects awarded but not contracted, the Regional business was appointed by the University of Manchester to deliver the bulk of its 1 billion capital programme through a partnership framework agreement along with two other contractors.
As part of the framework Balfour Beatty has been selected as construction partner on the Universitys flagship project, the 350 million Manchester Engineering Campus Development, with a full construction contract award expected in spring 2016.
In London, the business was selected to deliver pre-construction services for The Madison: a 150 million scheme for the construction of a 187 metre, 53-storey residential tower, adjacent to Canary Wharf in London Docklands, with full construction award expected in mid-2016.
The business was also selected to deliver the preconstruction services contract for a 130 million renovation and new-build scheme at No.
1 Palace Street, in St James.
Construction of the 72 apartments is due to start in early 2016.
The Regional business also secured a number of significant framework positions, including: sole contractor for a 1.5 billion framework operated by Scape Group, which is open to all public sector bodies in the UK and covers projects ranging from road repairs, new bridges and coastal defence works to light rail schemes and major road projects: andthe 800 million southern construction framework for public sector work in the South West.
US Revenues in the US grew by 3% in the period 4% decline at CER, whilst the order book increased by 11% 6% at CER.
The business reported a loss from operations for the year of 22 million 2014: 29 million profit, as losses in the first half outweighed a return to profitability in the second half.
Profitability was impacted by write-downs and provisions relating to historic issues.
A number of multifamily housing unit projects, bid primarily in 2012 and Weve built The Diamond, a multi-disciplinary teaching and 2013 by a now discontinued business unit in the South research facility in Sheffield with specialised laboratories and East, suffered subcontractor failures.
Two projects in a clean room to facilitate study andresearch.
the federal healthcare sector, which had been bid pre 2011, suffered programme overruns and subcontractor performance issues.
In addition, provisions were We recently completed the largest healthcare project included against a small number of other contracts, in the US: the New Parkland Hospital in Dallas is a primarily awarded in 2013 or earlier.
In the US approximately 85% of revenues are generated from the general building market, with the infrastructure market accounting for the remaining 15%.
In the building business, revenues were relatively stable with only a 3% decline at CER.
The order book increased by 8% at CER, as the business continued to see strong order intake despite improved bidding disciplines.
The business remains focused on working with repeat customers and where it can deliver value.
The organisational structure of the US building business was simplified to create a leaner structure, as part of the Build to Last programme, with the removal of the top layer of regional management.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 25 Notable awards included a US$268 million contract for the year included: the TW5 Cityside residential property the construction of a million-square-foot office campus development which includes the construction of seven in Plano, Texas.
The 9.3 acre campus will include residential towers, worth HK$3.2 billion 270 million : two 19-storey twin towers connected by a 4,600-car the development of 33 Tong Yin Street, including parking garage, an on-site medical centre and retail residential towers and retail areas: and the conversion space on the lower levels.
In Texas, a US$175 million of the ex-government Murray building into a hotel.
contract was awarded for a high-rise residential tower In the Middle East, the order book grew in 2015 with in Austin.
In Seattle, a US$154 million design and build significant growth in the construction joint venture contract was awarded for the King County justice in Dubai.
Wins included a contract with Meeras for a facility.
In San Francisco, a US$176 million contract mixed-use development on the Dubai Creek waterfront was awarded for a mixed-use development.
In Florida, and work on phase 1 of the Container Terminal 4 contract wins for a 50-storey luxury residential tower project at Jebel Ali Port.
Reviews of the Middle East in Miami and a new resort hotel featuring 1,000 guest historic contracts resulted in an increase in projectrooms, totalled approximately US$300 million.
specific provisions, predominantly in the mechanical In the infrastructure business, revenues were flat and electrical engineering business, for additional cost on the prior year but profitability was lower due to overruns and claim recovery shortfalls.
As a result provisions being taken against ongoing contract losses from operations in the region were 34 million disputes and favourable contract resolutions that 2014: 15 million.
The order book grew due Rail to a number of awards, including a US$582 million Revenue and the order book declined, as expected, design-build contract for the Bergstrom Expressway following the disposal of the Groups 50% stake in in Austin, Texas, awarded in joint venture with Signalling Solutions Ltd, the exit from the North-West Fluor Corporation, a US$179 million contract for the electrification project and a reduction in operations modernisation of the Rinconada water treatment plant outside the UK.
Underlying losses in the period were in California and a US$140 million contract in Denver for 5 million 2014: 6 million due to lower volumes the extension of Regional Transport Districts light-rail and as the business continued to be impacted by line across Denvers south-east suburbs.
The business poor contract performance on a small number of continued to pursue design-build and alternative rail projects.
delivery projects in its key rail, highway and water markets to reflect ongoing changes in procurement In the first half, phase 2 of the North-West trends in the marketplace.
As expected, in 2015 the electrification project reached practical completion.
market showed a considerable increase in design-build However, following a review of future schemes in procurement opportunities and a decrease in hard-bid the North-West, it was concluded that the proposed project opportunities.
alliance was unlikely to meet its stated objectives of delivering the scope of the work on time and to budget.
A new US$305 billion transportation bill was signed In July, it was agreed with Network Rail that Balfour in December 2015, providing guaranteed funding for Beatty would not continue with the alliance framework a five-year period.
Whilst funding levels were broadly for phases 3-7. held flat it is the first transportation funding bill lasting longer than two years since 2005.
This will permit In December, agreement was reached to sell parts longer-term project planning horizons in the public of the German Rail business to Tianjin Keyvia Electric market and, in due course, lead to improved visibility for Co Ltd, and this remains subject to various approvals.
public funded projects that have been slow to come to The results of Rail Germany have been presented as market.
There are good medium-term opportunities for non-underlying items within continuing operations, as the business, but there remain risks that a number of the Group remains committed to exiting the remaining new contract awards continue to slip into later years.
parts of the German rail business.
International The Group also operates in South East Asia and the Were working with Heathrow Airport to Middle East, through joint ventures.
Revenue in the maintain and upgrade Groups Hong Kong and Singapore joint venture, Terminals 1, 2 and 4, Gammon, increased by 16% 8% at CER, due in withworks ranging fromstructural particular to growth in major building projects which upgrades to multiple overtook civils to become the largest division in 2015. asset replacements Revenue benefited from new projects awarded in 2014, such as escalators and passenger conveyors, such as the Tuen Mun Area 54 housing development passenger and goods and the Hong Kong Science Park phase 3C.
Profits in lifts, air conditioning the region increased to 19 million 2014: 12 million.
systems, retail areas, CCTV and access and The order book was 13% lower at CER as the business security systems.
continued to execute on long-term major infrastructure projects, with a number reaching completion during the period.
At the end of December, the new Midfield Concourse at Hong Kong International Airport, under construction since 2011, opened to commercial flights, providing capacity for an additional 10 million passengers every year.
New awards during Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 26 What weve been doing in 2015 continued Support Services 1 Revenue Financial review The utilities business operates across power Revenue for the division fell by 1% to 1,259 million transmission and distribution and the gas and water 2014: 1,273 million, as growth in utilities was sectors.
Revenues in utilities fell due to an expected offset by a decline in transport.
Revenues in utilities decline in Power revenues whilst revenues in Gas grew by 2% as growth in Gas & Water more than & Water remained stable.
Profitability fell as a result 1,259m offset an expected decline in Power.
Revenues from of lower volumes in Power, particularly in overhead transport declined by 4%, as a decline from local lines, and due to timing differences as the utilities authority work more than offset growth in highways.
business realised lower lifecycle cost savings in the Underlying profit from operations declined to period that are now expected to be realised in future 24 million 2014: 50 million.
Profits for the year years.
This was partially offset by positive contract were impacted by a weak first half partially offset performance on completion of AMP5 water contracts 1 Order book by an improved performance in the second half.
and following mobilisation of the new AMP6 contracts.
Profitability in 2015 was lower than the prior year due to The order book remained stable as new contract 3.1bn lower volumes in the power sector, lower lifecycle cost awards in Water were offset by declines elsewhere benefits being realised and due to tough comparatives as the business continued to execute on longProfit from from the prior year, which included positive contract term contracts.
1 operations settlements and a strong performance in the Within Power, revenues and profitability declined transportation business.
24m following the completion of the Beauly Denny project The Support Services order book decreased by 11% in Scotland, lower volumes coming from the National to 3.1 billion 2014: 3.5 billion due to an expected Grid Alliance projects and the completion of other decline in transportation whilst utilities remained overhead lines projects in Scotland.
This was partially broadly stable.
The transportation order book fell offset by growth in the offshore transmission OFTO largely due to the active decision to exit from a market, following emergency cable repairs successfully poor performing local authority contract and as the completed on both the Thanet and Gwynt y Mr business continued to execute on long-term contracts.
As a result of this work the business The utilities order book remained flat as growth in was awarded a new 20-year operate and maintain water offset expected declines in gas and power.
O&M contract for the Gwynt y Mr sub-sea cables, in addition to 20-year contracts already secured for Thanet Operational review and Greater Gabbard.
The business continues to see As part of the Build to Last transformation programme, medium-term opportunities within the cabling market, the organisational structure of Support Services was as demonstrated by the award of the Nemo sub-sea simplified during the first half: the top management cable interconnector between the UK and Belgium, the layer was disbanded, with the managing directors of Groups first win in an expanding market, and preferred each business now reporting directly to the Group bidder status for the construction and maintenance Chief Executive.
This brings the Groups expertise of the cable systems for Eleclink, the Channel Tunnel closer to strategically important customers, whilst also interconnector project.
The leaner structure enables the Group to more efficiently identify and focus on growth opportunities and deliver value in complex projects, in what are increasingly challenging regulated markets.
Were partners in a strategic joint venture to provide water and waste asset solutions as part of Thames Waters superalliance.
1 From continuing operations including share of joint ventures and associates, before non-underlying items.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 27 Gas & Water revenues remained stable.
Volumes in the gas distribution strategic partnership contracts with National Grid returned to more normalised levels from the lower comparatives in 2014.
However, this was largely offset by the expected decline in revenues within the Water business as it completed work under the AMP5 regulatory cycle and transitioned to the new AMP6 regulatory cycle, which controls capital expenditure across the network from April 2015 through to 2020.
The Water business was awarded afurther contract under the AMP6 regulatory period, as a one-third partner in a joint venture, which includes Skanska and MWH Treatment, providing water asset solutions as part of Thames Waters superalliance.
This contract has a value to Balfour Beatty of approximately 265 million over the initial five years and follows on from a two-year Early Contractor Involvement phase that started in March 2013.
The Transportation business operates across rail, highways and managed road schemes for local authorities.
Revenues decreased by 4% due to a decline in local authority work whilst revenues in highways and rail remained stable.
Profitability fell slightly as an improved performance in the rail sector was offset by an expected decline in highways, whose performance was boosted by contract settlements in 2014.
The order book declined as the business continued to execute on long-term contracts and due to the exit from a poor performing local authority contract.
Highways revenues remained stable as the business continued to deliver on long-term contracts for Highways England.
New contract awards during the period included a 10-year extension to its existing contract to deliver O&M activities on a 64-mile section of the A30 A35 trunk road across Devon and Dorset.
Profitability was lower than in 2014, but this was due topositive contract settlements recognised in 2014.
Local Authority revenues declined due to reduced volumes on highways contracts and following the Were installing high-voltage electricity cables in deep underground tunnels, protecting Londons future decision to exit one contract which had suffered demand for energy.
Whilst profitability remained relatively stable, the order book declined.
com showcase At the start of 2016, the business was awarded a 245 million highways maintenance contract over Balfour Beatty carried out a land-to-sea horizontal seven years for Coventry City Council, Solihull directional drill HDD crossing to connect a 220kV cable Metropolitan Borough Council and Warwickshire between Hunterston and Kintyre inScotland.
This unique collaborative arrangement enables the business to work in partnership with the three councils as a single source service provider, and will result in better value for money, improved service resilience and flexibility in service provision.
The rail business remained stable in the period as rail renewal work for London Underground largely offset the loss of revenue from exiting the Network Rail rail renewals contract in 2014, and the completion of a rail grinding contract.
Profitability improved in the year due to higher volumes on the London Underground contract.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 What weve been doing in 2015 continued Infrastructure Investments 1 Revenue Financial review Operational review The Investments business delivered another strong The Investments business continued to grow with performance, having continued its strategy of its appointment as preferred bidder on eight new optimising value through the disposal of mature assets, projects where equity will be invested, comprising: whilst also continuing to invest in new opportunities two university student accommodation projects, 588m and expanding the breadth of assets.
three private rental housing projects, one OFTO, one healthcare project and one energy project.
Underlying profit from operations increased to The business had reached financial close on four 132 million 2014: 127 million.
The pre-disposals of these projects as at 31 December 2015, as well operating profit increased by 3 million to 37 million as reaching financial close on three of the projects 2014: 34 million.
A strong underlying operational which were already preferred bidder at the start of Directors performance, as well as lower bidding and overhead 2015.
Seven projects currently remain at preferred valuation costs, more than offset lower income from movements bidder, with investment already made into one in the fair value of PPP financial assets and recognition of these projects, located in Glasgow, in order to 1.24bn of bid costs deferred income.
Gains on disposal begin construction.
were 95 million 2014: 93 million as the business 1 Pre-tax result completed four disposals in the year, one of which The Investments business was also appointed as was a partial disposal: total disposal proceeds third-party manager on three fee-based portfolios in 161m were 145 million.
Net interest income declined to the residential sector, consisting of seven locations in 29 million 2014: 35 million due to the loss of interest Florida, where no equity will be invested, as well as one income from disposed assets.
Underlying profit before fee-based student accommodation project that reached tax remained stable at 161 million 2014: 162 million.
The Directors valuation of the Investments portfolio UK new contract wins and financial closes decreased to 1,244 million as at December 2015 The business continued to grow its presence within the 2014: 1,300 million, after realising 145 million of student accommodation sector, with the appointment disposal proceeds and 82 million of distributions, as preferred bidder on two new projects in 2015: this which were partially offset by 102 million of new brings the total number of student accommodation investments.
The number of investments within the projects in the UK and the US to nine.
In January 2015, portfolio increased to 71 2014: 66 as the business the business was appointed preferred bidder for the continued to invest in new opportunities.
University of Sussexs East Slope Residences project, for the development of 2,000 new bedrooms and other innovative student amenities.
Balfour Beatty will design, build, finance and operate the project under a 50-year contract, in partnership with the university.
In Glasgow, the business is designing, building and financing a 520-bed facility on Kennedy Street, which will also include ground floor retail spaces and a student hub.
Were delivering a 30-year concession for the financing, design, build and maintenance of the Campbell River and Comox Valley Hospitals on Vancouver Island, British Columbia.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 29 The Group has built a strong market position within the specialised, but sizeable, offshore transmission OFTO market for the provision of sub-sea cabling and substations that connect offshore wind farms to the mainland electricity grid.
In February 2015, aBalfour Beatty consortium with Equitix completed the asset purchase of the 352 million Gwynt y Mr offshore transmission project connecting the 576MW offshore wind farm to the onshore transmission grid in North Wales.
In September, the same Balfour Beatty consortium was appointed preferred bidder to own and operate the offshore transmission link for the 220MW Humber Gateway wind project over a 20-year period.
This wind farm, located in the North Sea off the coast of East Yorkshire, features 73 wind turbines that can meet the energy requirements of around 170,000 homes.
In March 2015, the business, in partnership with Places for People, signed a development agreement with the London Legacy Development Corporation to invest and construct the new East Wick and Sweetwater housing development project.
The project at Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in East London will create two new neighbourhoods with up to 1,500 homes, including 450 affordable homes, 530 homes for private sale and 500 private rented sector homes.
In the energy sector, the 52 million Welland Waste Wood power station project reached financial close in March 2015.
Once complete, the project will convert 60,000 tonnes of dry waste wood feedstock into 9MW of electricity powering over 17,000 households a year.
We delivered mechanical, electrical and process services for the leading edge facility that will carry Within healthcare, the Investments business, in outdetailed research into Graphene.
consortium with Prime and InfraRed Capital Partners was selected as preferred tenderer for the 140 million Irish Primary Care PPP project to deliver 14 primary Were delivering an innovative Public Realm contract for care centres across Ireland, in the first programme of Herefordshire County Council including highways maintenance its kind in the Republic of Irelands primary care market.
and improvement works, street lighting, street cleaning, public rights of way, parks and open spaces.
North America new contract wins and financialcloses In North America, the Investments business reached financial close on the acquisition of stakes in three private rental housing developments and reached financial close on two student accommodation projects, one of which is an expansion of an existing student accommodation project.
Balfour Beatty Communities will perform property management services for each development, leveraging the existing capabilities of the business.
These include: a 398-unit garden style apartment community in Coppell, Texas: aportfolio of five apartment communities in Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas: a 392-unit multifamily community in Rogers, Arkansas: a 595-bed student accommodation project in Dallas, Texas: and a 420-bed student accommodation expansion project in Iowa.
In addition, the Investments business reached financial close on one fee-based student accommodation project located in Texas.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 30 What weve been doing in 2015 continued Infrastructure Investments continued The Investments business continues to pursue opportunities to leverage its existing property management, customer services and related real estate capabilities from the multifamily, military, and student housing markets.
This has resulted in winning a number of fee-based residential projects, where no equity will be invested and the business acts as a thirdparty manager: three further portfolios were awarded in 2015, consisting of seven locations in Florida.
The Investments business continues to see significant opportunities for future investment in the sector as well as third-party management opportunities.
Asset sales and new investment The business continued its stated strategy of selling assets at the optimum time to maximise value for the Group.
Interests in four assets were sold in 2015, one of which was a partial disposal, generating total book gains on disposal of 95 million 2014: 93 million from three assets.
The business sold its 50% interest in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary project, 80% of its interest in the Thanet OFTO project where the Group retains a 20% interest, its 20% interest in the Aura BSF schools project in Newcastle and its 33.3% interest in the Greater Gabbard OFTO project.
All of these sales realised values consistent with the revised methodology and Directors valuation published in January 2015.
The Investments business continued to make substantial equity investments in the portfolio, with102 million invested in 2015 2014: 53 million.
The bulk of this investment was in eight projects: Gwynt y Mr OFTO: Welland Waste Wood biomass: student accommodation in Edinburgh, Glasgow and the University of Texas at Dallas: and the three private rental housing developments in North America that reached preferred bidder and financial close in the year.
A further 15 million was invested into the fund managed by Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners.
The Investments business continues to see significant opportunities for future investment in its core geographic markets in the UK and North America, across both its existing market sectors and as it continues to grow into new adjacent sectors.
We have delivered capacity improvements and ongoing maintenance and upgrades on the M25, oneof the busiest motorway networks in Europe.
com showcase Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
