36 Financial review Continuing our track record of strong performance.
In 2015, we delivered on our strategic objective of double-digit return on invested capital.
Group performance overview We delivered underlying growth in We have built a strong foundation and We have identied opportunities for revenue and operating margin, strong momentum for the next phase of our further investment to accelerate delivery cash ow and a 5% increase in dividend strategy with a strong balance sheet and of returns.
Adjusted operating profit before Textile assets and washroom equipment 144.5 149.9 exceptional items and amortisation Plant, machinery and vehicles 32.7 30.7 of customer contracts was down Land and buildings 6.2 4.8 3% to 153.8 million 158.7 million.
Total 183.4 185.4 The negative impact of currency translation decreased revenue and Based on note 10 of the group financial statements and includes finance lease additions.
adjusted operating profit by 71.4 million and 13.5 million respectively compared to last year.
Excluding currency We incurred exceptional costs of Amortisation of acquired customer translation and the contribution from 0.9 million nil in relation to the contracts was 14.4 million 21.5 million.
acquisitions, underlying revenue grew implementation of our strategic Operating profit after exceptional items, 3% and adjusted operating profit grew initiatives.
These relate to recruitment goodwill impairment and amortisation 5%.
The negative impact of currency and programme management costs, was 132.1 million 137.2 million and translation was apparent throughout as well as some restructuring in our profit before tax was 113.4 million 2015 as sterling strengthened against business lines to reect the new 117.0 million.
Basic earnings per share the currencies in which we operate priorities.
As previously announced, we were 51.9 pence compared with 52.6 in Continental Europe.
We delivered expect to incur a total of 5-10 million pence in 2014. a 30 bps improvement in adjusted of one-off cash costs in implementing Our free cash ow was 102.5 million in operating margin, reecting strong our strategy over the next 24 months 2015 122.6 million, a conversion of 99% margin improvement in our Continental to establish our business line structure of group adjusted profit after tax with European businesses as a whole.
and invest in capabilities to deliver on our net capital expenditure down on the growth opportunities available to Our net finance expense was last year at 173.9 million 179.5 million us.
We expect the additional ongoing 18.7 million, a decrease from but above depreciation of 168.2 million cost of building this capability and 20.2 million last year as a result of our 174.8 million.
Investment in textiles investment in our new business lines to strong cash ow and lower average was 144.5 million 149.9 million be approximately 2 million in 2016. interest rate.
In March, we successfully reecting a good level of new contract concluded the renegotiation of our As part of our strategy update, we activity.
Plant investments amounted to Revolving Credit Facility RCF with 37.4 million, compared to 33.3 million reviewed the market structure of each a new 510 million facility extending of our businesses and the opportunities last year, as we continued to upgrade out to March 2020 with the possibility our UK Workwear plants, add capacity for growth and profit improvement.
to extend for a further two years.
We characterised the market structure in in our Flat Linen plants outside the UK to This replaced existing facilities which accommodate the significant contract Germany Healthcare to be aggressively were due to expire in July 2016.
The total competitive and while we have good gains and make further investments in facilities available to the group are technology in our Cleanroom plants.
management and are making significant 834 million with our new RCF and our progress in our growth and profit We have completed the expansion of private placements notes extending improvement plans, there remains our plant in the Czech Republic and have from 2016 to 2025.
The average xed substantial free capacity within our invested in capacity upgrades in Poland, interest rate on our borrowings is 4.1% plants, which we believe will take some where we continue to see excellent and we took the opportunity in 2015 to time to ll.
Following this review we growth.
We remain well invested to pre-fund the maturity of our May and announced at the beginning of 2016, the serve our business today and have an December 2016 US private placement closure of one of our German Healthcare excellent footprint across the markets notes at substantially lower rates.
plants where the services provided we serve.
We have also identied did not meet the requirements of our Adjusted profit before tax was opportunities to accelerate the delivery core portfolio and profit improvement 135.1 million compared to 138.5 million of returns in certain of our key markets agenda.
Accordingly, in evaluating the last year and adjusted earnings per where the momentum of the business goodwill related to this business for share were 60.4 pence 62.1 pence.
We will target higher levels impairment this year, as required by Our effective tax rate on adjusted profit of plant investment in UK and German accounting standards, we applied a before taxation was 23.4%, similar to last Workwear over the next 24 months, higher risk factor and this resulted in an year.
We expect the tax rate for 2016 to to capture the margin improvements impairment charge of 6.4 million this be at a similar level.
available from extending our CL2000 year, after which the goodwill in this part operating model.
In Cleanroom, where of the business has been fully written we have excellent revenue growth based down.
This charge is shown as part of on deep customer relationships, we see exceptional costs.
opportunities to expand our footprint.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 38 Financial review continued Overall, we expect net capital We seek to create value by increasing In addition, our return on operating expenditure to be ahead of depreciation our return on invested capital in line capital, which is before goodwill in 2016 and our free cash conversion with our strategic objectives: we aim and other intangible assets related to be in the range of 75%-90% of our to increase our returns by growing to acquisitions and reect the highadjusted profit after tax.
revenues and margins and managing level of returns available from organic our invested capital by converting our investment, was 26.5% 25.5%.
We purchased shares for the Employee growth to cash.
This year, we increased benefit Trust amounting to 14.2 million The board is recommending a final our return on invested capital ROIC and we contributed an additional dividend of 21.5 pence, which, together by 40bps from 9.9% last year to 3.7million to the UK pension fund in with the interim dividend of 10 pence 10.3%.
Since the announcement of our the year.
We are not planning for further paid in October 2015, gives a total of Strategic Review in 2010, our return additional contributions to pension in 31.5 pence: an increase of 5% on last has increased by 290 bps from 7.4% 2016 pending the results of our triennial years level.
The final dividend will be and we have delivered on our objective valuation which is due in late 2016. paid on 6 May 2016 to shareholders on of double-digit returns.
We intend to At 31 December 2015, the pension the register at the close of business on maintain ROIC at double-digit at the accounting surplus for the group was 8 April 2016. same time as increasing our investment 15.8 million 1.0 million surplus at the in the business.
Net borrowings at 31 December 2015 Committed funding were 370.9 million 31 December As at As at 2014: 374.4 million, reecting strong 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 cash ow conversion, with dividends m m paid of 52.1 million and 9.2 million on 510m revolving credit facility March 2020 376 399 acquisitions, as we acquired the assets $200m US private placement notes 20162018 135 129 and customer contracts of a UK Hotel laundry and also invested in small bolt- $259m and 25m private placement notes 20162021 200 192 on acquisitions in Denmark.
There was DKK654.8m and 79.7m private placement notes 2025 123 an adverse currency movement of Total 834 720 17.4 million largely as a result of the retranslation of the US dollar component of our US private placement notes.
Return on invested capital average These have been swapped to euro, 2014 Danish krone and Swedish krona, the 2015 restated m m currencies in which we fund our business and the positive impact of retranslation NOPAT return to these underlying currencies is shown Adjusted operating profit 153.8 158.7 in derivative assets on our balance Add back: Pension interest less returns oninvestment 1.4 1.8 sheet.
The covenants on our RCF reect adjustment to the underlying currencies.
Less tax at effective rates 35.8 36.8 The group retains a strong balance Net operating profit after tax 116.6 120.1 sheet with funding and exibility Operating capital and Invested capital for future growth and a ratio of net Total equity 494.2 525.0 debt to earnings before exceptional Add back: items, interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA of 1.0 times Net debt 395.0 396.3 2014: 1.1 times, compared with the Retirement benefit obligations 10.8 9.0 RCF covenant level of not more than Derivatives 52.4 5.1 three and a quarter times.
We have total private placement notes of 458 million Intangible Assets 385.8 436.8 and the groups bank facilities extend to Operating capital 440.2 470.4 March 2020 and amount to 376 million, of which 336 million was undrawn at Add back: the year end.
Intangible assets including goodwill previously written-off, amortisation and other 690.8 743.9 Average invested capital 1131.0 1214.3 Return on operating capital post tax 26.5% 25.5% Return on invested capital post tax 10.3% 9.9% Based on 12-month average.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 39 We see significant opportunity to We are pleased to report that the Core growth continue to grow well in Workwear.
operating margin of our UK and It is the largest of our business lines, German businesses has now reached Workwear operating in a well-established 17% in combination, up 500bps from outsourcing market with 3.5 billion 2010.
In the UK, we have seen further of addressed opportunity across productivity improvements from the all the territories in which we operate.
three plants operating under CL2000, We see a significant proportion enabling consolidation of our plant of this market potential from those in Croydon during the year at a cost who do not currently outsource of 2.1 million, which was charged to and this virgin opportunity of operating profit in the first half of the 1.6 billion is biggest in the UK and year.
In the second half of 2015, we Germany which we are targeting for announced that our fourth CL2000 further investment.
plant will be in Durham where we have acquired a new site to build a state-ofWe are well positioned to capitalise the-art facility.
We will close our existing on this potential.
Our CL 2000 model, site in the area, having realised a profit based on customer-specic workow, of 2.0 million on the sale of that site, allows us to provide solutions to offsetting the plant closure costs of individual customer needs with higher Croydon in the first half.
levels of service, productivity and efficiency than traditional mechanised In Germany, our revenue growth was laundry ows.
Improved market 9% and this continues to be the highest segmentation is driving successful level of growth for the business line, 2015 performance targeting of large and mid-sized driven primarily by increases in market companies where the levels of service share through our differentiated 304.6m 3% complexity are higher and our solutions approach.
Ongoing productivity Revenue are most valuable to the customer, improvements delivered a double-digit allowing us to differentiate further increase in operating profit and strong our offering from the competition.
65.3m 7% This business line is making good In the last three years, we have Operating profit progress in dening our next generation converted five plants to CL2000 across CL model, CL 3.0, which will further the division with proven benets to streamline the end-to-end management 21.4% 50bps customer service, productivity and of our service to the customer and Operating margin margin.
We believe we now have the capitalise further on the application experience and capability to accelerate Underlying growth at constant currency.
Central to the pace of development and we are this will be enhanced service delivery planning to convert 12 plants over the with investment in online solutions and Revenue was 304.6 million next three years.
This investment will key account management.
314.4 million, with adjusted operating be focused on the UK and Germany profit at 65.3 million 65.7 million.
We are innovators in our markets where we are targeting to swiftly close The adjusted operating margin increased and our Product Design Centre the margin gap to our Best Practice 50bps to 21.4%.
On an underlying in Sweden continues to address countries, which currently stands currency basis revenue was up 3% with regulatory requirements and produce 800bps higher.
In addition, at the start adjusted operating profit up 7%.
bespoke solutions for customer-specic of 2015, we transferred management requirements, for example in the of our Workwear business in Ireland to food industry.
The standard product our Workwear business line team: this collections from our Design Centre transition has gone well, and Ireland is represent almost half of all new now performing ahead of plan and we contract sales, leading to greater see further opportunity to drive best utility for the customer and efficiencies practice improvements and profitability for order processing and lead times in this region.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 40 Financial review continued Economic activity in our Best Practice Our Cleanroom business, a leader in its Core growth countries, Denmark, Sweden and market where customers require a very Holland, was mixed.
We saw limited high integrity service, has a significant momentum overall, but we did achieve Facility opportunity to move with its customers good progress in Sweden where to new markets.
These customers GDP growth was around 3%.
Here we operate primarily in highly regulated delivered a 5% increase in revenue, pharmaceutical or technology sites demonstrating the leverage of the and we offer a unique platform with a business to economic growth even in a network of back-up facilities to deliver well-developed market.
We are pleased superior service.
Our expertise is in with the level of new sales in Denmark managing contamination control in where customers who are new to the cleanroom environments and we are outsourcing model accounted for 82% expanding the tool kit of solutions of new contracts.
We held our position we offer our customers.
This is in Holland, despite the fact that this enabled through our plant structure continues to be a highly competitive which, like Workwear, is based on the and more challenging market.
These countries also benefited from a Cleanroom delivered excellent doublefocus on operational improvements, digit organic revenue growth and margin increasing productivity and growing improvement in 2015, with a strong margins, as we continue to leverage pipeline of contracts and enhanced the opportunities inherent in our solutions to existing customers.
In Germany, we are winning a high level 2015 performance of new contracts and this, together with on-going operational focus, contributed 224.3m 4% to an improved margin which is moving Revenue closer to the average for this business activity.
Our UK Cleanroom acquisition is performing ahead of our expectations.
58.1m 6% As announced in our Strategy Update, Operating profit we will be targeting future investment in both new capacity in Germany and the UK, along with upgrades in Denmark and 25.9% 0bps Sweden, to capture the opportunities Operating margin available to us in the Cleanroom market.
Underlying growth at constant currency.
In Mats and Washroom, our markets are growing and favourable outsourcing Reported revenue was 224.3 million trends provide opportunities to grow 237.7 million with adjusted operating in virgin markets, where we estimate profit, at 58.1 million 61.6 million, that there is almost 0.7 billion of down 6%.
Innovation is at the heart of margin was consistent with last year our Mats and Washroom businesses, and at 25.9%.
On an underlying constant focuses on the growing awareness of currency basis excluding acquisitions, the importance of safety, cleanliness and revenue grew by an encouraging 4% hygiene in public places.
and adjusted operating profit was up 6%.
We made progress in each of the three operating units within Facility: Cleanroom, Mats and Washroom, all of which have leading market positions.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 41 In Mats, which is over half the revenue A number of our larger contracts in the Core growth of the Business Line and has the greater facilities management segment, where scale and density necessary to deliver price competition is greatest, were higher margins, we continue to improve renegotiated in 2015.
While we remain UK Flat Linen the business mix with a higher level committed to this segment, we are of sales of premium categories in all increasing our focus on higher integrity markets and we continue to increase the customers and on supporting our eld number of mats at existing customer salesforce.
In order to facilitate this focus sites.
Further, we introduced our new we have also appointed a Business Unit zone concept focusing on unmet needs Director of Washroom services who will for mat solutions inside the buildings lead this business within Facility.
in addition to the typical entrance Overall our Mat and Washroom zone solution.
This has resulted in a businesses contract base expanded, with broader portfolio of services, meeting solid growth in Sweden and improving the individual customers needs.
In our activity in Denmark.
Progress continued emerging markets, we invested in to be slower in Holland and Norway, additional sales capacity, and this was with the latter being impacted by the rewarded with higher growth rates.
We put a number In the Danish market, we introduced of initiatives in place to address this our new microber mat with greater and consequently we saw improved absorbency and durability.
We have performance in the second half.
In our been very pleased with the take up of emerging Central European markets, this premium product, which we will we saw double-digit revenue growth 2015 performance now roll out in several other markets and margin improvement, and we are in 2016.
As announced in our Strategy pleased with the progress made by these Update and in order to facilitate further 210.1m -0.1% businesses in underdeveloped markets.
development of the Mats business we Revenue We completed a 2 million investment to have appointed a Business Unit Director extend our plant in the Czech Republic of Mats services, who will lead this and we have also planned capacity business within the Facility Business Line.
22.8m -14% upgrades in Poland to capture the Operating profit In Washroom, we have seen good further opportunities available to us.
growth in our full service product packages, adding profitability to our 10.9% -190bps services.
We are further differentiating Operating margin our sales efforts with greater success being delivered from our eld salesforce Underlying growth at constant currency.
which is selling to smaller customer establishments where the level of Revenue in 2015 was 1% ahead of the administration in managing the service prior year at 210.1 million 207.5 million effectively in-house is a greater burden.
and adjusted operating profit lower at 22.8 million 26.5 million.
The adjusted At the same time we are seeing more operating margin was 10.9% 12.8%.
demand for innovation from those Revenue growth was impacted by the customers where maintaining high extra billing week in 2015 and adjusting hygiene standards and integrity is critical, for this, underlying revenue and adjusted such as in food processing.
We have revenue was unchanged and operating introduced the Berendsen LightGuide profit down 14%.
system which guides the user through the use of the washroom services.
Here, we have demonstrated to customers that there is a 30% increase in hygiene routines after introduction.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 42 Financial review continued Niels Peter Hansen was appointed New outsourcing activity continued Manage for value Managing Director of Hospitality at the to be limited but we won some new start of 2016.
Niels Peter is leading a contracts that were already in the development team to define a leading, market.
We continue to believe that Flat Linen outside customer-specic, workow for our increased outsourcing will provide the the UK hospitality customers.
His team is drawn NHS Trusts with good opportunities from each of our UK and Scandinavian to make savings.
We are focused on hospitality units and also includes a continuous operational improvements to number of process experts.
Our research help improve profitability in this business shows that customers demand a exible line.
We believe the move to a business and individually tailored linen service line structure for Healthcare will allow which is aligned to their own brand us to deliver hygiene and cleanliness values.
The acquisition in the year of promises to hospitals and offer fuller the assets and contract base of White service solutions to meet our customers Knight Laundry Services UK provides needs.
Our pilot programme, based us with additional capacity and a laundry in South London, to deliver services system that delivers the sophisticated to the large and as yet untapped care linen processing technology needed to home market is progressing well and provide this level of service, efficiently we are allocating resource to accelerate and with higher levels of productivity.
development of a scalable solution for We are looking to improve the our service and operating model.
acquired business as we work towards delivering the superior operating model.
We are also trialling the use of ultra-high frequency chip technology RFID for 2015 performance improved tracking and identication of linen, which will assist in improving linen utilisation.
The contract churn in 195m 5% UK hotels, which has been previously Revenue reported, impacted the business line results in the first half of the year having 13.7m 16% exited a major national contract at Operating profit the end of the first half last year and the start-up of new contract wins this year resulting in higher depreciation.
7.0% 70bps There were several new contract wins Operating margin in the second half, particularly with budget hotel groups, which led to Underlying growth.
some improvement but there will be a period of rebuilding in this part of the Revenue in our Flat Linen businesses portfolio as we align it to the broader outside the UK was 195.0 million Business Line.
207.2 million and adjusted operating In Healthcare, we made good progress profit was up to 13.7 million in generating add-on sales from existing 13.1 million.
On an underlying constant contracts, with continued product and currency basis, revenue grew 5% and service innovations to hospitals and adjusted operating profit was up 16%.
The adjusted operating margin increased by 70bps to 7.0%.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 43 The businesses in this segment We saw good revenue growth in our Manage for value demonstrated that they have decontamination business with new opportunities to grow within their volume from existing contracts and the markets, which further supports Clinical start-up of a significant new contract.
their integration into the business line Our service levels are strong and we are Solutions and structure as we progress through 2016. discussing our service offering with a number of potential new customers to Decontamination In our Hotels market underlying revenue utilise available capacity at our existing increased following the good contract sites.
We are pleased with the progress wins, particularly in Scandinavia hotels, being made and the business continues and the sharing of best practice which, to grow its profits.
In the clinical solutions combined, led to improved margins.
business, sales of consumables and Scandinavian hotels are organised under single use drapes and gowns were up, shared management which will facilitate but revenue from re-usable textiles was our new Business Line structure, and this slightly reduced due to lower volumes, has benefited our customers through which adversely impacted the level higher levels of service and improved of profitability.
These contract successes have improved our market position and, Summary and outlook for following the downsizing of a competitor thegroup in Sweden, we took the opportunity to invest in additional plant capacity.
We are pleased to report good Higher volumes and a continuous focus operational progress for the year, in line on operational improvements helped to with our expectations.
we presented our Strategy Update reconrming significant market We are pleased with our overall opportunities and announcing the move progress in Healthcare, where we 2015 performance to a revised four Business Line structure saw modest revenue growth and to accelerate the pace of delivery.
improved profitability compared to During the course of 2016, we will be 72m 1% last year.
Our markets were more focused on completing the Business Line Revenue challenging during the year as a structure and on implementing a series result of pricing pressure as contracts of new initiatives designed to capture came up for renewal.
The Healthcare 5.2m -5% these growth opportunities.
The Board markets have benefited from significant Operating profit expects to achieve a further year of innovation and high levels of service good underlying progress in 2016. and we are undertaking a review to ensure that our services are properly 7.2% -50bps aligned to customer need and that Operating margin we are appropriately rewarded where we deliver added value through a Underlying growth.
Revenue was 72.0 million 71.5 million with adjusted operating profit of 5.2 million 5.5 million and adjusted operating margin was 7.2%.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
