Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Review Income Statement Another strong performance Operating margin despite unprecedented adverse The Group has increased its operating margin by 460 bps since 2010.
This has exchange rate movements.
been achieved through pricing, portfolio Revenue and profit development through GDBs, tight cost control, factory rationalisation, the fromoperations implementation of the new operating model, A very good financial performance was systems standardisation and productivity offset by continued adverse exchange rate savings.
In 2015, adjusted profit from movements, with an adverse translational operations, as a percentage of net revenue, impact of 12%.
Reported revenue was grew on an underlying basis by around down by 6.2% from 13,971 million to 160bps.
On a reported basis, it fell by 60bps 13,104 million.
Reported profit from Ben Stevens to 38.1%, mainly as a result of the impact of operations was 0.2% higher at 4,557 million, Finance Director exchange rates on the Groups cost of sales.
reflecting the impact of foreign exchange movements on the reported results, being Adjusting items Highlights partly offset by the charge in 2014 related to During 2015, the Group continued to incur non-tobacco litigation that does not repeat.
Group revenue was down as exchange costs that do not relate to the day-to-day rate movements and volume offset the To better evaluate the underlying performance operations of the business.
The adjustments impact of pricing.
Revenue was 5.4% of the business, management reviews the made to profit from operations are separately higher at constantrates of exchange.
results by adjusting for a number of items disclosed as memorandum information either relating to restructuring and integration costs on the face of the Income Statement or within Adjusted profit from operations at and one-off charges, provisions and income the segmental analysis.
constant rates of exchange increased see page 35.
We call the underlying profit by4.0%.
The Group incurred restructuring and after adjusting for these items, which are integration costs of 367 million in 2015 Adjusted diluted earnings per share described further below, adjusted profit from mainly in respect of the restructuring initiatives grewby 0.1% to 208.4p per share.
Adjusted profit from operations directly related to the implementation of was 4,992 million, 7.6% lower than in 2014.
At constant rates, adjusted diluted the new operating model, the continuation In order to assess the underlying performance, earnings per share were 10.1% higher of the factory closure in Australia, certain we also have to view the business results at229.1p.
costs related to the acquisitions undertaken at constant rates of exchange, excluding including TDR in Croatia, and restructurings Dividends for 2015 up by 4.0% to the translational impact of exchange rate in Indonesia, Canada, Switzerland and 154.0p per share.
This does not adjust for the Germany.
These were offset by gains on transactional effects of currency fluctuations Free cash flow of 3,481 million with the sale of land and buildings in Australia.
on the cost of items such as leaf, filter tow free cash flow per share equal to 90% The items also cover cost of initiatives in andwrapping materials.
of adjusted diluted earnings per share.
respect of permanent headcount reductions Excluding adjusting cash, this was 80%.
The Groups strong underlying performance and permanent employee benefit reductions for the year is demonstrated by the growth inthe Group.
The Group invested US$4.7 billion in cash of 5.4% in revenue and 4.0% in adjusted to maintain its shareholding in Reynolds profit from operations, at constant rates.
American Inc. RAI, after RAIs acquisition Excluding the above transactional exchange of Lorillard Inc. and invested 1.7 billion effect, adjusted operating profit would have to acquire the shares not already owned increased by approximately 10%.
by the Group in Souza Cruz.
More details of the Groups adjusted The Group completed the acquisition of operating performance can be found in TDR in Croatia 550 million and CHIC theregional review see pages 2427. in Poland.
