Performance review Panama We increased our focus on the B2B segment with the acquisition of Sonitel, one of the leading IT integration companies which perfectly complements our Telco solutions and provides a new portfolio of opportunities in that very important segment of the market.
Agustin fide la Guardia, CEO, Panama Our Cable and Wireless Panama business In May 2014, we launched a mobile Panama CWP had another solid year of revenue money service, MovilCash, and we have Operational review growth, as demand for our mobile data also complemented this with strategic services grew rapidly and we made good partnerships with the Metro systems progress with our broadband and TV services.
nationwide, allowing them the facility to We increased our focus on the B2B segment accept payments using this service.
with the acquisition of Sonitel, one of the We also continued our strong support of leading IT integration companies which community projects, including our tenth perfectly complements our Telco solutions annual National Oratory Contest, a public and provides a new portfolio of opportunities speaking competition targeting thousands in that very important segment of the of high school students.
Additionally, Sonitel has operations in Peru, El Salvador and Nicaragua, expanding We were recognised by the Great Place To our geographical footprint in the Latin Work Institute for maintaining a high level of America region.
engagement among our team members and for having a dynamic and productive culture.
In order to maintain our leadership position in the mobile market and the pace of innovation, we recently launched our LTE mobile network the first for Panama.
This cutting edge technology will improve data experience for all our customers.
We also introduced the innovative Prepaid CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL Satellite TV which has been generating very good results, allowing CWP national reach and We were looking for a reliable flexibility without the need to build a network.
communications provider capable of helping us to satisfy our operating and customers needs.
Cable & Wireless Panamas reputation, along with their comprehensive proposal, gave us the sophisticated product offering which met our expectations.
After consultation with our executive and technical teams, there was no doubt that we were making the right decision.
We are confident that ourguests will have access to the best communications network and technology while staying with us.
CWPanama launched MovilCash, a mobile money Kathya Vega, Corporate General Manager service.
of VC Hotels Group: owner of the new Ramada Panama Centro, Panama City.
Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9 30 Cable & Wireless Communications Revenue at US$636 million was US$60 million Gross margin at US$413 million was up 5% Panama higher than the prior year, with US$44 million on the prior year and 65% as a percentage Financial review of this growth in the Managed Services of revenue.
segment due to the acquisition of Sonitel in Operating costs were up 11% against the September 2014. prior year.
This was primarily due to the 30% growth in TV subscribers Mobile revenue at US$351 million was up inclusion of Sonitels cost base: increased 4% against prior year with subscribers up advertising spend as we launched improved by 126,000, driven by prepaid activations, broadband services, and revamped our TV 10% growth in revenue including data plans as we launched new offering: executed brand unification within our products such as day passes and cap consumer businesses: increased marketing boosters.
Data revenue was up 25% against spend and increased the minimum wage of up the prior year, more than offsetting an 8% to 15%, due to restructuring costs.
However, decline in voice revenue.
Data penetration we implemented programmes focused on of our customer base increased by 13 increasing productivity which partially offset percentage points in the year to 52% as a these factors.
greater variety of data plans stimulated both The resulting EBITDA of US$241 million was prepaid and postpaid usage.
Mobile ARPU 1% better than the prior year on a reported was lower than prior year, due to lower rates Year Year basis with a margin of 38% as a percentage as a result of competitive pressures, lower ended ended of revenue.
31 Mar 31 Mar % roaming traffic and voice substitution.
2015 2014 change CWCs proportionate ownership of Panama Broadband revenue grew US$2 million against EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2015 Subscribers 000s the prior year, as subscribers were up 1% and 1 was 49%.
TV revenue was Broadband 132 131 1% US$3 million, 16% better than prior year, TV 56 43 30% primarily due to a 30% increase in subscribers.
Fixed 366 372 -1% During the year, we also launched a prepaid, 2 ARPU US$ Direct To Home DTH TV product, which Mobile 13.9 14.7 -5% enabled us to access customers in more Broadband 29.2 28.8 2% remote areas of the country.
TV 33.7 33.6 0% Fixed voice revenue of US$106 million was Fixed 24.1 25.2 -4% 6% below the prior year as competitive Revenue US$m 636 576 10% pressure led to a reduction in national traffic LFL revenue 592 576 3% as substitution to mobile continued.
Our triple EBITDA US$m 241 239 1% play offering reduced the impact of this Proportionate substitution with 82% of our customers EBITDA 118 117 1% taking more than one fixed service from us.
Margin % 38% 41% -3ppt Managed Services and other revenue grew 5% excluding the impact of Sonitel.
1 Active subscribers are defined as those having performed a revenue-generating activity in the As is common in the first year of a new previous 60 days FY 2014 2015 restated.
government, there were delays in the 2 ARPUs for 2014 restated for reclassified business awarding of contracts but we expect this revenue for Managed Services to broadband and fixed line.
to change during the next fiscal year.
