Performance review LIME L IME has seen a significant turnaround in the past year, with growing revenues and lower operating costs.
This is the result of major investments, process efficiency, improved network performance and new innovative products.
We have executed the turnaround plan articulated last year which has improved customer experience and strengthened LIMEs market position.
Martin Roos, CEO, LIME Caribbean Last year we started work on a turnaround Based on the investments and improved LIME plan for LIME.
This year saw the plan start to customer experience, we launched a region Operational review deliver.
Revenue growth returned and EBITDA wide marketing campaign under the theme margin moved from 25% to 34%.
This included a complete improvement was driven by significant upgrade of the visual identity bringing network improvements, stronger customer consistency throughout the islands.
We also experience, a fresh new approach to launched a new website, new store, look and marketing and cost reduction initiatives.
feel, new livery and new high-quality imagery, all managed through a new highly advanced LIME made significant investments in mobile digital asset management system.
In mobile, LIME launched HSPA in seven of our 13 markets and The campaign resulted in LIME receiving an completed HSPA capacity upgrades in all unprecedented 16 ADDY awards at the islands.
We also successfully launched LIMEs annual industry awards run by the American second LTE network in Antigua and Barbuda.
We also increased our For our fixed networks, we accelerated our social media engagement and achieved top transition to fibre.
Island-wide fibre and VDSL rankings in customer engagement surveys.
deployments were completed in Barbados and Cayman, enabling 100MB speeds and an improved IPTV experience.
Extensive fibre upgrades were delivered in Turks and Caicos, The British Virgin Islands and Anguilla giving customers a six-fold increase in speed.
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL The new networks, combined with other operations and maintenance improvements, B2B customer resulted in a c. 95% reduction in network Global Connect has improved our critical downtime due to major faults.
applications performances as well as our ability to monitor our WAN infrastructure.
Our outage time has been minimal and service performance is excellent.
Rubis has been using the solution for over three years and it has reduced support time in terms of man hours required to resolve issues which result in reduced support cost for our company.
Mark A Peter Bentham, Information Technology Manager at Rubis Eastern Caribbean SRL Our mobile networks in all 13 LIME markets Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9 upgraded to deliver HSPA service.
28 Cable & Wireless Communications We started a more systematic method by average revenue per user ARPU increase of LIME measuring customer sentiment this year, 16%.
We slowed down the decline in fixed Financial review introducing Net Promotor Score NPS telephony revenue by introducing new value measurements, to track the likelihood of propositions for international and local traffic.
The NPS Customers are retaining their fixed line: the results over the year showed improvement decline of our fixed customer base was flat 40% growth in EBITDA across all markets except Dominica, Grenada year over year.
and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, either Our strategic focus on business and 11% growth in mobile subscribers closing the gap, or surpassing our enterprise segments began to show results.
Jamaica showed We protected our market position, winning exceptionally strong NPS scores, evidence of back customers and securing significant new the positive change in our market position and contracts.
The year also saw a return to our Jamaican turnaround.
corporate acquisitions after a four-year break, with the acquisition of a wireless broadband operator in Jamaica and a mobile operator in Turks and Caicos Islands.
Year Year CWCs proportionate ownership of LIME ended ended EBITDA is 89% for the year ended 31 Mar 31 Mar % 31 March 2015.
2015 2014 change Subscribers 000s 1 Mobile 1,328 1,198 11% CUSTOMER TESTIMONIALS Broadband 224 218 3% TV 27 24 14% MyLIME Self Service App: Fixed 578 580 0% Great app!
This app has made it easy for 2 Improved network performance and customer ARPU US$ meto keep track of everything and buy experience won us 130,000 more mobile customers.
Broadband 35.7 37.4 -5% Shadina Williams, LIME Customer on TV 23.9 24.7 -3% Google Play reviews.
With improved network performance and Fixed 28.4 29.6 -4% A s soon as I opened the app I loved that it customer experience we won an extra Revenue US$m 709 691 3% showed my balance and that I can top up 130,000 mobile customers during the year LFL revenue 709 677 5% through the app.
by focusing on driving affordable, high-value EBITDA US$ 238 170 40% Awesome.
Jey Blessed, LIME Customer smartphone sales, alongside new data plans Proportionate on Google Play reviews.
HSPA EBITDA 211 150 41% smartphones now represent 73% of handset Great app.
User interface is Margin % 34% 25% 9ppt sales and smartphone penetration among our simple and shows me exactly what I need customers has almost doubled.
Also much easier to top up and 1 Active subscribers are defined as those having drive data growth, we launched a self-service activate data plans.
Jason Cayenne, performed a revenue-generating activity in the previous 60 days.
Historic subscriber numbers have application that is also a sales channel for LIME Customer on Google Play reviews.
been restated to exclude subscribers with credit mobile data and roaming plans.
These balances but no activity in the proceeding 60 days.
Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9 initiatives have substantially increased our 2 ARPU is the average revenue per user in a month, excluding equipment sales.
mobile data revenue and underpinned a data Annual Report 2014 15 29
