Performance review Seychelles We recorded our tenth consecutive year of top line growth.
We consolidated our position as the leader in mobile, broadband, internet and fixed voice.
Charles Hammond, CEO, Seychelles Seychelles remains part of our continuing by upselling on internet services and winning Seychelles operations and performed well during the the contracts of two new hotels this year.
We are expanding and We introduced hosting services and enhancing our network capacity and reliability developed our national and international to provide faster data services.
We are managed lease line services.
making a positive impact every day by being Our commitment to our community remains one of the most valued and respected as strong as ever.
We signed an extension to organisations in our community.
an existing Memorandum Of Understanding Over the period, the Seychelles Rupee MOU to provide free broadband services devalued by 10%, however, we recorded to all Government schools in Seychelles.
This our tenth consecutive year of top line growth programme is now in its tenth year.
We consolidated our Mobile data services revenue was up 7% on position as the leader in mobile, broadband, the prior year at constant currency with the internet and fixed voice.
launch of our LTE network with limited sites.
We were awarded an IPTV licence and will launch services at the end of the first half of calendar year 2015.
Our goal is to be the market leader in the provision of media and entertainment services within three years of our launch of the IPTV service.
Today, about 50% of our business contribution comes from roaming and international voice interconnects.
The emergence of our IPTV service will help to reduce our reliance on this declining revenue stream.
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL With the growing demand for data and video Fregate Island Private is one of the most service on fixed and mobile platforms, we luxurious private islands in the world, invested to expand capacity in our fixed and delivering extraordinary service to our mobile networks.
We also invested in security exceptional clients.
We needed to align our and back-up platforms to keep our networks, business with the most reliable network data and customers data safe.
and best partner available for world-class support in our unique remote location.
We introduced self-service tools such as This is why we utilise Cable & Wireless Cable Kiosk, freestanding machines with Seychelles exclusively.
touch screens that enable customers to buy consumer products and services and to settle Wayne Kafcsak, Managing Director, their bills at their convenience.
Our online Fregate Island Private, Seychelles.
web payment service was also launched with a local bank this year.
Our services are used exclusively by more than 95% of the resorts and hotels in Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9 Seychelles.
We strengthened our position 34 Cable & Wireless Communications Revenue at US$52 million was 2% down on Operating costs decreased by 4% to Seychelles prior year as the Seychelles Rupee declined US$25 million.
At constant currency, Financial review by 10% against the US Dollar.
At constant operating costs would have increased by currency revenue would have increased 4% mainly because the company recorded by 8%.
significant foreign currency revaluation gains in prior year of US$1 million.
8% like-for-like revenue growth At constant currency, mobile revenue at US$29 million increased by 4% on prior year EBITDA decreased 5% to US$19 million a decline of 6% at prevailing exchange rates 12% or US$2 million more at constant 4% increase mobile subscribers as demand for mobile data usage increased, currency.
The EBITDA margin decreased by it was offset by a drop in mobile voice activity.
1 percentage point to 36.5% when compared We experienced 7% growth in mobile to prior year.
The growth in data usage is CWCs ownership of Cable and Wireless expected to continue as our customer value Seychelles EBITDA for the entire financial year propositions become more attractive in the was 100%.
coming year and our LTE network extends to cover over 50% of subscribers.
Total number of subscribers increased by 4%.
Broadband revenue increased by 10% the prior year to US$11 million, driven mainly by the business customers.
At constant currency, broadband would have risen by 22%.
The Year Year Broadband ARPU improved by 3% 12% at ended ended 31 Mar 31 Mar % constant rates reflecting successful upselling 2015 2014 change of higher bandwidth capacities.
We have now established the business as the number one Subscribers 000s 1 choice for Managed Services and Mobile 87 83 4% Government customers in the country.
Broadband 7 7 0% Fixed 17 17 0% Fixed voice showed a larger decline at 11% 2 ARPU US$ flat at constant currency on prior year.
Mobile 28.5 30.9 -8% Average incoming voice termination rates Broadband 130.2 126.6 3% were lower than in the prior year as a larger Fixed 36.4 43.5 -16% proportion of voice calls continue to migrate Revenue US$m 52 53 -2% towards the Internet.
LFL revenue 52 48 8% Managed Services and other revenue grew EBITDA US$m 19 20 -5% by 33% to US$4 million as the company Proportionate entered the hosting and international MPLS EBITDA 19 20 -5% businesses.
Margin % 37% 38% -1ppt Gross margin was maintained at 84.6% but fell by US$2 million to US$44 million resulted 1 Active subscribers are defined as those having performed a revenue-generating activity in the previous 60 days.
from the weaker Seychelles Rupee.
2 ARPU is average revenue per user per month, excluding equipment sales.
