32 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Performance review 2015 was an important year for Drax Biomass.
We successfully commissioned our port facility and received, stored, loaded andshipped 243Kt of pellets.
Pete Madden Chief Executive, Drax Biomass Key performance indicators Market The US South offers a highly favourable business climate for Drax Biomass.
The region has a long history of practising sustainable forestry for a variety of economic, 279Kt environmental and recreational purposes, and the forest products industry remains one of Pellets produced the largest and most important contributors to the state economies.
As such, the biomass industry enjoys strong support among local elected officials and their constituents.
Drax Biomass also benefits from the regions ideal 243 Kt growing conditions and vast stands of working forests, which help to ensure that the business Drax Biomass Inc. our pellet manufacturing Shipped volumes has access to ample supplies of low cost, and supply business, owns and operates two sustainably sourced fibre.
Infrastructure is pellet mills and a port facility in the US South.
another key differentiator for the US South, as The business manufactures high quality wood the region boasts a network of well-maintained pellets from sustainably sourced feedstock for roads for delivery of raw fibre to our facilities, use as a low carbon, renewable fuel in power extensive rail networks to efficiently transport generation.
Drax Biomass currently sells all of our pellets, and deep-water ports that can its output to Drax Power and is a key part of the handle the worlds largest shipping vessels.
Groups strategy to secure a robust and reliable supply chain of sustainable biomass for Drax Biomass and the wood pellet industry are renewable generation.
impacted by a wide range of market dynamics that shape fibre demand in the regions in which we operate.
This demand is driven primarily by underlying demand for construction materials, paper-based consumer products and other wood-based products.
These markets, in turn, are shaped by general economic conditions, demographic changes, residential construction activity, maintenance and other activities that impact plant-level production, as well as by competition from foreign suppliers.
Strategic report Drax Group plc 33 Annual report and accounts 2015 Changes in these market conditions can cause Financial results Looking ahead fluctuations in both the price and availability of The financial results of the business are driven Our objective is to become a high quality feedstocks for the wood pellet industry.
by the volume of pellets produced and shipped supplier of compressed wood pellets.
We will to Drax Power Station.
The first shipment was continue to seek process efficiencies as well as Weather is another important variable that successfully dispatched in April 2015. work on enhancing pellet durability and quality.
impacts the wood pellet industry and the Certification from the SBP is also a critical broader forest products sector.
Wet conditions Sales of pellets in the year ending 31 December objective for theteam.
can limit accessibility to harvesting sites and 2015 totalled $43.3 million reflecting the volume adversely impact the operability of heavy of pellets sold intra-group to Drax Power on Recent developments in US energy policy, equipment within those sites.
During extended under an arms-length commercial agreement.
notleast the publication of President Obamas periods of wet weather, pellet manufacturers Clean Power Plan, will, we hope, create and other wood-based industries may Raw fibre costs make up the majority of our opportunities for us to create further value experience localised price spikes due to costs of sale.
Such costs have been higher than within our operations.
temporary disruptions in fibre supply.
we expected as we progressed through the start-up and commissioning phase earlier in the Lastly, the year ahead will be defined by a Operational review year but, as forecasted, have begun to fall as continued focus on safety across alloperations, 2015 was an important year for Drax Biomass.
the optimisation of operations progressed as well as further civic andcharitable We successfully commissioned our port facility during the second half of the year.
in April, and by year-end we had successfully manufactured, transported, received, stored, Operating costs have increased year on year, loaded and shipped 243Kt of wood pellets.
reflecting the commencement of commercial operations across both of our sites.
Despite the We also successfully commissioned our Amite challenges we have faced during the year we and Morehouse BioEnergy facilities in August.
have successfully managed to control our costs Although we have made strong progress toward and as a result total spend was lower than producing pellets of consistently high quality, originally anticipated.
ourproduction levels were impacted by weather-related construction delays during the first half of the year.
Poor weather continued to be a factor during the second half of the year, but our plant operators are growing more adept at maintaining stable and reliable operations under adverse weather conditions.
The ramp up towards full capacity will continue during 2016.
2015 2014 Summary financial performance $m $m Revenue 43.4 Cost of sales 41.9 1.5 Gross profit 1.5 1.5 Risk The principal risks of the business are considered to be: Risk Mitigating activities Weather-related damage to facilities We carry business interruption insurance to protect against significant losses Fire explosion hazard from combustible pellet We employ advanced fire detection and dust suppression systems at both manufacturing sites and port facility Disruption in fibre supply from increased We enter into long-term contracts with competition our suppliers where possible, and we are implementing a portfolio-based approach to our fibre procurement strategy Regulatory and political change We actively engage with regulators and legislators at the state and federal levels to influence policy that impacts our markets 34 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Performance review We have delivered a strong operational performance but weak commodity markets and an uncertain regulatory framework remain adrag on ourbusiness.
Andy Koss Chief Executive, Drax Power The CfD investment contract for our third unit Key performance indicators conversion was signed in April 2014, but is still subject to EU State Aid clearance.
Trials have continued during 2015 to develop 11.
5TWh solutions for compliance with new emission limits which came into effect on 1 January 2016 Biomass generation under the Industrial Emissions Directive IED.
2014: 7.9TWh Commodity markets and generating capacity Our profitability is primarily influenced by the bark spread the difference between the power price and the cost of biomass net of renewable 15.
2TWh support and the dark green spread the Market context difference between the power price and the Drax Power Station is the largest power Coal generation cost of coal and carbon, including CO 2 station in the UK almost twice the size of 2014: 18.7TWh allowances under the EU Emissions Trading the next largest power station and typically Scheme and the UK Carbon Price Support meets some 8% of the UKs electricity needs.
The key factors influencing our business Bark and dark green spreads are driven are the regulatory framework, commodity 49.4 bya number of factors, such as underlying markets, network generating capacity, commodity prices e. g. oil, gas, power, biomass and our operational performance.
including exchange rates, coal and carbon, Average achieved power price the availability of generating capacity on the per MWh sold Regulatory framework electricity system, and the physical positions 2014: 51.3 MWh As in previous years, the regulatory framework taken by individual market participants.
has had a material impact on our business.
In addition, we also provide valuable support Key developments during 2015 included the services to National Grid across both our removal of the CCL exemption for renewable biomass and coal units to help maintain system electricity generated after 1 August 2015, operability and security of supply, for which we announced by the government on 8 July.
The impact of this change was a reduction The growth of wind and solar both near zero inEBITDA in the region of 30 million in 2015 marginal cost generation has created more and60 million in 2016.
In later years the volatile power prices which, in addition to NOx impact reduces, as the value of the exemption constraints, will likely lead to reduced load had been forecast to be negligible by the factors for our coal units.
Strategic report Drax Group plc 35 Annual report and accounts 2015 Two major outages are scheduled for 2016 The year ahead will also be the first full Operational review one biomass and one coal unit together with year of burning biomass on three units, For those factors under our control, we have extensive works to improve NOx performance which will require smooth, integrated delivered a strong performance during 2015. and to allow further unit optimisation.
operations across the entire supply chain and procurement process.
With the modification of one of our generating units in July 2015 to run predominantly on biomass, we are close to completing our plan to 2015 2014 convert three of our six units to burn sustainable Summary financial performance m m biomass in place of coal.
Revenue Power sales 2,163.4 2,079.9 It was an unprecedented year for planned outages, with maintenance taking place on four ROC and LEC sales 451.8 314.8 of our six units.
This included the successful Other income 23.0 55.1 completion of our first major outage on a biomass unit.
2,638.2 2,449.8 We successfully implemented flexible Cost of sales operations on our coal units during the year as a response to challenging market economics.
Fuel costs in respect of generation 1,320.5 1,223.8 Good availability was achieved across the Cost of power purchases 843.5 710.4 power station, and excellent materials handling performance allowed the processing of more Grid charges 84.1 81.5 than 500Kt of non-standard sources of coal.
2,248.1 2,016.7 Gross profit 390.1 434.1 The capital investment in our UK biomass transformation is now largely complete and our IED investment programme is well advanced.
Risk Financial results The principal risks of the business are considered to be: In a year during which trading and regulatory conditions have been challenging, our results Risk Mitigating activities are broadly equivalent to our internal target Regulatory risk We continue to engage with key regulatory which is an excellent performance, given the stakeholders in government impact of the removal of the CCL exemption and the challenging market conditions that Plant risk We target investment to deliver plant developed during 2015.
The impact of these reliability and flexibility negative factors was mitigated by strong station availability, biomass purchasing Biomass sourcing and deliveryrisk We have long term contracting plans performance and more active management butsome of these are subject to State Aid ofprompt market trading.
We have structures in place to access spot markets and expand our supplier Gross profit for 2015 was 390 million compared base.
Building stronger relationships with to 433 million in 2014.
This reduction includes suppliers and robust position monitoring the impact of lower power prices, and the Commodity market price risk We have a progressive hedging strategy with removal of the CCL exemption.
This was forward power and ROC sales combined with mitigated by running another unit purchases offuels predominantly on biomass.
Approval of our application for conversion Looking ahead under the CfD regime would remove potential Our objective remains to run a reliable, flexible income volatility for unit 1 and profitable power station.
Capturing prompt market value and We have flexible, reliable station operations An important part of this is running the plant in networkservices and active engagement with National Grid to a way that optimises value across the biomass offer systemservices and coal units: focusing on operating and capital expenditure decisions that allow us to Logistics We use flexible contracts, continuous maintain a reliable and flexible operation.
2016 forward planning, regular inspections, will be underpinned by a relentless push on the relationship management and clear consistent application and penetration of a five management policies star safety system.
36 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Performance review We have continued to deliver strong growth across the retail market in a challenging environment.
Peter Bennell Retail Director and Chief Executive, Haven Power Key performance indicators Market The business sector of the electricity supply market has continued to be very competitive with our established competitors being joined by a number of new entrants.
8TWh growth by offering innovative and tailored contracts at competitive prices.
By improving Retail power sales volumes, our service and providing the products and atcustomer meter services UK business needs, we broaden and 2014: 11.8TWh deepen existing relationships and increase the value that Haven provides to the Group.
The renewable heating market is very much in its infancy and has benefited from government Haven Power Haven is asupplier of electricity 17 % support under the Renewable Heat Incentive to UKbusinesses, supplying electricity to both RHI.
Billington focusses on reliability of supply, the Industrial and Commercial I&C and Small Year on year retail power sales ensuring a secure supply of consistent quality and Medium Enterprises SME markets.
volume growth heating pellets for our customers delivered 2014: 46% through: a robust sustainable purchasing Haven provides value for the Drax Group strategy: strategic stock holdings: our depot through the provision of an alternative network: the latest delivery vehicle technology, creditefficient route to market for the power, driven by well trained and knowledgeable ROCs and Renewable Energy Guarantees of drivers: and excellent customer service.
Origin REGOs earned when Drax generates 99 % renewable power.
Market growth has been driven primarily by theRHI.
The government has confirmed that Monthly large customer billing Billington Bioenergy Billington is the UKs the RHI will continue to be supported through performance second largest supplier of ENplusA1 biomass to 2021, encouraging consumers to adopt 2014: 99% wood pellets to commercial and domestic renewable forms of heating such as biomass customers for heat.
The acquisition of Billington and move away from fossil fuel heating reflects the significant potential the Group sees systems, mainly heating oiland liquified for biomass within the UK market for heating petroleum gas.
purposes given the governments policy 21Kt objective to decarbonise heat in the UK.
Retail wood pellet sales volumes Strategic report Drax Group plc 37 Annual report and accounts 2015 Operational review An excellent standard of customer service iscentral to our proposition across our retail business.
This good service reputation has supported the achieved growth and at Haven has resulted in an excellent renewals performance in the I&C sector.
We actively manage credit risk by assessing thefinancial strength of customers and applying rigorous credit management processes.
This is reflected in our low bad debtexperience to date.
We have a strong focus on billing and cash collection which has resulted in the retail business being a net contributor of cash to theGroup.
Financial results Movements in key financial metrics are underpinned by continued growth in the retailbusiness.
For the period in question Haven delivered net sales volume growth of 2015 2014 Summary financial performance m m 17%this year to 13.8TWh 2014: 11.8TWh.
Revenue 1,290.0 1,090.4 Much of the sales growth continues to be from the larger but more competitive I&C market.
Many of our larger customers are signed up to Cost of power purchases 710.2 629.0 flexible contracts where the customer decides Grid charges 285.4 253.1 when to fix the price of their power, or to leave it Other retail costs 275.1 191.6 to day or month ahead prices.
As a result, the declining wholesale power price in 2015 has Cost of sales 1,270.7 1,073.7 impacted the average sales price.
Third Party costs TPCs include grid charges, Gross profit 19.3 16.7 the cost of meeting our obligations under the RO, small-scale Feed-in-Tariff schemes and the cost of Levy Exempt Certificates LECs required Drivers of gross profit to deliver Renewable or Levy Exempt Power to Haven average prices MWh 2015 2014 our customers.
Grid charges include distribution, Revenue 93 100% 92 100% transmission and system balancing costs.
TPCs have continued to increase and now account Cost of purchasing power 51 55% 53 58% for44% of revenue, as shown in the table to Third Party costs TPCs 41 44% 38 41% theright.
The markets have been very competitive inboth the current and prior period.
This, Risk combined with the change the Chancellor The principal risks of the business are considered to be: made in July when the exemption from CCL was removed for renewable source electricity, is reflected in the gross profit performance of Risk Mitigating activities the retail business.
Regulatory and political risk Where possible we seek to work closely with and influence regulatory and other bodies Billington Bioenergy also delivered strong salesvolume growth.
Margins were in line with Credit risk We have well-developed credit checking and expectations of the business for this stage of monitoring procedures itsdevelopment.
Commodity market price risk We have well-developed hedging policies which are kept under review for market developments Operating risk We have business continuity plans in place which are regularly reviewed and tested
