Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Group financial review continued Pro-forma results reporting Financial review 2015 The Novartis transaction completed on 2 March 2015 and so our reported year to date results include ten months turnover of Results reporting the former Novartis Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products Our Group financial review discusses the operating and financial and also exclude sales of the former GSK Oncology business from performance of the Group, cash ows and our financial position 2 March.
Following the completion of the transaction with Novartis, and resources.
We compare the results for each year primarily we have reorganised the Group to reect the greater balance with the results of the preceding year.
This review discusses the between the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer total results of the Group and also core results.
Healthcare businesses and responsibilities for some parts We also use a number of adjusted measures to report the of these respective businesses have been realigned.
We are performance of our business.
These measures are used by reporting these three businesses separately with corporate costs management for planning and reporting purposes and in reallocated to each accordingly so that the profitability of each discussions with and presentations to investment analysts business is reected more accurately.
We have restated our and rating agencies and are dened below.
These measures segment information consistent with this realignment.
are not dened in IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly In addition, we have presented unaudited pro-forma growth rates described measures used by other companies.
for turnover, core operating profit and core operating profit by CER growth business.
Pro-forma growth rates are calculated comparing In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is our practice reported turnover and core operating profit for the year to to discuss the results in terms of constant exchange rate CER December 2015 with the turnover and core operating profit for growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates the year to December 2014 adjusted to include the equivalent used to determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling ten months sales of the former Novartis Vaccines and Consumer had remained unchanged from those used in the previous year.
Healthcare products and exclude the sales of the former GSK CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
Oncology products from March to December 2014.
% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
Free cash ow All growth rates included in this Report are at CER unless Free cash ow is the net cash inow from operating activities less otherwise stated.
capital expenditure, interest and dividends paid to non-controlling interests plus proceeds from the sale of property, plant and Core results reporting equipment and dividends received from joint ventures and Total reported results represent the Groups overall performance.
Free cash ow growth is calculated However, these results can contain material unusual or nonon a Sterling basis.
A reconciliation is presented on page 65. operational items that may obscure the key trends and factors determining the Groups operational performance.
As a result, Adjusted free cash ow we also report core results.
Adjusted free cash ow excludes payments made to settle legal disputes.
Core results exclude the following items from total results: amortisation and impairment of intangible assets excluding Working capital conversion cycle computer software and goodwill: major restructuring costs, The working capital conversion cycle is calculated as the number including those costs following material acquisitions: legal charges of days sales outstanding plus days inventory outstanding, less net of insurance recoveries and expenses on the settlement of days purchases outstanding.
litigation and government investigations, and acquisition R&D internal rate of return accounting adjustments for material acquisitions, disposals of The calculation for 2015 included products launched from associates, products and businesses, other operating income 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 and compounds in other than royalty income, and other items, together with the tax phases IIb and III of the development process.
The calculation effects of all of these items.
was based on actual sales from 2013 to 2015, and forecast sales Core results reporting is utilised as one of the bases for internal up to 2036, adjusted to reect expected failure rates, which are performance reporting alongside Total results, cash ow broadly in line with standard industry failure rates.
The cost base generation and a number other metrics.
Core results are presented used in this calculation comprises an estimate of attributable and discussed in this Group financial review as we believe that R&D costs and actual and projected milestone payments core results are more representative of the performance of the where appropriate.
Groups operations and allow the key trends and factors driving This IRR estimate factored in applicable components of the that performance to be more easily and clearly identied by Novartis transaction, including the acquisition costs and forecast shareholders.
The denition of core results, as set out above, also cash ows of Bexsero and Men ABCWY, as well as cash ows aligns the Groups results with the majority of our peer companies for the relevant oncology assets divested i. e. products launched and how they report earnings.
The oncology cash ows included Reconciliations between total and core results, including detailed estimated attributable R&D costs and an estimated proportion of breakdowns of the key non-core items, are set out on page 62, the after-tax sale proceeds.
Proceeds for products launched and are provided to shareholders to ensure full visibility and before 2013 are excluded for consistency with our overall transparency as they assess the Groups performance.
The net impact of the acquisitions and disposals on the estimated IRR is not material.
