Review of operations and finance Selling and distribution costs and administrative expenses FINANCIAL REVIEW 12 increased by 57.8m to 562.5m.
This increase reflects the Financial results for 2015 costs of new depots, investment in both shortand longer-term The information presented here relates to the 52 weeks to growth.
It also reflects the impact of inflation, including on 26 December 2015 and the 52 weeks to 27 December 2014 payroll costs, as well as an increase in pension costs.
1 continuing operations, unless otherwise stated.
Operating profit increased by 32.1m to 221.9m.
The financial performance of the Group during 2015 benefited from our strong competitive position and continuing focus on The net interest charge rose by 1.3m to 2.3m, reflecting a improving operational performance.
higher finance expense in respect of pensions.
The net result was that profit before tax increased by 30.8m to 219.6m.
Revenue m 2015 2014 Group 1,220.2 1,090.8 Profit before tax m Change: comprising: 30.8m Howden Joinery UK depots 1,203.8 1,075.5 Howden Joinery continental Europe depots 16.4 15.3 Total Group revenue increased by 129.4m to 1,220.2m.
Howden Joinery UK depot revenue rose by 11.9% to 1,203.8m, increasing by 9.2% on a same depot basis.
The tax charge on profit before tax was 44.2m, an effective This growth reflects the active development of the business rate of tax of 20.1%.
and is a testament to the strength of the Howdens business model.
In particular, we have continued to open new depots Basic earnings per share were 27.3p 2014: 23.2p.
and further increased the number of customer accounts, which enabled us to grow turnover in existing depots of At 26 December 2015, the pension deficit shown on the all ages.
The decrease in the deficit was due to lower liabilities arising Sales from our depots in continental Europe rose by 1.1m primarily from an increase in the discount rate and the Groups to 16.4m.
Within this, underlying sales from our original 45m contribution to fund the deficit, partly offset by less than depots in France increased by 4% in constant currency terms.
Gross profit rose by 89.9m to 784.4m.
The gross profit We saw strong cash flow in 2015, with a net cash inflow from margin for the year increased to 64.3% 2014: 63.7%.
This was after the 45m cash included a benefit from the strengthening of the pound against contribution to the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
It also reflected our continuing focus on reducing the cost of manufactured and bought-in products, and the Working capital increased by 19.2m.
An increase in stock success of our depots in increasing margin throughout was partly offset by an increase in trade creditors and a the depot network.
Excluding the currency gain, the gross decrease in trade debtors.
This reflected the rise in the profit margin would have been 63.5%, a slight decline number of builders opening accounts with Howdens and their versus 2014, reflecting the cost of testing, i. e. the impact willingness to pay promptly for the service we offer them.
of sales of discontinued product, and the cost of promoting granite worktops.
Also included within net cash flows from operating activities was tax paid totalling 35.3m.
1 There were no discontinued operations in 2015.
In 2014, there was an exceptional profit after tax on discontinued operations of 9.1m.
2014: 188.8 Gross Profit: 89.9 Operating Costs: 57.8 Interest, etc: 1.3 2015: 219.6 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Payments to acquire fixed and intangible assets totalled OPERATIONAL REVIEW 13 45.9m 2014: 32.8m, reflecting increased investment in The mission of Howdens is To supply from local stock our supply operations, which we discuss in the Operational nationwide the small builders ever-changing, routine, Review below.
integrated kitchen and joinery requirements, assuring best local price, no-call-back quality and confidential trade terms.
In line with the announcement of a 70m share repurchase programme made in February 2015, 45.3m was spent Since it started in autumn 1995, the business has opened acquiring the Groups own shares.
These shares, totalling new depots and increased turnover continuously, except for 9,152,000, are held in treasury, to use for future obligations a 12-month period in 2008-9. for company share schemes.
Even today, with over 600 depots across the UK, we Reflecting the above, there was a net cash inflow of 8.4m in continue to see the opportunity to transform the scale of the 2015, the Group having net cash at the year-end of 226.1m business, seeing scope for up to 800 depots.
We continue 27 December 2014: 217.7m net cash.
to invest in all aspects of the growth and performance of the business, including new depots and depot operations, Dividend and return of surplus cash to existing and new employees, product development, and shareholders manufacturing and distribution.
The Groups dividend policy is to target dividend cover of between 2.5x and 3x, with one third of the previous years UK depot network and operations dividend being paid as an interim dividend each year.
During the course of 2015, 30 new depots were opened, bringing the total number of depots trading at the end of the In light of this policy, and given the operational performance of year to 619.
In addition, seven depots were relocated and the business in 2015, the Board has decided to recommend to seventeen were extended.
shareholders a final dividend of 7.1p, giving a total dividend for the year of 9.9p 2014: 8.4p.
This equates to a dividend cover Our account base continued to grow, increasing by 35,000 of 2.75x.
While there has been a significant increase in accounts, our debt collection performance As previously stated, the Board intends to target a capital continues to be robust.
structure that is both prudent and recognises the benefits of operational and financial leverage, and, after considering our Growth was seen in depots of all ages.
To enable us to deliver capital requirements, to return surplus cash to shareholders this growth while maintaining the level of service that our as appropriate.
The Group has significant property leases for small builder customers expect, employee numbers in existing the depot network, and continues to have a material deficit depots were increased by more than 500. in the Group pension fund and a small number of remaining legacy liabilities related to the Groups former ownership of Product and marketing MFI.
Taking into account this underlying level of gearing, the We continue to enhance our product offering with the Board believes it is appropriate for the Group to be able to introduction of a number of new products during the year operate through the annual working capital cycle without across all product categories.
Among the 20 new kitchens incurring bank debt.
launched during the year were tongue and groove options within our popular Burford family, more stone-coloured options The Board has reviewed the cash balances in light of the within our existing kitchen families and the introduction of Groups future investment opportunities, expected peak ivory-coloured options to a number of our kitchen ranges.
working capital requirements and trading outlook.
As a result, it has decided to return an additional 55m of cash to In autumn 2014, we experimented with offering affordable shareholders by way of a further share repurchase programme.
granite worktops from stock in a small number of depots.
This will be implemented over the course of the next two years.
During 2015, the trial was extended, and granite is now sold in all of our depots.
Shares that are bought in the market by our brokers will either be held in treasury, to use for future obligations for company Since its launch in 2009, our Lamona-branded range of share schemes, or cancelled.
kitchen appliances has been very successful.
We continue to invest in Lamona and to develop it further.
Following on from the success of the premium, touch-control pyrolytic oven that we introduced in 2014, we launched two premium, touchcontrol double multi-function ovens during 2015. Review of operations and finance continued Supporting our offering of Lamona premium ovens, after an We also started work on a number of projects that will increase 14 initial trial of additional branded appliances, we are selling a the resilience of our cabinet manufacturing operations by selection of AEG and Neff cooking, refrigeration, dishwashing reducing risk and increasing back-up, including the ability and laundry appliances throughout our depot network.
to engage in dual running if required.
These include the development of a new production facility at Howden.
We continue to invest in our marketing communications and brand advertising.
The existing obsolete boiler and associated heating infrastructure at Runcorn has been replaced by a state-of-theIn our kitchen collection brochure, we have introduced art biomass heating system.
Like the system installed at our a new format to highlight each kitchen family and have Howden site in 2014, the heat generated attracts payments added a flooring section.
We have redesigned our appliance provided by the Renewable Heat Incentive programme.
More literature, introducing lifestyle photographs to make it more detail of the benefits of this new system can be found in the appealing and aspirational for end-consumers.
To further raise awareness of the Howdens brand, we attended 15 county shows and agricultural fairs throughout Logistics the UK during the summer.
Our national distribution centre near Northampton is nearly forty years old and the end of its viable life is in sight.
Having Where appropriate, our branding now includes the Royal Arms, examined various possibilities we have entered in to a longfollowing the award to Howden Joinery of a Royal Warrant By term agreement to occupy a new 650,000 sq ft warehouse Appointment to Her Majesty the Queen in 2015.
This features that is being built near Raunds, to the east of our existing on our websites and on our vehicle fleet livery, and in our national distribution centre.
We expect this facility to be ready marketing material.
for us to begin occupation before the end of 2016.
While this major construction project is under way we have taken shortManufacturing and logistics operations term leases on a number of warehouses in order to support Our UK-based manufacturing and logistics operations play a our planned capacity requirements.
vital role in guaranteeing an uninterrupted supply of product to our small builder customers from local stock nationwide.
This During the year, we replaced our fleet of 460 trailer units for requires us to have the space and the flexibility to respond to our fleet of lorries.
These have been custom-designed and each depots individual needs, even during our peak October built to meet our requirements, and have a revised livery trading period, when sales are more than double the level seen designed to improve brand awareness.
This follows the in other periods.
replacement of the fleets 100 tractor units in 2014.
In February 2015, we said that we had undertaken a review Continental Europe of the mediumand longer-term growth prospects for At the end of 2014, we said that we intended to add a second the business and had identified more opportunities than phase of seven depots to our existing operations in northern previously foreseen.
With this in mind, we said that we had France.
Five of these depots were opened in 2015 and the considered how to ensure that we are best placed to deal remaining two opened following the year end.
Elsewhere, we with and take advantage of what the future might bring.
One opened an outlet in Amsterdam and are planning to open a outcome of this work was the identification of a programme of similar outlet in Hamburg, Germany, in the course of 2016.
The investment in our supply operations that would prepare them purpose of these trials is to allow us to learn about different for future growth while also improving the resilience of our markets.
They complement a larger outlet in Lyon, France and cabinet manufacturing operations.
two depots in Belgium, which were opened in late 2014, and a further outlet in Marseille, France that started trading in During the course of 2015, we carried out or started work February 2016. on a number of projects, the most significant of which were as follows: GROUP DEVELOPMENTS Banking arrangements Manufacturing operations The Group has reached agreement to extend its existing We embarked on projects to replace two aging cabinet panel 140m committed bank facility from its present term of production lines at our Howden site and increase production July 2016 to July 2019. capacity of the cabinet component lines at our Runcorn site.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Pension scheme funding KEY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 15 In July 2015, we announced that agreement had been reached The Group uses a number of financial performance indicators with the Trustees of the Groups defined benefit pension to measure operational and financial activity in the business.
scheme in relation to the schedule of payments towards the These are shown in the financial highlights on the first page funding of the schemes deficit from April 2015.
As a result, of this Annual Report.
Non-financial indicators are discussed the Group will continue to make deficit contributions further in the corporate social responsibility report on pages equivalent to 35m per annum until 30 June 2017.
Payments until then, along with those made since Total sales growth 6 April 2014, will fund the deficit calculated as at the Growth in sales of the UK Howden Joinery depots is key actuarial valuation date of 5 April 2014. to enhancing shareholder value.
This measure, along with monitoring our programme of depot openings, tracks the The extent to which any further contributions are required ability of the Group to grow the business.
beyond 30 June 2017 will be assessed as part of the next formal actuarial valuation of the scheme.
Operating profit The Group targets steady growth in operating profit before CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK FOR 2016 exceptional items over the medium term.
Howdens Joinery UK depot sales in the first two periods of 2016 to 20 February were up 7.1% on the same period last Earnings per share EPS year this excludes the first week, which had two fewer trading We believe that EPS, while not perfect, is an accessible days in 2016 than in 2015, in line with our expectations.
measure of the returns we are generating as a Group for Along with the evidence we have of trading prospects, this our shareholders, and also has the merit of being auditable would suggest that market conditions remain stable.
The key measure of short-term financial performance is basic earnings per share before We believe there is considerable scope for further expansion exceptional items.
of the UK depot network and see the opportunity for up to 800 depots.
We are currently planning to open around 30 depots in Depot openings the UK in 2016, four of which are already open and trading.
In The business model is based on individual depots providing continental Europe, we plan to open our first outlet in Germany kitchens to small builders within a local community.
The as we continue to trial.
continuing drive to open new depots in new localities is therefore key to the Groups growth prospects.
Howden Joinery As already mentioned, 2015 saw us take the first steps currently intends to open around 30 depots in 2016, although to increase our warehousing capacity, invest in our it should be noted that we have the ability to adjust the rhythm manufacturing operations and expand our trial in continental of the opening programme in line with economic conditions.
Clearly, this activity affected operating costs in 2015 and we expect it to continue to do so in 2016, with USE AND MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL an anticipated increase in operating costs of around 15m.
INSTRUMENTS, AND EXPOSURE TO This is in addition to the higher costs that will arise from the FINANCIAL RISK ongoing growth of the business and the effect of inflation.
The Group holds financial instruments for one principal Our investment in the resilience and capacity of our supply purpose: to finance its operations.
The Group does not operations means that capital expenditure for 2016 is currently use derivative financial instruments to reduce its expected to be around 75m.
exposure to interest or exchange rate movements.
The Group finances its operations by using cash flows from operations, Howdens is well-founded and strongly positioned, and we and it has access to an asset-backed loan facility if additional look forward to continued growth in 2016.
However, we are financing is required.
Treasury operations are managed within watchful for the increased risks to the UK economy from a policies and procedures approved by the Board.
less predictable global picture and the uncertainty that an EU referendum might bring, together with the currently weaker The main potential risks arising from the Groups financial exchange rate.
As always, we will act quickly to adapt our instruments are funding and liquidity risk, interest rate business to the market and economic conditions we encounter.
risk, counterparty risk and foreign currency risk, which are discussed below.
Review of operations and finance continued No speculative use of derivatives, currency or other Counterparty risk 16 instruments is permitted.
The Treasury function does not Group Treasury policy on investment restricts counterparties operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to to those with a short-term credit rating at least equivalent to the underlying business requirements.
Standard and Poors A-1 or Moodys P-1.
It also places limits on the maximum amount which can be invested with a single Funding and liquidity counterparty.
Investments mainly consist of bank deposits, The Groups objective with respect to managing capital is UK Treasury bills and liquidity funds.
The Group continuously to maintain a balance sheet structure that is both efficient reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed in terms of providing long-term returns to shareholders on individual credit exposures and categories of investments.
and safeguards the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
As appropriate, the Group can choose to adjust its Foreign currency risk capital structure by varying the amount of dividends paid to The most significant currencies for the Group are the US shareholders, the returns of capital to shareholders, the level dollar and the Euro.
It is the Groups current policy that routine of capital expenditure, or by issuing new shares.
transactional conversion between currencies is completed at the relevant spot exchange rate.
This policy is reviewed on a The Group has an asset-backed bank facility which allows regular basis.
borrowing of up to a maximum of 140m, dependent on the actual levels of stock and trade debtors held at any time.
The The net impact of exchange rates on currency transactions in facility has been renewed in 2015 and is now due to expire in the year was 9.9m.
The Group does not have many overseas July 2019.
The facility was not used at any point during 2015. assets liabilities, so the impact of currency translation on these items is not material.
The Groups committed borrowing facility contains certain financial covenants which have been met throughout 2015.
The principal exchange rates affecting the profits of the Group The covenants are tested every four weeks and are based are set out in the table below.
around: i fixed charges: ii tangible net worth: and iii earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS EBITDA for Howden Joinery Limited.
None of the new accounting standards that came into effect during 2015 had a material implication for the Group.
In addition, our pension trustees, who carry a charge over the share capital of Howden Joinery Limited, have a separate CAUTIONARY STATEMENT covenant test around the EBITDA of Howden Joinery Limited.
Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking.
Although the Group believes that the expectations reflected The Groups latest forecasts and projections have been in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can stress-tested for reasonably possible adverse variations in give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have trading performance and show that the Group will operate been correct.
Because these statements contain risks and within the terms of its borrowing facility and covenants for the uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those foreseeable future.
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking At the 2015 year end, the Group had 166m of cash, 60m statements whether as a result of new information, future of short term investments, and 118m of funds available to events or otherwise.
borrow under the committed borrowing facility in line with the levels of stock and trade debtors at the year end.
By order of the Board Interest rate risk Mark Robson The Group has not had any borrowings during 2015 and does Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer not consider interest rate risk to be significant at present.
24 February 2016 Principal exchange rates 2015 2015 2014 2014 versus UK pound Average Year-end Average Year-end United States dollar US$ 1.53 1.49 1.65 1.56 Euro 1.38 1.36 1.24 1.27 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Going Concern, Viability Statement and other Statements of the Directors in connection with this Annual Report and Accounts The Directors also undertook a robust assessment of the GOING CONCERN 17 Companys principal risks.
These risks are set out on pages The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements 19 to 22.
This assessment followed the implementation of a through cash generated from operations.
If required, the number of enhancements to the risk management processes Group also has access to an asset-backed lending facility of during 2015.
Specifically, we changed our risk reporting to 140m which expires in July 2019. include a risk appetite statement and to emphasise the details of certain inherent risks identified as key to the business.
The Groups forecasts and projections have been stressThese enhancements to the monitoring of principal risks have tested for reasonably possible adverse variations in economic helped to increase visibility of the risks which the Company is conditions and trading performance.
The results of this testing most reliant on the internal control environment to mitigate.
show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current net cash balances and its committed bank Having taken into account the Companys current position, facility, and that it would not breach the facility covenants.
strategic plans and principal risks in their evaluation of the prospects of the business, the Directors confirm that they have After making due enquiries the directors have a reasonable a reasonable expectation that the Company will continue to expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate operate and will be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due resources to continue in operational existence for the during the three-year period to December 2018. foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, In accordance with Provisions C2.1 and C2.2 of the UK Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
viability of the Company over a period longer than the period of twelve months from the date of the approval of the financial Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements as provided in the Going Concern statement statements for each financial year.
The Directors have assessed whether the Company will Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements in continue to operate and will be able to meet its liabilities as accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards they fall due during the three-year period to December 2018.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of A three-year period was agreed to be the most appropriate time the IAS Regulation and have chosen to prepare the parent period to ensure alignment with the Companys existing rolling company financial statements in accordance with United three-year strategic planning process, as detailed below.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under The review of the Companys long-term viability was company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts undertaken with reference to the Companys work on strategic unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of planning in 2015 which covered the three year period to the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of December 2018.
This included sensitivity analysis of the the Company for that period.
Companys strategic plans and considered scenarios with reduced sales, margin and cash flow.
This analysis was In preparing the parent company financial statements, modelled on the most severe downturn in sales and margin the Directors are required to: that the Company has experienced over a three-year period.
The Directors also considered that the Companys strong cash select suitable accounting policies and then apply position, plus the availability of the 140m committed banking them consistently: facility, the operational flexibility afforded by the depot opening make judgements and accounting estimates that are programme, the certainty afforded from long-term supply reasonable and prudent: agreements and the robust disaster recovery and business state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have continuity management frameworks supported the prospect been followed subject to any material departures disclosed of long-term viability.
and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Going Concern, Viability Statement and other Statements of the Directors in connection with this Annual Report and Accounts continued In preparing the Group financial statements, International DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 18 Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: We confirm to the best of our knowledge: properly select and apply accounting policies: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the present information, including accounting policies, in a relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit understandable information: or loss of the Group and Company, and the undertakings including the consolidation taken as a whole: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable the Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair review of users to understand the impact of particular transactions, the development and performance of the business and the other events and conditions on the entitys financial position of the Group and Company and the undertakings position and financial performance: and including the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue face: and as a going concern.
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting balanced and understandable and provides the information records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at Companys performance, business model and strategy.
any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Directors on 24 February 2016 and is signed on its behalf by: safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Matthew Ingle Chief Executive The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included Mark Robson on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
24 February 2016 AUDIT INFORMATION AND AUDITORS Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirm that: so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
