CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 16 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR COMMITMENT TO OPERATINGRESPONSIBLY The Board takes ultimate responsibility for ETHICS WE WORK WITH corporate social responsibility CSR and We have an unwavering commitment to high OUR CUSTOMERS, recognises that behaving ethically, working standards of business ethics.
We apply these safely, reducing our environmental impact, standards to all dealings with employees, SUPPLIERS AND attracting, recognising and rewarding our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
EMPLOYEES TO people and contributing to our communities We place a high priority on compliance with creates and sustains long-term value for our all legislative and regulatory requirements DETERMINE THE shareholders and our wider stakeholders.
and on the maintenance of high ethical ISSUES THAT ARE standards, within each of the territories and We work with our customers, suppliers jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.
MATERIAL TO OUR and employees to determine the issues that are material to our business by a Our Global Code of Conduct the Code BUSINESS continuous process of review, consultation provides the guiding principles and forms and assessment.
the basis for how we do business and is underpinned by the common values of We look to mitigate risks and improve our honesty, integrity and fairness.
The Code, operating efficiencies by being a responsible which is available on our website and reviewed organisation.
The outputs of embedding annually, provides the framework for our our corporate social responsibility ethos policies, processes and procedures relating throughout our business are fourfold: to human rights, equal opportunity, ethics, sustained growth, lower environmental compliance, anti-harassment, conflicts of impact, stronger communities and, interest and regulatory compliance.
Our global Ethics Hotline provides a FTSE4GOOD confidential way for employees to raise We have been a member of the FTSE4Good concerns about inappropriate behaviour Index Series since 2004 with an overall anonymously.
The hotline utilises an Environmental, Social and Governance independent telephone and internet rating of 3 out of 5.
This index has been provider, offering support in local designed to objectively measure the languages and has an internal escalation performance of companies that meet and resolution process.
globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Our stakeholders can use this index to make investment decisions, as a benchmarking tool or purely for research purposes.
We can also use this as a reference by which we can assess the progress and achievement of our evolving corporate social responsibility programme.
The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria are updated on a regular basis and continuous improvement is required to merit ongoing inclusion in the index which is reviewed semi-annually in March and September.
The criteria are also regularly assessed by Ethical Investment Research Services EIRIS, an independent research organisation.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 KPI SUSTAINABILITY CASE STUDY REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS We are committed to continuously PER 100 EMPLOYEES improving our sustainability to increase ANNUALISED efficiency in energy, waste generation Supporting our -0.03 and water usage.
Our manufacturing sites 0.21 0.21 0.20 develop local sustainability initiatives each female employees 0.18 year in addition to centralised initiatives for 0.13 shared services such as global logistics, we measure our progress by monitoring nonGender representation is a key financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs issue in our drive towards greater 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 which are detailed left and on page 19. diversity among our leadership team.
Defined as: Reportable accidents Despite more than half our employees expressed per 100 employees SUPPLY CHAIN being female, we only have good annualised.
female representation in leadership Management of CSR with suppliers Reason: Monitors safety by roles in areas such as Human Resources, Our aim is to procure the best value goods recording the incidence and Finance and Administration.
and services from suppliers that meet our causesof accidents that result in standards and deliver the services that medical attention or lost time or During the year we launched a new restricted duty.
We expect our initiative in China to encourage women suppliers to comply with all appropriate within Laird to consider more senior legislation and conform to high ethical, roles.
Through Sunshine Women, social and environmental standards in line senior women hold on-site sessions with the EICC Code of Conduct, including with female production and office the highest standards for health and safety workers, sharing their experiences, their and compliance with ethical prohibitions journeys into leadership, and passing including the use of conflict minerals, child on tips on how women can progress labour and regarding anti-slavery.
into leadership roles within maledominated industries.
We have a robust procedure for supplier selection and qualification which includes The first program was held at a requirement for suppliers to sign up to the Performance Materials site in our Supply Chain Code of Conduct, which Shanghai, Xinzhuang, with over 100 cascades our Code of Conduct values female production and office workers throughout our supply chain.
We review attending a 90-minute session with our suppliers quarterly through our periodic three of our senior female leaders.
supplier evaluation tool which uses a quality As the program was met with great score together with an evaluation report to enthusiasm, we have since rolled out the monitor performance.
initiative to other major sites in China and will expand the program to other countries and regions in 2016, spreading the word that women can access top leadership roles at Laird.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 18 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED CHARITABLE Specific CSR programmes: CARBON EMISSIONS CARBON DONATIONS TOTALLED DISCLOSURE PROJECT Conflict Minerals In order to continue building good Anti-Slavery relationships with our customers and 34,366 Human Rights declarations etc suppliers, we strive to be as transparent as possible.
We participate in the annual Supply Chain Code of Conduct 27.6% Information Request by the Carbon Anti-bribery and corruption Disclosure Project CDP to demonstrate the steps we are taking to improve energy Environmental compliance to ISO efficiency and resource use across our and OHSAS standards operations and through our supply chain.
All our manufacturing sites which are deemed Our 2015 submission received the highest to have some form of environmental impact score we have received to date and it are required to implement certified continues to improve year-on-year.
In 2015 integrated management systems to ISO 14001 Laird PLC achieved a disclosure score of 91, and OHSAS 18001 standards.
performance band C: 87, performance band C in 2014.
Average disclosure CHARITIES AND COMMUNITIES scoring for our industry is 83, performance band C. We believe that maintaining a good relationship between our business and Laird PLC had its Greenhouse Gas GHG the broader society in which we operate emissions tracking processes reviewed by is fundamental to long-term business an independent specialist provider for the growth.
To this end, our sites develop local first time in 2015, which contributed to the community and schools support projects, improvement in the CDP disclosure score.
with commitment of staff time to support It is intended to seek independent review of the projects and donation of suitable these processes every two to three years.
redundant assets as well as drawing on a charities budget which is agreed each year CO emissions 2 GHG emissions were derived using an by the Board of Laird PLC.
During the year, cash charitable donations totalled emissions calculator within the EICC Carbon Reporting System tool that converts actual 34,366 2014, 26,925. site-level energy usage data into tonnes Measuring our progress CO equivalent CO e direct and indirect 2 2 We have non-financial KPIs which provide emissions.
The emissions calculator is an ongoing benchmark of the effectiveness consistent with GHG Protocol and the best of our CSR programme see pages 17 and 19. available public emissions factors from sources that include the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Control IPCC, the International Energy Agency IEA and the United States Department of Energy US DOE.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19 KPI Throughout 2015 we monitored energy CASE STUDY usage and carbon emissions in our largest CO2 EMISSIONS TONNES $1M OF REVENUE seven sites which account for more than 80% of our scope 1 and scope 2 CO 2 4.2% Encouraging a more 67.98 68.36 emissions.
Total GHG at these sites in 2015 61.21 58.77 were 43948 tonnes CO, approximately 2 inclusive approach 43.73 5.6% above 2014 levels 41,582 tonnes CO. 2 The majority of the increase is attributed to the opening and operation of the expanded In 2015, we again helped fund a student new Telematics facility in Shanghai.
placement at DEMAND: Design and 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Manufacture for Disability a charity Defined as: Greenhouse gas Tonnes of CO equivalent 2 emissions calculated by applying dedicated to solving the challenges specific factors to power Scope 1 4.8% that people with disability face every consumption expressed as day.
DEMANDs student placement aproportion of revenue.
Scope 2 95.2% scheme aims to positively influence the Reason: We try to minimise design thinking of tomorrow, giving Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions theenvironmental impact of young designers hands-on experience ouroperations.
from sources that are owned or controlled of solving real problems for people with by the entity such as fossil fuels burned disability, and encouraging them to buy on site and other direct sources.
Scope 2 into a more inclusive design philosophy.
emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, These are the thoughts of Hollie, KPI heating and cooling or steam generated a work placement student from off site but purchased by the entity.
REDUCTION IN WASTE Brunel University: TO LANDFILL TONNES $1M OF REVENUE Ive always been interested in inclusive WASTE MANAGEMENT design, so when I was looking for a work 4.2% We have an ongoing programme to placement, the opportunity at DEMAND 0.75 0.73 0.72 0.69 examine how we can further minimise 0.66 was too good pass up.
At DEMAND the generation of waste in order to protect Ive worked on a garden tool holder theenvironment and reduce costs.
to help a lady in an electric wheelchair There was a reduction in waste to landfill enjoy her garden, a camera mount tonnes generation in 2015 at 664 tonnes to help an individual in a wheelchair 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014, 668tonnes.
The overall activity hold his camera steady, and a variety ratio of waste to landfill per 1m of sales Defined as: Total waste to landfill of modifications to walking frames.
sites expressed as a proportion in 2015 1.05tonnes 1.20 in 2014.
However, the most rewarding project ofrevenue.
was a hooded rocking chair intended Reason: Measures waste WATER USAGE to provide a calm space for autistic management.
In 2015 we continued to monitor and school students.
Ive been involved in measure water usage at Laird locations, the project from assessment to delivery with total usage of 428.409 cubic metres and being able to see the pupils 450.115 in 2014. enjoying it was the most fantastic part of all.
CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 20 GOVERNANCE WIRELESS SYSTEMS ENABLING CONNECTIVITY TO POWER THE EIOT We are a global leader in the field of Radio Frequency engineering, providing innovative and reliable technology to our customers across a wide range of markets.
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS REVENUE $360.5M 9.9% REVENUE BY MARKET SEGMENT % 2014: $328M CONNECTED TRANSPORT 64% TELECOM COMPUTING 17% 235.6M CONNECTED INDUSTRY 15% 18.5% 2014: 198.8M OTHER 4% UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT $46.5M 14.8% 2014: $40.5M 2 30.4M 24.1% 2 2014: 24.5m 5 OPERATING MARGIN 12.9% 2014: 12.3% LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21 WIRELESS SYSTEMS In our existing businesses, revenue from our Bluetooth offerings continued to grow This division is a market leader in wireless with a number of high-volume consumer connectivity, telematics and control systems product contracts confirmed.
We design, manufacture awarded an Electronic Component News and supply products and applications ECN Impact award for Excellence that enable connectivity across a range in Boards, Modules and Embedded of enterprise applications.
We are an systems for our BT900 series Bluetooth established global leader in automotive modules.
Our developing position within telematics supplying many of the global the Connected Medical sector continued original equipment auto manufacturers.
with confirmed design wins for both We also supply connectivity, control and Enterprise Wi-Fi applications and Bluetooth software management platforms to over product lines.
Our leading position within the automotive FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE sector was further strengthened this year 4 Over the year, organic revenue for Wireless with significant programme wins in Europe, Systems in % China and the Americas.
Underlying across both new and existing customers in operating profit grew by14.8%to$46.5m a market where both volume and content 5 2014, $40.5m.
Operating margin demands are increasing year-on-year.
In Sterling, The acquisition of Novero which completed total revenue grew by 18.5% to235.6m after the close of the year will also give 4 2014, 198.8m.
Operating profit grew us access to new capabilities and new by 24.1% to 30.4m 2014, 24.5m.
customers which will expand our product Revenue growth was driven in particular offering in this sector and further diversify by a strong performance in the our customer base.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS The acquisition of LS Research in late 2015 has helped to consolidate our position in EIoT markets.
It has expanded our scope of supply by adding new capabilities, including testing, which further drives our differentiation through Innovation, Reliable Fulfilment and Speed.
We also have the opportunity to service new markets in the light industrial and commercial sectors.
Segment profit: After taking into account exceptional items we report a profit of 10.0m 2014, 13.1m.
