Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GROUP Financial Review AndrewCarr Chief Financial Officer Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GROUP Financial Review 2015 2014 Growth Changeat Changeat m m m actualrate% constantrate% Revenue 1,278 1,249 29 2.3% 3.9% 1 EBITDA 402 411 9 2.1 % 1.1 % 1, 2 Operating profit 291 311 20 6.2 % 5.6 % 1 Net finance costs 41 62 21 32.6% 1 Profit before tax 250 249 1 0.3% 1 Taxation 70 70 - - 1 Profit for the year 180 179 1 0.4% Post-tax exceptional items 10 17 7 43.2% Leverage on net debt to underlying EBITDA 2.3x 2.3x Tradingperformance Reported EBITDA fell by 9 million, or 2.1%, to 402 million.
Despite the challenging trading conditions experienced in 2015, EBITDA declined by 4.3% on a like for like basis and by Merlin has delivered a robust set of financial results.
Underlying 1.1% including the contribution of new attractions and profit before tax of 250 million was in line with 2014, and with accommodation, on a constant currency basis.
325 million of operating cash flow, the business remains highly cash generative.
We continue to invest for the long term - in Merlins operating model is such that increased revenues at both our existing and new attractions.
existing attractions should flow through to operating profit less incremental expenditure on a number of variable costs, such as Total revenue grew by 3.9% in 2015 on a constant currency direct cost of sales, incremental labour costs and variable rents.
basis, reflecting our like for like businesses combined with the Similarly, if an attraction experiences significant unplanned contribution of new Midway attractions and accommodation.
reductions in revenue, some costs may be variable but a Like for like revenue grew by 0.4%, with strong growth in the proportion of costs will be relatively fixed.
Operating margins LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group offset by challenging trading are also impacted by the mix of revenues across attractions, in Resort Theme Parks RTP.
Movements in foreign exchange including the impact of foreign exchange translation, as well as rates reduced the reported results however, resulting in revenue the nature of additional revenues generated by each site.
Further detail on the impact of foreign exchange movements is provided on the next page.
In 2015, EBITDA margins fell by 1.4% to 31.5%, as a result of the lower like for like revenue growth, the significant decline in RTP Visitor numbers grew by 0.3% during the year, reflecting the revenue and a cost base that can only be flexed to a limited continued strong performance in LEGOLAND off the back of a degree in the short term.
Additionally, the dilutive impact of new record year in 2014 and the benefit of new attractions, offset by openings has further dampened the Group margin.
A number of a sharp decline in RTP and a lower Midway Attractions like for one-off central cost savings were made during the year, including savings in variable remuneration.
This resulted in a reduction in like performance.
central costs of 12.7%, excluding the effect of the change in allocation of costs to the three Operating Groups Revenue per capita RPC was 18.31, in line with the prior see page 50 for more details.
This was driven by general underlying price increases and mix improvements, with proportionally Operating profit declined by 20 million, or 6.2%.
This reflected higher visitation in the LEGOLAND parks which bring higher both the decline in EBITDA and an increase in the depreciation average spend levels.
This was offset by adverse net foreign and amortisation charge from 100 million to 111 million, exchange translation impacts.
Our focus continues to be on reflecting our continued capital investment across the estate.
revenue maximisation rather than specific volume or RPC targets.
Table notes: 1 Ref erences to EBITDA, net finance costs, taxation and all other profit measures in the table above and the following commentary are stated on an underlying basis, before exceptional items unless otherwise stated.
Further details are provided of exceptional items on page 118.
2 Operating profit is defined as EBITDA less depreciation and amortisation.
Details o f the Groups accounting policies are contained within the financial statements on pages 108 to 161 and those areas requiring significant judgement in the preparation of the financial statements are summarised on page 114.
Further information regarding the Groups segmental analysis: geographical revenues and assets: and certain operating costs are provided in note 2.1 to the financial statements on pages 115 to 117.
47 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GROUP Financial Review Financecosts Net underlying finance costs reduced by 21 million to 41 million 2014: 62 million.
In March 2015 the Group Merlins refinancing completed a refinancing of its core debt facilities which provided further flexibility for the Group and significantly reduced the provided further flexibility for cost of debt finance see note 2.3 to the financial statements.
More details on the refinancing are set out on the next page.
the Group and significantly reduced the cost of  Underlying profit before tax of 250 million was in line with the debt finance prior year.
This was consistent with the revised expectations we announced for the year on 27 July 2015 in the light of challenging trading conditions following the accident at Alton Towers.
Taxation An underlying tax charge of 70 million is equivalent to an Earningspershare EPS effective tax rate of 27.9% 2014: 28.0% of underlying profit Basic earnings per share was 16.8p 2014: 16.0p.
The difference between the reported effective tax rate and the UK standard weighted tax rate of 20.3% is Adjusted earnings per share, which excludes the impact of mainly due to the different tax rates that apply in the various exceptional items, was 17.8p 2014: 17.7p.
jurisdictions we operate in around the world.
Further detail is provided in note 2.4 to the financial statements.
Reconciliation between basic and adjusted earnings Exceptionalitems 2015 2014 There were no exceptional costs impacting EBITDA or m m operating profit in 2015 or 2014.
Profit attributable to shareholders 170 162 Exceptional finance costs of 13 million were incurred in the Exceptional items after tax 10 17 period.
The Group restructured its interest rate swaps as part of a wider refinancing of the debt facilities and as a result recycled Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 180 179 14 million through the income statement that had previously Weighted average number of shares been hedge accounted through equity.
This was then offset 1,014 1,014 million by foreign exchange gains of 1 million, also as part of the refinancing.
Tax on exceptional items amounted to a credit Basic earnings per share 16.8p 16.0p of 3 million 2014: credit of 6 million.
Adjusted earnings per share 17.8p 17.7p  Merlin is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates principally on the translation of the results of our overseas Dividend operations.
The table below shows the impact on 2014 revenues The Company has adopted a progressive dividend policy with a of re-translating them at 2015 foreign exchange FX rates.
target range of payout of 35-40% of underlying profit after tax, Operating profits would be similarly impacted.
so as to maintain an appropriate level of dividend cover whilst retaining sufficient capital in the Group to fund continued investment across our six strategic growth drivers.
2014 2015 %age average average movement Revenue In September 2015 we paid an interim dividend of 2.1 pence Currency FXrates FXrates inFXrates impactm per share and the Board is recommending a final dividend of USD 1.66 1.54 7.4% 22 4.4 pence per share.
This equates to a full year dividend of 6.5 pence per share.
EUR 1.24 1.39 11.5 % 26 When making proposals for the payment of dividends, the AUD 1.82 2.04 11.9 % 9 Directors consider the resources available to the Company Other 6 and its subsidiaries.
Specifically they have taken account of the Companys significant distributable profits, as well as  19 the liquidity of the Group.
48 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GROUP Financial Review Cashflow Other investing activities of 5 million reflected an increased investment in LEGOLAND Malaysia.
2015 2014 m m Refinancing and repayments of borrowings totalled 137 million.
EBITDA 402 411 Surplus cash reserves were used to make a net repayment of 110 million of term debt as part of the refinancing set out Working capital and other movements 18 - below.
Payments of 27 million were made in respect of the refinancing and restructuring of the related interest rate swaps.
Tax paid 54 59  325 357 Net interest paid of 41 million 2014: 56 million has reduced reflecting lower finance costs following the refinancing in Capital expenditure 215 192 March 2015.
Other investing activities 5 3 Dividends paid in the year of 64 million comprise the final Interest paid, net of interest received 41 56 dividend for 2014 of 43 million together with the interim dividend for 2015 of 21 million 2014: 20 million.
Dividends paid 64 20  Netdebt - 86  Further detail is provided in note 4.1 to the financial statements.
Refinancing and repayment of borrowings 137 70 2015 2014 Netcash outflow inflowfortheyear 137 16 m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,136 1,007 Merlin continues to be highly cash generative, with a net Less: cash and cash equivalents 152 285 operating cash flow after tax of 325 million 2014: 357 million.
855 851 This reflects EBITDA less 18 million of working capital and other outflows, primarily relating to the payment of 2014 performance Finance leases 82 84 related bonuses, together with tax payments in the year of Net debt 937 935 59 million.
Leverage on net debt to 2.3x 2.3x underlying EBITDA Capital expenditure of 215 million was incurred, comprising 125 million on the existing estate and 90 million on new attractions and accommodation.
Leverage on net debt at the year end equates to 2.3x underlying Consistent with Merlins strategy, our capital investment EBITDA 2014: 2.3x, reflecting broadly similar levels of both programme creates new rides, themed areas or features for EBITDA and net debt for each reporting period.
the existing businesses, following the specific investment cycles laid down for each Operating Group.
Loanfacilities In March 2015 Merlin completed a refinancing of its core In addition to the 125 million invested in the existing estate, we debt facilities.
The new committed facilities are: have invested 40 million in new accommodation offerings across Bank facilities from twelve relationship banks in the form of our theme park resorts, including the Enchanted Village lodges 648 million of floating rate term debt in a combination of at Alton Towers and the new LEGOLAND Florida Hotel.
The US Dollars, Euro and Sterling to mature in March 2020.
Group invested 44 million opening new Midway attractions.
A 300 million multi-currency revolving credit facility from Seven new attractions were opened in 2015 and we plan to the same twelve banks.
The Groups inaugural bond in the form of 500 million 367 million seven year notes with a coupon rate of Capital expenditure of 6 million was incurred in respect of the 2.75% to mature in March 2022. new LEGOLAND parks currently under development in Japan and South Korea.
In connection with the refinancing, fixed charges over shares in certain Group companies and certain intra-Group receivables All major capital projects are appraised both operationally and were released.
The new facilities are senior and unsecured.
This financially and Merlin sets clear project return targets to assist in transition to unsecured facilities reflects the re-positioning of the assessing their viability and to ensure appropriate prioritisation.
Merlin credit profile as one more expected of a listed business.
49 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GROUP Financial Review These landmark transactions confirmed investors confidence  ROCE in the Groups strategy, allowing Merlin to diversify sources of The Board considers ROCE to be an important metric for finance in line with its business plan, while benefiting from long appraising financial performance and uses it, along with EPS, in the term resources at an attractive cost.
For 2015 minor amendments were made to the ROCE calculation.
In addition to the term debt a new multi-currency revolving facility of 300 million 2014: 150 million was made available.
The profit measure used in calculating ROCE is based on This facility, in conjunction with the Groups cash balance of underlying operating profit after tax: the change to the tax rate 152 million 2014: 285 million, is available to finance working applied reflects the more stabilised tax position following the IPO.
capital requirements and capital investment.
At 26 December The capital employed element of the calculation is based on net 2015 all of these facilities remained available and nil had been operating assets which include all net assets other than deferred drawn down from the revolving facility 2014: nil.
tax, financial assets and liabilities, and net debt.
From 2015 we use average net assets in this calculation to better match the deployment of capital to the period over which the related Merlin is required to comply with certain financial and nonincome is earned.
ROCE in 2015 was 9.7% 2014: 10.6% financial covenants in the bank facilities, including a requirement largely reflecting the decline in underlying operating profit.
to maintain certain ratios of EBITDA to both net finance costs Had the changes not been made the reported ROCE for and net debt.
We are also required to comply with certain 2015 would have been 9.5%.
non-financial covenants in the 500 million notes.
All covenant requirements were satisfied throughout the year.
 As announced via RNS on 15 January 2016, Merlin has Further detail is provided in note 4.2 to the financial statements.
revised the way in which certain costs incurred by the Group are allocated to its three Operating Groups.
This change will Netassets apply for the 2015 full year results and all subsequent periods.
Net assets increased by 86 million from 1,063 million in Overall Group reported profitability is not affected.
The 2014 to 1,149 million in 2015. effect included in reported 2015 EBITDA is as follows: The consolidated statement of financial position on page 110 shows an increase in property, plant and equipment of 2015 85 million from 1,410 million to 1,495 million, primarily m reflecting the capital additions referred to previously offset by depreciation charges, together with the retranslation of those Midway Attractions 4 assets at different foreign exchange rates.
Foreign exchange LEGOLAND Parks 1 translation differences account for the majority of the reported reduction in intangible assets from 942 million to 923 million.
Resort Theme Parks 2 Working capital movements of 11 million related to the Central costs payment of 2014 performance related remuneration and other 7 timing differences.
Further detail is provided in note 3.4 to the Grouptotal - financial statements.
Net debt has remained broadly flat.
The net pensions liability also remained flat at 5 million 2014: 5 million.
The 170 million profit for the year was reduced by amounts Summary totalling 24 million within other comprehensive income.
This I am pleased with the robust financial results the Group has primarily reflected exchange losses arising on the retranslation reported for 2015, despite the extremely challenging trading of net assets denominated in foreign currencies offset by the conditions.
2015 has seen us further strengthen the Companys recycling of interest rate swaps referred to previously.
In financial structure with the refinancing, and the platform for addition we paid dividends of 64 million.
Further detail is provided in the notes to the financial statements on pages 113 to 154.
AndrewCarr  24 February 2016 50 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way A KEY ELEMENT OF THE MERLIN WAY IS THAT WE CARE ABOUT OUR PEOPLE, OUR VISITORS, THE CREATURES IN OUR CHARGE AND THE COMMUNITIES AND ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH WE OPERATE.
WE CALL THIS BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD AND FOCUS OUR EFFORTS IN THE FOLLOWING KEY AREAS: MERLINS MAGIC WAND CHILDRENS CHARITY: SUSTAINABILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT: MARINE & WILDLIFE CONSERVATION: AND ACCESSIBILITY - DELIVERING ENVIRONMENTS THAT PROVIDE ACCESS FOR ALL.
51 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 WE BELIEVE IN MAKING A POSITIVE DIFFERENCE, IN A MERLIN WAY.
Our very own childrens charity Merlins Magic Wand MMW has delivered a record number of magical experiences for children around the world who are disadvantaged through sickness and disability.
MMW thrives due to the engagement and support of Merlin employees, guests and partners.
To find out more Edinburgh Dungeon actor meets patient about the great work the charity does, visit its website at at the Royal Hospital for Sick Children www.
org or follow our Facebook page.
COMMUNITY OUTREACH We have visited hundreds of children in hospital to bring smiles to them.
The Merlin Magic has enabled them to be children first and patients second.
Children have had visits from SEA LIFE mascots, Master Model builders and even a dog trained in sign language!
MAGICAL VISITS - DAYS OUT During 2015 every single Merlin attraction has hosted a MMW visit.
In total we provided over 75,000 tickets with a retail value of over 1 million.
It is so rare to get a photo of my son with him smiling.
I was in tears 52 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way WE TAKE THE MAGIC TO THE CHILDREN WHEN THEY CANT COME TO US!
MERLINS MAGIC SPACES SINCE 2010 MERLIN HAS CREATED 17 MAGICAL SPACES... AND COUNTING!
The children were so excited when they saw their new Merlins Magic Wand play area 53 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way Accessibility CommunityRelations It is our aim to provide experiences and environments that are As well as through our MMW activities, each attraction continues accessible to all.
We want to provide industry leading facilities and to forge partnerships in the local community, for example with experiences.
The cornerstones of our approach are: local charities and other groups supporting disadvantaged people.
Guest Information SEA LIFE Brighton work with a local community initiative Gullys We will provide clear, accurate, consistent and accessible Days Out to provide tickets to young people with additional needs.
information to enable visitors to make informed choices.
Accessible Environments Over 100 foster children enjoyed a day out at SEA LIFE Bangkok We will make our environments as accessible as possible, in June 2015. continually improving our estate.
Team Engagement LEGOLAND Windsor is proud to be an active member of the We will ensure employees have the tools and training to local community - as a key partner for the local childrens hospice deliver memorable experiences to accessibility for which we host a Christmas party and offer magical visits for challenged guests.
the children: providing LEGOLAND Annual Passes to foster children: and offering free workshops in local libraries.
We make no differentiation between able bodied and disabled persons in terms of recruitment, training and career progression.
We will make every effort to continue the employment and training of those persons who become disabled while employed by the Group.
LEGOLAND Florida were able to provide foster children with a duffle bag, carefully and lovingly decorated to help these children carry their prized possessions from home to home.
Our Dallas cluster have been involved with a whole range of local community initiatives, from helping celebrate World Turtle Day at the SEA LIFE Centre, to helping out with the annual Texas Trash Off.
It is our aim to provide experiences and environments that are accessible to all 54 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way  As well as being the leading global operator of aquariums through our SEA LIFE brand, Merlin also runs zoos at the Chessington World of Adventures Resort in the UK along with WILD LIFE Sydney Zoo and WILD LIFE Hamilton Island in Australia.
The Company has an excellent reputation for the ethical and responsible care, preservation and conservation of animals and the marine environment.
This reputation is widely acknowledged by expert organisations around the world.
Merlin actively engages our guests and employees in our conservation and welfare work through our global Breed, Rescue, Protect initiative and promotes the protection of wildlife across the globe by supporting projects and campaigns which make a real difference.
SEALIFE The SEA LIFE Trust has again enjoyed fantastic support from SEA LIFE staff and visitors the world over.
With this support, the Trust was able to campaign against whaling, for better protection for sharks and to reduce marine litter.
Over 105,000 people have signed the Wipe Out Whaling petition as part of the campaign to help bring an end to the transport of whale meat through Europe.
In just one weekend in September, SEA LIFE staff and volunteers cleaned over 33km of beach, river and lakeside, removing over 1.4 tonnes of litter!
Our staff supported the Trust by holding fundraising events in July - walking, rowing, running, cycling and kayaking over 7,500 miles in the process - thats the equivalent of crossing the Atlantic twice!
WILDLIFE Chessington Zoos breeding programmes had a busy year, In 2016 the focus for the Trust is on habitat protection.
SEA LIFE including two firsts for Chessington - the birth of two Blesbok sites will be working with the Trust to fund projects helping to Antelope and a Southern Three-banded Armadillo.
Other protect local habitats and wildlife across the globe.
To find out successes include five Sitatunga calves, two Squirrel monkey more about the Trust and the conservation projects we are babies and a Humbolt Penguin chick in their brand new walksupporting, just visit www.
The Chessington Conservation Fund expanded its support in Ecuador to enable the expansion of a rainforest nature reserve by a massive 137 acres.
This area was at a specific risk of destruction by silica and gold mining so this purchase has safeguarded this important nature hotspot.
WILD LIFE Sydney Zoo is part of several managed species programmes including the national Save the Tasmanian Devil breeding programme.
Adopt an animal packages are also sold for koalas, wombats, bilbies, cassowaries and Tasmanian devils with all proceeds going to the WILD LIFE Conservation Fund WLCF.
55 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way  Strategy and governance We promote a culture Merlins strategy on sustainability and the environment is to manage resources responsibly.
Ultimate responsibility of environmental awareness for this strategy rests with the CEO, with management teams responsible for implementation at local and responsibility and regional levels.
Environmental policy We recognise that our operations impact upon the environment and that effective management of this impact is essential for sustainable business success.
We are committed to regular monitoring, auditing and review of our activities and identifying opportunities for sustainable environmental improvement, in line with our strategic business goals and in order to minimise the potentially harmful effects of such activity.
Environment and energy management We have specific budgets set aside to implement We will: environmentally focused initiatives and an annual Environmental Award to recognise the great work done at our sites in this Comp ly with all relevant legislation and where area.
We have developed groupwide sustainability management appropriate and practicable exceed these and carbon reduction plans and a number of water and waste requirements and apply best practice.
management initiatives that have been developed to encourage Promote a cult ure of environmental sites and build on examples of best practice across the Group, responsibility and awareness through the through 2015 and beyond.
Promote comm unication of our environmental We participate in the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment sustainability initiatives.
CRC energy efficiency scheme, EU Energy Efficiency Encou rage business partners to carry out Directives ESOS UK and other applicable environmental their activities in an environmentally regulations globally.
Fur ther develop our excellent standards on managing marine habitat and wildlife.
Implement pr actical and cost-effective water, waste and energy conservation and pollution control measures to minimise environmental impacts associated with the Groups operations.
Encou rage regular investments in environmental initiatives.
Measure, monitor and make public our annual carbon emissions, with a carbon reduction target of at least 2% year on year.
W ork with stakeholders to minimize the impact of our products and services.
Str ive to continually improve our environmental performance and ensure our strategic business growth is sustainable.
Solar powered cars at LEGOLAND Florida 56 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FORCE FOR GOOD Corporate Social Responsibility - The Merlin Way  We recognise the responsibility we have to the workers in our supply chain and seek to ensure our products are made in an appropriate environment and the products we source are produced in accordance with international laws and legislation.
We require all of our suppliers to sign the Merlin Entertainments Standard Terms and Conditions of Purchase, which captures the Groups policies in areas such as fraud, bribery and child labour.
We will independently audit certain categories Greenhouse gas GHG reporting of suppliers who produce Merlin Entertainments branded The Company is required to annually report its carbon products.
We commit to working with suppliers to ensure dioxide emissions in tonnes emitted.
During the year DEFRA they achieve our standards.
Strict sanctions are applied when released updated carbon factors, reflecting a significant drop standards are not met.
in the purchased UK electricity carbon factor when compared to 2014.
This, taken with other technical revisions made, is We will enter into rebate and volume discount arrangements estimated to have contributed 2% to the savings noted above.
with suppliers where appropriate but do not require suppliers to make loyalty or pay to stay type payments to the Group.
Our payment terms vary in different territories: standard payment terms are 45 days.
Reportboundaries Financial control - All facilities under the Groups direct financial control HumanRights have been included.
Merlin has implemented a Human Rights Policy that sets out our Consistencywith This report covers the twelve month approach in this area.
We are guided in this by the International financialstatements period from 1 December 2014 to Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 30 November 2015 in comparison to our financial year of January to Rights at Work: and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational December 2015.
The Policy notes that: Methodology The WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas We value diversity and have a commitment to equal Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition opportunity and intolerance of discrimination and harassment.
applying emissions factors from We will not engage in child labour.
We will not use forced or compulsory labour and have Intensityratio Emissions per 1 million of revenue policies in place regarding non-excessive working hours.
We respect employees right to join, form or not to join Scope1 18,980 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 a labour union without fear of reprisal, intimidation or 2014: 17,436 tonnes harassment and will act in good faith when legally Scope2 123,277 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 required to enter into collective bargaining agreements.
LocalisedBased 2014: 125,989 tonnes We operate in full compliance with local labour laws Scope2 2,292 tonnes of CO equivalent regarding wages, benefits, holidays and rest breaks.
2 MarketBased 2014: nil We are committed to maintain a safe, secure and healthy workplace for our employees.
GroupGrossand 139,965 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 Netemission 2014: 143,425 tonnes We will comply with all relevant legislation and where appropriate and practicable, exceed these requirements 1,278 million Intensitybaseline and apply best practice.
2014: 1,249 million revenue 110 tonnes of CO equivalent per Emissions 2 1 million of revenue 2014: 115 tonnes intensity Table notes: We value diversity Scope 1 refers to direct emissions natural gas, LPG, heating oil, refrigerants, diesel, petrol.
Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions purchased electricity, purchased heat and steam.
and have a commitment Scope 2 market based offsets are renewable energy certificates purchased in the USA.
Our base year 2014 emissions intensity value has been adjusted from 113 tonnes to equal opportunity of CO per 1 million of revenue, as previously reported, to 115 tonnes of CO per 2 2 1 million of revenue in line with our carbon recalculation policy, largely due to the inclusion of refrigerants which were not reported in 2014.
Our annual target is to reduce our carbon emission intensity by 2% year on year.
