Financial Review During 2015 the Group continued to grow across all business areas.
The strategy of offering customers a diverse range of products has meant the Group continued to deliver strong Matthew Price revenue growth of 14%.
Chief Financial Officer Revenue The Group traded strongly in the year with revenue increasing 14% to 281.7m and net profit after tax of 63.4m 2014: 52.8m, up 20%.
The Group invested 19.6m in its technology as part of a three-year capital investment programme.
281.7m 14% When reviewing performance, the Directors use a number of adjusted measures, including adjusted operating profit which Adjusted earnings increased by 15% to 100.1m 2014: 87.3m.
This is reconciled per share on the opposite page.
In 2015 the Group continued to grow across all business areas.
The strategy of offering customers a diversified range of products has 14.5p 18% meant the Group continued to deliver strong revenue growth of 14%.
Growth was particularly strong in the Money and Home Net cash Services businesses, while Insurance growth was lower, as a result of strong second half comparatives in the previous year and tougher competition.
com was 34% up on last year before eliminating intra-group revenues.
Growth came from credit cards, current accounts and utilities, the last of which again benefited from the success of Cheap Energy Club, launched in 2013, and popular collective switches.
com contributed 21.4m to Group adjusted operating profit 2014: 15.1m.
com grew its revenue for the full year by 8% and launched the new technology platform with innovative tools to enhance flexibility and the usability of the site for customers.
20 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Extract of Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Note m m Revenue 281.7 248.1 Cost of sales 56.3 52.4 Gross profit 225.4 195.7 Distribution expenses 34.2 34.0 Administrative expenses 110.8 97.8 Operating profit 80.5 63.9 Reconciliation to adjusted operating profit: Operating profit 80.5 63.9 Amortisation of acquisition related intangible assets 1 14.9 19.6 Contingent payable in relation to the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
com 2 4.8 3.9 Adjusted operating profit 100.1 87.3 Adjusted earnings per ordinary share: basic p 14.5 12.3 diluted p 14.5 12.2 Full Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 80 Notes Group gross margins increased from 78.9% to 80.0%, largely as Basis of preparation a result of increased volumes of traffic on channels other than The results show the trading results for the years ended 31 December 2015 online paid search.
The proportion of direct to site revenues and 2014 respectively.
The following adjustments have been made in arriving increased from 79% in 2014 to 84% in 2015.
Paid search at adjusted operating profit: represented 15% of revenue in the year 2014: 17%.
1 Amortisation of acquisition related intangible assets The acquisition of Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited by the Distribution costs were broadly in line with last year, with the Company prior to Listing gave rise to 207.2m of intangible assets.
These will Group continuing the successful Youre So MoneySuperMarket be written off over a period of 310 years with a charge of 13.2m expensed campaign on television supported by radio and print.
The acquisition of the trade and certain assets of MoneySavingExpert.
com and a sole trader business from Martin Lewis Adjusted administrative costs increased by 23% from 73.9m to together MSE on 21 September 2012 by the Group gave rise to 12.9m of intangible assets.
These will be written off over a period of 310 years with a 91.1m in 2015.
Adjusted staff costs including contract resource charge of 1.6m included within 2015 2014: 1.7m.
were 22% higher at 51m, largely because of increased headcount levels.
Share-based payment charges were also higher as a result 2 Contingent payable in relation to the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert of the increased share price.
Other administrative costs increased The Group has recognised an administrative expense relating to deferred by 8m mainly as a result of increased technology amortisation remuneration which is linked to continued employment in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in 2015 of 4.8m 2014: 3.9m.
costs, together with increased premises, IT and professional costs.
Reference is made below to adjusted cost base and adjusted distribution and Adjusted operating profit margins remained broadly stable at administration expenses.
These measures represent costs charged to the 35.5% 2014: 35.2%.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, less intangible amortisation relating to acquisitions, costs recognised in respect of the contingent payable in relation to the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert and Group KPIs corporate finance fees.
The Directors use key performance indicators KPIs to assess the performance of the business against the Groups strategy.
Our The Group remains committed to its technology development strategy is to build on our core business of helping customers to and invested 19.6m in 2015.
This investment, as part of a find the right product by investing in our technology, customer three-year programme, focuses on three areas developing our data and tools.
This enables us to build deeper relationships, and data capability, building a new aggregation engine, and deliver more value to both customers and providers.
The three upgrading our customer experience and journey.
The investment strategic priorities are: be the best site: earn customer loyalty: and allows for greater flexibility and scalability across our different be the preferred partner for our providers.
The KPIs measure our channels and any future channels.
Customers will benefit from progress against these priorities.
better connectivity across channels and are increasingly able to use different devices to conduct the same transaction seamlessly.
The Group believes this investment allows it to deliver services more effectively to customers through improved personalisation and better experience on mobile devices.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21 Financial Review continued Best site: Be the easiest way for people to find the right products for their needs 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Change Average monthly unique visitors 23.6m 22.5m 5% Investment in technology 19.6m 16.1m 22% During the year we invested 19.6m in our technology and delivered improvements to the customer journey.
We introduced our new platform across the largest channels at MoneySuperMarket and TravelSupermarket, launched the MoreMoney App and launched My Suitcase on the new TravelSupermarket site.
This enhances the customer experience by making transactions more intuitive and joined up across the business.
The 5% increase in average monthly unique visitors to nearly 24 million shows the improved usability as well as success in offering great ways to save money.
Earn customer loyalty: Trusted destination brands 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Change Unique adults choosing to share data 18.6m 15.8m 18% Net promoter score 48% 38% 10% Savings made by customers 1.60bn 1.43bn 12% We added nearly 3 million more customers to MyProfile which allows users to keep their details up to date.
This helps us personalise services more and makes it easier for customers to save money.
We estimate that in 2015 customer savings increased 12% to 1.6bn.
More and more customers want to use our services via multiple devices and so we will continue to make sure they work just as well on mobiles and tablets.
Already this year customers can, regardless of device, access the same platform and pick up their transaction and details where they left off.
Our work earning customer loyalty is demonstrated by a 10% improvement in our net promoter score 48%.
Preferred partner: Be the best way for providers to acquire customers 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Change Number of providers 877 723 21% Marketing margin 68% 65% 3% Our business can only thrive by adding value to our providers.
We do this by making improvements to our CRM capability and other marketing to help providers reach the right customers effectively.
We use our data tools, analytics and position as the only major independent price comparison website to develop relationships with providers and secure market leading exclusive products for customers.
Providers understand the value we bring which is why we continue to attract a strong panel of providers on our sites.
22 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Trading performance The Group operates across a number of businesses and markets.
These are discussed below: 1 Revenue 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 m % m % Money 72.4 26 58.9 24 Insurance 140.2 50 138.0 56 Home Services 37.5 13 22.4 9 MoneySuperMarket.
com 30.7 11 22.8 9 Other businesses 0.1 0.2 1 Intercompany revenue 23.7 9 16.8 7 Total 281.7 100 248.1 100 1 In the above table revenues in MoneySuperMarket.
com arising from traffic from MoneySavingExpert.
com have been shown in both MoneySuperMarket.
com to present the revenues from MoneySuperMarket.
com on a consistent basis and to show the contribution of the MoneySavingExpert.
com business to the Group.
Intercompany revenues have been eliminated as shown above.
Money The Money vertical offers customers the ability to search for and compare products including credit cards, current accounts, mortgages, loans, debt solutions, savings accounts and business finance.
It also includes elements of the Groups leads business.
Revenue in the money vertical increased by 23% from 58.9m to 72.4m.
Revenue growth was particularly strong in current accounts, as a result of more switching.
Revenue from credit related products, such as secured and unsecured loans, credit cards and mortgages were ahead of prior year.
Trading improved in the second half of the year relative to the first half - the first half rose 20%, while the second half was up 26% on 2014 comparatives, led by strong growth in credit card, current accounts and loans, all helped by customer journey improvements.
The Governments Funding for Lending scheme, which means financial institutions can borrow from the Bank of England at attractive rates, continued to mean that few attractive savings products are on the market.
The Government announced on 30 November that the scheme was to be extended for a further period to 31 January 2018.
Insurance The Insurance vertical offers customers the ability to search for and compare insurance products including breakdown, dental, home, life, medical, motor, pet and travel insurance.
Revenue in the Insurance vertical increased 2% from 138.0m to 140.2m.
After a first half in which revenues rose 8%, the second half, with strong 2014 comparatives, saw an overall decline of 5%.
Motor and home insurance revenues were impacted by higher competitor marketing spend.
Towards the end of the year, the motor and home insurance channels went live on the new technology platform, improving mobile performance and allowing the Group to make improvements to customer journeys through 2016.
Travel insurance showed good annual growth, benefiting from improvements to the site and life insurance continued to grow strongly following the redesign of the customer journey in 2015.
An additional 3m 5m online and offline marketing spend is planned during 2016.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23 Financial Review continued Home Services Cash balance and dividend The Home Services vertical offers customers the ability to As at 31 December 2015 the Group had net cash of 16.7m search for and compare products such as broadband, mobile 2014: 13.1m.
phones, vouchers, shopping and utilities.
Revenue in the Home Services vertical increased by 68% from 22.4m to 37.5m.
In December 2015, the Group secured a new three-year revolving credit facility of 100m in committed funds provided Utility switching makes up the majority of revenues in Home in equal parts by Lloyds Bank PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
The Services and this continued to benefit from collective switches, Group also has an accordion option to apply to the banks for up allowing customers to apply for market-leading tariffs available to an additional 100m of committed funds during the first two exclusively through the Group, together with the continued years of the facility.
This replaced the previous facility provided success of Cheap Energy Club which was launched by by Lloyds.
The facility was unused at the year end.
This allows householders to register for alerts when savings available against their current Having reviewed the performance of the Group and the cash tariff exceed a predetermined amount set by the consumer.
required by the business, the Board is recommending a final dividend, subject to shareholder approval, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 6.6p per ordinary share.
com offers customers the ability to search Together with the interim dividend of 2.55p per ordinary share for and compare car hire, flights, hotels and package holidays, paid on 11 September 2015, this gives a total dividend for the amongst other things.
Revenue increased by 8% from 22.6m year of 9.15p per ordinary share 2014: 8.00p.
The Board is committed to a progressive dividend policy, with In the fourth quarter, TravelSupermarket went live on its new on-going monitoring of the appropriate capital structure.
website, offering an enhanced customer offering and innovative technology for planning and booking travel.
The ex-dividend date for the final dividend is 31 March 2016, with a record date of 1 April 2016 and a payment date of 6 May MoneySavingExpert.
Shareholders will have the opportunity to elect to reinvest MoneySavingExpert is one of the UKs biggest consumer finance their cash dividend and purchase existing shares in the websites and is dedicated to cutting consumers costs and Company through a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
fighting their corner by means of journalism, great tools and a large community.
Tax The Group tax charge of 16.4m in the Consolidated Statement MoneySavingExpert.
com generated revenue of 30.7m 2014: of Comprehensive Income represents an effective tax rate of 22.8m, of which 23.7m 2014: 16.8m related to revenues also 20.5% 2014: 19.9% as this included the non-taxable profit on recognised within MoneySuperMarket.
com, generated from disposal of an associate, HD Decisions Limited.
This is broadly traffic referred to it by MoneySavingExpert.
It contributed in line with the prevailing rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5%.
21.4m 2014: 15.1m to Group adjusted operating profit.
In future, and once the statutory rate of tax has settled, the Trading trends have been consistent with those seen by Group expects the underlying effective rate of tax to MoneySuperMarket.
com with good growth in revenue from approximate to the standard UK corporation tax rate.
Utilities revenue benefitted from Cheap Energy Club and collective switches.
Earnings per ordinary share In September, the earnout period following the purchase in Basic statutory earnings per ordinary share for the year ended 2012 of the trade and certain assets of MoneySavingExpert.
Adjusted basic earnings and a sole trader business from Martin Lewis concluded, with a per ordinary share increased from 12.3p to 14.5p per share.
final payment of 20.6m in November compared to a potential The adjusted earnings per ordinary share is based on profit before maximum of 27.0m.
The Group recognised in administrative tax after adding back intangible amortisation related to expenses a charge of 4.8m 2014: 3.9m in the Consolidated acquisitions, costs related to the contingent consideration payable Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of deferred for MoneySavingExpert.
com and the profit on disposal of HD remuneration linked to this.
Decisions Limited in the prior year.
A tax rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% has been applied to calculate adjusted profit after tax.
24 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Key contractual arrangements Viability statement Moneysupermarket.
com Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, As required by Provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK is party to contracts and other arrangements which the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the Directors judge are essential to the Groups business.
prospects of the Group over a three-year period to December 2018.
In making this assessment the Directors took account of As with any internet business the Group is dependent upon its the Business Model and Principal Risks set out on pages 6 to 7 ability to attract customers to its website either directly or and 30 to 31 of the Strategic Report.
through paid search or portal partners, and revenue generated from commercial arrangements with its providers.
Business Model The Group has a simple business model matching customers to The Group uses television advertising to attract customers to the right providers.
It uses online services to help customers to its website directly.
The Group has contracts with a number of compare a wide range of products in one place and make an media agencies to acquire advertising inventory from informed choice when taking out the product most suited to their commercial television companies.
The Group typically has a needs.
For our providers, it offers an efficient and cost-effective commitment of between 6 and 10 weeks expenditure at any way to reach a large volume of informed customers who are one time.
Television and other offline advertising costs actively looking for a product.
For the majority of our services, represent 75% 2014: 83% of distribution costs.
we receive a success-based marketing fee from the providers.
This business model operates through the following key principles: The Group uses search engines to acquire traffic via paid the Group relies on customer transactions for its revenues search.
Although there are a number of search engines that and does not have long-term contracted revenue streams: operate in the UK, Google is the dominant search engine and customers will continue to see value in shopping around for accounts for the majority of the Groups spend in this area.
The products and services and will aim to save money by doing Group has no forward commitment to search engines and so: and manages its spend on a real time basis.
providers will continue to have strategies of new customer acquisition and will develop products and services to fulfil The Group has a number of contracts with providers which are that strategy.
based either on a cost per click basis or a cost per application basis or a hybrid of the two.
It also has a number of commercial The Group has three strategic priorities to be the best site, arrangements based on the number of page impressions earn customer loyalty and be the preferred partner for our served in the case of banner advertising.
The Group does not providers.
The Board has set KPIs to monitor the delivery of consider it has any material contracts with providers in any one these strategic priorities.
The Group does, however, frequently deal with providers across a range of different channels managed under The Strategic Report sets out the Groups performance on the different contracts, often to different parts of the same main KPIs.
The Board monitors and reviews progress against organisation, and occasionally through third party media three time horizonsquarterly to review and reforecast agencies.
At this consolidated channel level, the largest performance against the Annual Plan and Budget: annually to individual provider represented approximately 3% 2014: 4% establish a clear Annual Plan and Budget that will deliver against of Group revenue in 2015. the Strategic Plan: and a three-year Strategic Plan re-assessed annually, to determine the strategy of the Group.
The Board believes that a three-year cycle is the right time period to plan the business as this links to the expected lifecycle of the Groups technology and reflects the frequent changes in the way that consumers choose to use technology.
Therefore, the Board is using a three-year period to make this viability assessment.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25 Financial Review continued Risk Management Viability assessment The Board has identified the Groups Principal Risks around In making its assessment of viability, the Board has considered the delivering these strategic priorities, which represent a risk or resilience of the Group using scenario-planning based on the combination of risks in severe but reasonable scenarios that Principal Risks to test the Groups planned earnings, cash flows can seriously affect the future prospects or reputation of the and viability over the three-year period.
Using its judgement on Group through threatening its business model, future the likelihood of the Principal Risks and the probability of them performance, solvency or liquidity.
For best site, the principal being interrelated, the Board assessed the risks separately and in risks are competition and changes in consumer behaviour: for certain combinations of stress testing scenarios.
In arriving at its earning customer loyalty, they are brand strength, product conclusion, the Board is making the assumption that the key offering and consumer trust: and for being the preferred aspects of customer and provider behaviour set out above which partner, the principal risk is ongoing relevance to partners.
underpin the business model will continue.
It is also assuming that customers and providers will continue to want to transact online.
In addition, the Directors believe that the Group faces risks around regulation and economic uncertainty especially as that may Based on the Companys current position and Principal Risks, influence the availability of attractive products for customers.
together with the results of this robust assessment and the Companys ongoing risk management processes, the Directors The Board manages risks across the Group through a formal have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to risk identification and management framework, designed to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due ensure that risks are properly identified, prioritised, evaluated over the three-year period of their assessment.
and mitigated to the extent possible.
Key aspects of this framework include: Going concern a Risk Appetite Statement expressing the amount and type Having reassessed the Principal Risks, the Directors are of risk the Board is willing to accept in order to achieve the satisfied that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in Groups strategic objectives: operation for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than regular assessments of current and emerging risks being 12 months from the date of this Report.
Accordingly, the faced by the Group including internal control effectiveness Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in and mitigating actions: preparing the Financial Statements.
risk metrics and thresholds which are monitored as potential indicators of risk: scenario planning based on the Principal Risks: and oversight from the Risk and Compliance and Internal Audit functions.
26 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015
