Performance review Building a world-class portfolio of assets Chinarevskoye eld The 274 square kilometre Chinarevskoye licence is located in the Batys province of northwestern Kazakhstan, approximately 100 kilometres north-east of Uralsk and near to the Russian border.
Annual boe production 2015 2P reserves breakdown for Chinarevskoye eld % 14,742,614 boe 39 48 13 Crude oil and condensate LPG 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Dry gas Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 24 24 Annual Report 2015 4,802,553 13,483,006 16,855,027 16,205,641 14,742,614 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 25 25 Performance review continued Building a world-class portfolio of assets Chinarevskoye field Geology Stable business environment Multi-layered structure Exploration and production licence development of the Chinarevskoye We were granted an exploration field, and the respective royalties, andproduction licence for the profit share and tax liabilities payable Chinarevskoye field in May 1997, to the government.
whichwas extended in 2008, to 2033 Outlook for all oil and gas bearing reservoirs The licence and the PSA are currently and horizons covering 185 square valid until 2031 with respect to the kilometres of the licence area.
The north-eastern Tournaisan reservoir licence for the north-eastern and 2033 for the rest of the Tournaisian reservoir is valid until 2031.
Chinarevskoye field, and we must Production Sharing Agreement comply with the terms of the PSA exploration permit, the production Nostrum operates under a permit and the development plans grandfathered PSA with the during this period.
To date, Nostrum Government of Kazakhstan, which sets has met all of its capital investment the parameters for the exploration and obligations under the PSA.
Geology, reserves and drilling Geology Drilling The Chinarevskoye field is a multi-layer Hydrocarbons were first discovered structure with ten reservoirs and inthe Chinarevskoye reservoirs during 44compartments spread over three the drilling of nine wells in the Soviet areas: the western area contains era.
Between 2004-2015, 72 wells and 16compartments: the northern side-tracks have been drilled under areahas 24 compartments and the thePSA.
southern area has four compartments.
We completed our drilling 2015 Commercial hydrocarbons have programme, successfully completing beenfound in the Lower Permian, six production wells and two appraisal Bashkirian, Bobrikovski, Tournaisian, wells.
Famennian, Mulinski, Ardatovski, andBiski-Afoninski reservoirs.
Our 2016 drilling programme will initially be set targeting the addition Reserves ofthree new production wells and Based on the Ryder Scott report, thecompletion of an appraisal well datedDecember 2015, the proved onthe Rostoshinskoye field.
This will andprobable reserves for the allowproduction to be maintained at Chinarevskoye field amount to approximately 40,000 boepd during 383 mboe 2014: 473 mboe.
The drilling programme is reserves amount to 147 mboe reviewed on a quarterly basis and 2014:192 mboe and probable canbe scaled up at short notice.
Oil and condensate amount to 148 mbbl of proven and probable reserves 2014: 198mbbl, LPG to 51mbbl 2014: 68mbbl and gas to 184 mboe 207 mboe.
The decrease inreserves from 2014 was primarily aresult of the fall in oil price, but was also impacted by a number of other factors, including production in 2015, the deferral of development projects.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 26 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures On-site facilities Location Oil and stabilised condensate Our oil pipeline has a maximum All our facilities are close to major pipeline and railway loading throughput of 3 million tonnes per international railway lines, as well as terminal year.
The rail-loading terminal, which several major oil and gas pipelines.
Our 120km oil pipeline and receives the crude oil and condensate, This advantageous location provides railway-loading terminal, at Rostoshi has a capacity of 3-4 million tonnes access to flexible transportation near Uralsk, were successfully peryear.
linksfor the off-takers of our products.
Since 2009, our Our infrastructure also includes crude Our on-site facilities have grown crude oil has been transported via the oil storage tanks on site and at the rail substantially, with our second pipeline from the Chinarevskoye field terminal: condensate tanks on site and US$1.2billion capital investment site to the railway-loading terminal at the terminal and a loading facility phasecurrently underway.
where it is stored and transported atthe railway terminal.
The loading byrail car to final off-takers.
Crude oil infrastructure terminal allows for 32 railcars to be Our oil infrastructure consists of an oil Our stabilised liquid condensate is also loaded simultaneously.
The facility is treatment and gathering facility OTF, transported through the same pipeline also equipped with a vapour recovery capable of processing 400,000 tonnes unit the first in Kazakhstans history.
using a PIG system, which separates of crude oil per year: a 120km the crude oil from the stabilised All of our infrastructure has the oilpipeline: oil gathering and condensate.
This protects the capacity to accommodate the planned transportation lines: an oil-loading products quality from being reduced increase in throughput, in line with facility at the rail terminal: oil storage as it would in a multi-purpose pipeline ourstrategy to double production.
facilities for up to 30,000 cubic metres and ensures the ability to command of oil and railway cars for the higher export prices.
associated crude oil and stabilised liquid condensate.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 27 Performance review continued Assessing the potential of our adjacent fields Rostoshinskoye, Darjinskoye &  elds Value accretive acquisitions form part of our strategy to grow.
In 2013, we acquired three additional fields within 120km of Chinarevskoye, to add additional reserves to our portfolio.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 28 28 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures 2P reserves of 60-120km US$10m from Chinarevskoye appraisal programme 87 mboe license area planned for 2016 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 29 29 Performance review continued Assessing the potential of our adjacent fields Rostoshinskoye, Darjinskoye &  fields Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 30 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Rostoshinskoye, Darjinskoye &  fields Subsoil rights acquisition Appraisal programme Total combined reserves completed The cost of the appraisal programme At Nostrum, we have an outstanding In 2013, Nostrum signed an asset for the next 2-3 years is expected track record of converting reserves.
purchase agreement to acquire tobeapproximately US$85 million.
Anupdated reserve report by 100%of the subsoil use rights During 2014, we processed and RyderScott, as at December 2015, relatedtothree oil and gas fields interpreted the 3-D seismic survey hasshown 470 mboe of proved inthepre-Caspian Basin to the ofRostoshinskoye, and completed andprobable reserves for the north-west ofUralsk.
The signing there-processing and re-interpretation Chinarevskoye and adjacent fields.
ofthesupplementary agreements ofthe Darjinskoye 3-D and In line with our strategy, we will bythe Ministry of Oil & Gas became  3-D seismic continue to look to increase our effective from 1 March 2013. surveys.
A new reserves report will be reserve base and secure production prepared after drilling of new appraisal Geology growth.
The results of the reserves report Exploration activities over the past willdetermine the development decades have successfully shown programme as well as provide greater thatthe three fields contain detail on reservoir size and fluid hydrocarbons suitable for commercial composition.
production in several reservoirs  age.
Morespecifically, the bulk of the hydrocarbons are located in the Bashkirian stage of the Carboniferous.
Significant appraisal of the existing accumulations and exploration of deeper intervals is still required prior to their development.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 31 Performance review continued Products and processes Oil Crude oil wells Oil treatment facility OTF Associated gas Exploration & production Gas condensate wells Gas treatment facility GTF Gas Power generation Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 32 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Leveraging our competitive advantage through our products and processes.
Oil Railway terminal Refineries Crude oil NOG pipeline C C 5 25 120km with PIG-system Sea port Final destination Stabilised Intergas Central Asia gas pipeline condensate Connection point C C 5 10 Dry gas Liquid petroleum gas Truck transport LPG Railway terminal Final destination Gas Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 33 NOG pipeline 17km Performance review continued Products and processes Products Quality Sales Pricing Transportation 'HQVLW H[SRUWHG LQ %UHQWEDVHG SULFLQJ 6KLSSHG WKURXJK Crude oil 3 0.815g cm accordance with for exports our own 120km the PSA, 15% sold pipeline from the GHJUHHV $3, 'RPHVWLF VDOHV DW domestically.
field site to our 50% discount $YHUDJH VXOSKXU Destinations own rail terminal include Nestes in Uralsk, from 0.4% refinery in Finland where it is shipped 6XSHULRU LQ TXDOLW and SOCAR in in railcars to to other primary Azerbaijan off-takers at various benchmark crude destinations oils produced in Kazakhstan 'HQVLW H[SRUWHG %UHQW EDVHG SULFLQJ 6KLSSHG WKURXJK Stabilised 3 0.750-0.790g cm 30,000 tonnes the same 120km condensate permonth are pipeline to the rail $YHUDJH VXOSKXU sold to Trafigura.
terminal in Uralsk, 0.2% Destinations from where it is include the Russian shipped in railcars GHJUHHV $3, Black Sea port to various of Taman destinations LHOG JUDGH TXDOLW, QWHUQDWLRQDO 6KLSSHG LQ VSHFLDO LPG No olefins and low exported.
Mediterranean LPG LPG trucks from sulphur content Destinations price Sonatrach the field to the rail include the Russian for Black Sea terminal in Uralsk.
Black Sea ports deliveries, or the From here it is Brest quotation for shipped in railcars Eastern European to end consumers deliveries and traders H[SRUWHG [SRUW VXSSO 6KLSSHG WKURXJK Dry gas agreement our own 17km negotiated pipeline from annually.
the field to the connection point RFDO VXSSO with the Intergas agreements Central Asia gas negotiated pipeline, from annually with where it is theoff-takers distributed by inalong-term the off-taker framework agreement Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 34 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Market share, sales Development of infrastructure GTU3 andpricingpolicy The gas treatment facility uses a gas The third unit of the gas treatment We closely monitor the production, utilisation concept, and was designed facility will add 2.5 billion cubic metres marketing and transportation of our to treat raw gas from gas condensate of processing capacity, bringing the liquids as this makes up the largest reservoirs and the associated gas total to 4.2 billion cubic metres and proportion of our revenues.
We are coming from the OTF into three consequently more than doubling able to achieve a relatively high separate products stabilised production capacity.
GTU3 is due netback for our export production due condensate, LPGand dry gas.
The GTF tobecompleted in 2017. to the transportation of our products associated infrastructure includes a Power generation plant through our own infrastructure and power generation station, an LPG The gas-fired power generation plant theresulting quality guarantees.
storage tank farm, an LPG loading is linked to the gas treatment facility facility at the rail terminal, LPG railcars The commercial production of dry gas with an output of 15 megawatts and a 17km dry gas pipeline.
adds significant benefits through the andprovides the field site with the easy off-take of dry gas volumes using GTU1&2 electricity it requires.
straightforward pipeline logistics, the This included the construction of Gas pipeline generation of our own power supply, twogas treatment units, each with Nostrum has its own 17km gas pipeline and the partially sponsored supply of thecapacity to treat approximately that was completed in 2011 and is dry gas to neighbouring communities.
850million cubic metres of raw gas.
linked to the Orenburg-Novopskov The gastreatment facility is now Marketing and sales gaspipeline.
The maximum annual producing at capacity with an average Our sales and marketing department throughput of this pipeline is several annual production of 40,391 boepd employs experienced traders.
team is constantly working towards negotiating new off-take contracts andidentifying efficient transportation options for these new products.
