Strategic report Finance review Free cash fl ow at US$3,233 million was strong and was US$670 million higher than the prior year.
Financial highlights The depreciation of key currencies against the US dollar had a signi cant negative impact on the translation of reported results Group net producer revenue NPR declined 2% to US$26,288 million but increased by 5% on an organic, constant currency basis: revenue down 1% to US$22,130 million EBITA of US$6,367 million, a decrease of 1% on the prior year restated amount, up 6% on an organic, constant currency basis EBITA margin progression was in line with the prior year, up 30 bps on an organic, constant currency basis Adjusted pro t before tax of US$5,642 million, a decrease of 1%: pro t before tax of US$4,830 million, level with the prior year Adjusted EPS of 239.1 US cents, a 1% decrease: adjusted EPS in constant currency grew by 5% and by 6% excluding the prior year net earnings impact of the disposal of our investment in Tsogo Sun: basic EPS of 205.7 US cents, down 3% Total dividend for the year of 113.0 US cents per share, up 8% Free cash ow of US$3,233 million was US$670 million higher than the prior year, mainly due to higher dividend receipts from associates and joint ventures and lower interest and tax payments Net debt of US$10,465 million, a decrease of US$3,838 million from the prior year: strong balance sheet, gearing down 900 bps to 43.0% and net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio reduced to 1.6 The groups financial goal is to deliver a higher return to our shareholders than our peer group, with an aspiration to be in the top quartile.
We measure our performance against this goal by assessing total shareholder return TSR, through growth in adjusted EPS, both on reported and constant currency bases, and free cash ow.
Domenic fide Lorenzo Acting Chief Financial Of cer We achieved adjusted EPS growth in the year of 5% on a constant currency basis, as a result of higher operating pro t, reduced finance costs and a lower tax charge.
However, after re ecting the adverse translational impact of foreign exchange rate movements, reported adjusted EPS declined by 1%.
Adjusted EPS on a constant currency basis and excluding the prior year net earnings impact of the disposal of our investment in Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd Tsogo Sun was up 6%.
Free cash ow at US$3,233 million was strong and was The depreciation of key US$670 million higher than the prior year, as a result of good cash ow generation, lower interest and tax payments and increased dividend currencies had a signifi cant receipts from associates and joint ventures, including the first dividend negative impact on the from our Chinese associate of US$228 million, and the cycling of the additional investment in our Chinese associate in the prior year.
38 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report In the five years to 31 March 2015 we achieved a TSR of 121%, Group net producer revenue US$m compared with the median of the comparator group of 85% as Components of performance measured in accordance with the terms of our value share awards.
3.1% The differential between the two of 36 percentage points is our TSR 5.4 % key performance indicator as shown on page 15.
1.5% New accounting standards and restatements 26,436 0.2% The accounting policies followed are the same as those used 26,288 26,236 in the prior year except for the new standards, interpretations and amendments adopted by the group since 1 April 2014, as detailed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
The adoption of these new standards, interpretations and 1 2014 Volume Price Currency 2015 Currency 2015 amendments has caused changes to our results for the year ended mix translation Organic translation reported 31 March 2014, including EBITA for the year being increased by 1 Adjusted for disposals.
US$7 million, with a similar increase in our share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests due to the adoption As shown in the chart above, improved price and mix contributed 3% of IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11, Joint of the growth in group NPR, with price mix gains in all divisions, while arrangements, IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities, higher volumes contributed 1.5%.
Currency movements during the together with revised versions of IAS 27, Separate financial statements year reduced reported group NPR by 5%, as a result of the weakening and IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures.
The of all our key currencies against the US dollar.
The impact of acquisitions consolidated attributable pro t, total comprehensive income, balance was negligible on the prior year base as adjusted for disposals, which sheet and cash ow were unaffected.
Comparative information has principally related to the disposal of our investment in Tsogo Sun.
been restated as detailed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Additional disclosures are also included in the Group revenue declined in line with group NPR, while statutory consolidated financial statements as a result of adopting these revenue, which relates only to the revenue of our subsidiaries, new standards and amendments.
decreased by just 1%, primarily in Europe and Australia, as a result of soft trading and the impact of currency weakness on translated Key performance indicators KPIs results, partly offset by good revenue growth in Africa.
We use a range of KPIs to monitor progress against our strategy and our financial goal, as noted on page 15.
We have changed some of Group NPR per hl decreased by 3% on a reported basis yet increased our KPIs this year to align better with our strategy and remuneration by 3% on an organic, constant currency basis, with the primary reason basis, including adding a constant currency adjusted EPS growth KPI, for the difference being the depreciation of our key currencies.
The changing our volume KPI from lager to total beverages, amending our reported gures were also impacted by the disposal of our investment EBITA margin progression KPI to be on an organic, constant currency in Tsogo Sun, which contributed to group NPR but not volumes.
basis, replacing the capability programme bene ts KPI with a cost and On an organic, constant currency basis all divisions recorded group ef ciency programme savings KPI and amending the TSR KPI to link NPR per hl growth as a result of favourable brand mix and selective to our value share awards rather than our performance share awards.
Further details of these changes are given on page 189.
Our KPIs and other performance indicators include non-GAAP performance Volumes measures to assess underlying performance.
These incorporate Good volume performance was delivered by our developing markets constant exchange rates for measuring revenue and pro t growth: in Africa and Latin America offset by volume declines in North America organic measures to exclude acquisition and divestment effects: and Asia Paci c, amid continued tough trading conditions and poor adjusted pro t measures to exclude exceptional items and weather, particularly in China.
Total volumes grew by 1% compared amortisation of certain intangible assets: and adjusted EBITDA with the prior year on an organic basis and by 2% on a reported basis.
Detailed fide nitions of these terms can Lager volumes were in line with the prior year on both organic and be found on pages 188 and 189, and for certain items reconciliations reported bases.
On a subsidiaries only basis, excluding our share of to the nearest equivalent GAAP measure are provided below or in our associates and joint ventures volumes, lager volumes grew by the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
2% on both reported and organic bases.
Soft drinks volumes grew by 8% on both bases, driven by Africa and Latin America.
Net producer revenue NPR Group net producer revenue NPR was US$26,288 million Reported Organic including our share of associates and joint ventures NPR of 2015 2014 % % US$9,754 million.
This represented a decrease of 2%, as a result hl m hl m change change of the adverse translational impact of foreign currency movements.
Total volumes 324 318 2 1 However, on an organic, constant currency basis group NPR Lager volumes 246 245 increased by 5% driven by our developing market operations in Soft drinks volumes 70 65 8 8 Africa and Latin America, with growth also in Europe and Asia Paci c, through a combination of improved mix, particularly brand mix, selective pricing and volume growth.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 39 Strategic report Finance review continued | The following chart shows organic growth in total beverage volumes EBITA growth % for each of the last five years.
Organic, constant currency basis 12 Total beverages: organic volume growth % 3.7 3.5 9 8 7 2.6 6 1.6 1.4 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 restated 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 EBITA margin EBITA margin at 24.2% was in line with the prior year.
The chart Input costs below shows EBITA margin by division, with Latin America, Europe Costs of goods sold including our share of MillerCoors costs of and North America making particular progress with growth of 40, goods sold, which comprise production and distribution costs, 50 and 110 bps respectively.
However, the margin in Africa and Asia increased by approximately 1% on the prior year on a constant Paci c declined by 70 and 150 bps respectively.
The disposal of our currency per hl basis, in line with our previous guidance for the year.
investment in Tsogo Sun negatively impacted the group EBITA margin Raw material input costs were in line with the prior year.
Costs per hl due to the higher margin achieved in the South Africa: Hotels and were impacted by the higher cost of crowns and labels for packaging, Gaming division.
transactional foreign exchange impacts from depreciating local currencies, and higher prices for adjuncts, sugar and glass.
This was Reported EBITA margin performance % offset by lower commodity prices for aluminium and European barley, following higher prices in the prior year due to a reduced European 2014 restated barley crop, and bene ts from our global procurement programme 2015 38.6 38.2 through commercial negotiations and projects such as container 33.2 light weighting.
Distribution costs grew by 1% in the full year on a 28.7 constant currency basis, primarily due to fuel price increases in Africa 26.3 25.6 24.1 24.2 24.224.2 but were offset by ef ciency bene ts from our cost and ef ciency 21.4 19.9 programme in Latin America and South Africa.
18.3 17.2 15.9 15.4 In the forthcoming financial year, we expect both the total cost of goods sold and total raw material input costs to increase by low single digits on a constant currency per hl basis.
This will be driven principally by adverse transactional foreign exchange impacts in Latin America and Africa, slightly higher barley prices and adverse mix effects.
Latin Africa Asia Europe North Retained South Africa: Group America Pacic America operations Hotels and These will be mitigated by continuing ef ciency bene ts from our Gaming cost and ef ciency programme.
EBITA We report EBITA earnings before interest, tax, amortisation excluding On an organic, constant currency basis, EBITA margin improved computer software and exceptional items as this is the key pro t by 30 bps, with similar trends as on a reported basis in each of metric by which the group is managed and operating performance our divisions.
Segmental performance is reported after the apportionment of attributable head of ce service costs.
EBITDA EBITDA, which comprises EBITA plus depreciation and amortisation We achieved EBITA growth of 6% on an organic, constant currency of computer software, including our share of associates and joint basis, with all divisions except Asia Paci c delivering growth.
Reported ventures depreciation and amortisation of computer software, EBITA including the impact of acquisitions and disposals declined by amounted to US$7,762 million for the year, a 2% reduction on the 1% compared with the restated prior year amount, to US$6,367 prior year.
For retained operations only, that is excluding our share million.
The depreciation of key currencies and the disposal of our of Tsogo Suns EBITDA, EBITDA for the year was level with the prior Tsogo Sun investment adversely impacted reported EBITA.
Associates and joint ventures contributed 27% of our EBITDA.
below shows the increase in EBITA for each of the last five years with each years growth shown in constant currency after excluding the Exceptional items impact of acquisitions and disposals.
Items that are material either by size or incidence are classi ed as exceptional items.
Further details on these items can be found in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
40 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Net exceptional charges of US$138 million before finance costs The effective rate of tax is calculated as the ratio of adjusted tax and tax were reported during the year 2014: US$202 million which expense to adjusted pro t before tax as shown below.
included net exceptional charges of US$63 million 2014: US$5 million 2014 related to our share of associates and joint ventures exceptional 2015 US$m charges.
The net exceptional charges included: US$m restated Taxation expense 1,273 1,173 US$313 million charge in respect of the impairment of our business Tax on amortisation 117 123 in India: Tax on exceptional items 83 27 US$401 million gain, after associated costs, on the disposal of Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 157 162 our investment in the Tsogo Sun hotels and gaming business: Adjusted tax expense 1,464 1,485 US$45 million additional gain on the 2012 disposal of our Angolan businesses to the Castel group in Africa: Pro t before tax 4,830 4,823 US$69 million charge related to the cost and ef ciency programme: Exceptional items excluding finance costs 138 202 and exceptional items US$139 million charge related to the final year of the integration Exceptional finance costs 15 programme and restructuring costs in Australia.
Amortisation 423 436 Share of associates and joint ventures tax and 236 258 Our share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items non-controlling interests in the year comprised a US$63 million charge relating to the Adjusted pro t before tax 5,642 5,719 impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in Efes Russian and Ukrainian businesses.
Effective tax rate 26.0% 26.0% In addition to the above, we incurred net exceptional costs within finance costs of US$15 million including a charge of US$48 million The reported corporate tax charge for the year was US$1,273 million, as a result of exercising our issuer call option to redeem in full our an increase of 9% compared with US$1,173 million in the prior year, US$850 million 6.5% notes due 2016, partially offset by a gain primarily as a result of the tax on the exceptional pro t realised on of US$33 million on the recycling of foreign currency translation the disposal of our investment in Tsogo Sun.
reserves following the repayment of an intercompany loan.
Corporate income taxes paid can be distorted relative to the annual Finance costs tax charge as a result of the payment of a tax liability falling outside Net finance costs were US$637 million, a 1% decrease on the prior the financial year, and because of deferred tax accounting treatment.
years US$645 million primarily as a result of the reduction in net Uncertainty of interpretation and application of tax law in some debt over the course of the year including the repayment of some jurisdictions also contributes to differences between the amounts paid higher interest rate bonds, partially offset by foreign exchange losses.
and those charged to the income statement.
The amount of tax paid Net finance costs in the year included net exceptional costs of in the year decreased to US$1,439 million from US$1,596 million in US$15 million, as described above, which have been excluded from the prior year.
The decrease was largely as a result of the signi cant adjusted finance costs and adjusted EPS.
Adjusted net finance costs tax prepayment in Australia in the prior year, partially offset by the are reconciled to net finance costs in the table below.
They were tax paid in relation to the exceptional gain on the disposal of our 4% lower than the prior year.
Interest cover increased to 10.7 times investment in Tsogo Sun.
from 10.3 times in the prior year.
We are publishing an updated version of Our Approach to Tax 2015 2014 report for 2015 which provides details of how we manage our taxes.
US$m US$m We are keen to develop this transparency initiative and remain Net finance costs 637 645 committed to ensuring that our reporting re ects best practice Net exceptional finance costs 15 and regulatory developments.
Adjusted finance costs 622 645 Tax revenues play a key role in funding local public services and We expect finance costs in the 2016 financial year to be lower than supporting vibrant communities.
We pay a signi cant amount those in 2015 as a result of reduced net debt.
of tax and in many countries we are one of the largest contributors to government income.
We are pleased that, through our business activities, our tax contributions across the world help the development Tax of the many economies in which we operate.
The effective rate of tax for the year before amortisation of intangible assets other than computer software, and exceptional items was In all our tax affairs, we seek to work proactively with local tax 26.0%, the same as in the prior year.
authorities to ensure that we comply with legislation and pay the right amount of tax.
Within this framework, we aim to adopt a balanced and We expect our effective tax rate for the forthcoming year will be commercial position, making decisions as transparently as possible.
In the medium term we continue with our We recognise that tax policy and management are a signi cant part expectation that the effective tax rate will be between 27% and 29%.
of running a sustainable and responsible business.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 41 Strategic report Finance review continued | Total taxes borne and collected by the group, including excise and Adjusted earnings decreased by 1% to US$3,835 million.
With the indirect taxes, and including those related to our MillerCoors joint weighted average number of basic shares in issue for the year of venture in the USA, amounted to US$10,639 million 2014: US$10,750 1,604 million, up slightly from the prior years 1,597 million, adjusted million in the year.
The composition and divisional analysis respectively EPS declined in both our reporting currency of US dollars and British is shown in the charts below.
However, it increased in South African rand as a result of the depreciation of that currency, as demonstrated in the table below.
Tax borne and collected by category % 2015 2014 change Excise 58% US cents 239.1 242.0 1 Other indirect taxes 20% UK pence 147.4 152.1 3 Taxes on pro ts 13% South African cents 2,649.7 2,451.7 8 Employment taxes 7% Tax withheld at source 2% US$10,639m Taxes on property 0% On a constant currency basis, adjusted EPS improved by 5% compared with the prior year, and improved by 6% excluding the prior year net earnings impact of Tsogo Sun.
A reconciliation of the statutory measure of pro t attributable to equity shareholders with adjusted earnings is shown in note 8 to the Tax borne and collected by region consolidated financial statements.
On a statutory basis, basic earnings per share were 3% down on the prior year primarily as a result of a Developing economies higher tax charge due to the tax on the disposal of our investment US$7,533m in Tsogo Sun.
Latin America 34% Africa 25% Dividends Europe 8% The board has proposed a final dividend of 87 US cents to make US$10,639m Asia Paci c 4% a total of 113 US cents per share for the year an increase of 8% over the prior year.
This represents dividend cover of 2.1 times based Developed economies on adjusted earnings per share 2014: 2.3 times.
Our guideline is US$3,106m to achieve dividend cover of between 2.0 and 2.5 times adjusted Asia Paci c 12% earnings.
The relationship between the growth in dividends per share Europe 9% and adjusted earnings per share is demonstrated in the chart below.
North America 8% Adjusted earnings per share EPS and dividend per share US cents Profi t and earnings Adjusted pro t before tax declined by 1% over the prior year to Adjusted EPS US$5,642 million primarily as a result of the adverse impact of Dividend per share currency depreciation more than offsetting improved constant currency group NPR per hl re ecting positive sales mix and selective 250 price increases, cost ef ciencies and lower finance costs.
On a statutory basis, pro t before tax of US$4,830 million was in line with 200 the prior year for the reasons given above together with a reduction in net exceptional charges.
The table below reconciles EBITA to 150 adjusted pro t before tax and to the statutory pro t before tax.
100 2014 2015 US$m % US$m restated change 50 EBITA 6,367 6,460 1 Adjusted finance costs 622 645 4 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Share of associates and joint ventures 103 96 7 finance costs Adjusted pro t before tax 5,642 5,719 1 It is also our intention that in future, barring exceptional circumstances, Exceptional items 138 202 32 each years interim dividend will be set at 25% of the prior years total Exceptional finance costs 15 dividend.
Accordingly, the interim dividend for the forthcoming financial Amortisation 423 436 3 Share of associates and joint ventures 236 258 9 year is expected to be 28.25 US cents.
tax and non-controlling interests Details of payment dates and related matters are disclosed in the Pro t before tax 4,830 4,823 directors report.
42 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Business combinations, disposals Net interest paid decreased compared with the prior year to US$651 and similar transactions million from US$743 million re ecting the reduction in net debt over The transaction with The Coca-Cola Company and Coca-Cola Sabco the course of the year, partly offset by the early redemption payment.
to form Coca-Cola Beverages Africa, which we announced in November 2014, is still to be completed, pending regulatory approvals.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment for the year was US$1,394 million 2014: US$1,401 million, and US$1,572 million In line with our strategy to focus on our core beverage operations, 2014: US$1,485 million including the purchase of intangible assets.
in August 2014 we completed the disposal of our investment in the We have continued to invest in brewing capacity and capability, Tsogo Sun hotels and gaming business, which generated a post-tax principally in Africa and Latin America, together with increased pro t on disposal of US$239 million, and in January 2015 we spend on the development of digital capability, networks and completed the disposal of our associate investment in a packaging communications.
Capital expenditure of approximately US$1,600 business in Panama, which generated a pro t of US$2 million.
million is expected in the next financial year.
Adjusted EBITDA Free cash ow improved by US$670 million to US$3,233 million, We use an adjusted EBITDA measure which comprises operating re ecting lower net interest and tax paid, as described above, higher pro t before exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation, and dividend receipts including the first dividend we have received from includes our share of MillerCoors EBITDA, in order to provide a useful our Chinese associate, and the cycling of our increased investment in indication of cash generation before capital expenditure.
Adjusted associates in the prior year, but excludes the proceeds from the sale EBITDA of US$6,677 million was in line with the prior year.
Adjusted of our Tsogo Sun investment.
Free cash ow over the last five years EBITDA margin, including our share of MillerCoors net producer is shown in the chart below.
revenue, improved by 30 bps in the year to 31.7%.
Free cash fl ow 2014 US$m 2015 US$m US$m restated 3,230 3,233 3,048 Subsidiaries EBITDA see note 2 5,690 5,720 Our share of MillerCoors EBITDA 987 936 2,563 2,488 see note 2 Adjusted EBITDA 6,677 6,656 Subsidiaries net producer revenue NPR 16,534 16,704 Our share of MillerCoors NPR 4,543 4,526 21,077 21,230 Adjusted EBITDA margin 31.7% 31.4% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Cash fl ow and investment highlights Net cash generated from operations before working capital Cost and effi ciency programme movements of US$5,680 million was in line with the prior year.
In order to drive operational ef ciencies additional to those delivered This excludes cash contributions from joint ventures but includes the in the normal course of business and under the business capability effects of cash ows from exceptional items, other than proceeds programme, we launched a cost and ef ciency programme in the from the disposal of businesses and associates.
It will expand the scope of our supply chain activities, including increasing the reach of our procurement organisation to Cash ow from working capital was an in ow of US$132 million, more than 80% of spend under management, together with changes principally as a result of the extension of key supplier payment terms, to its delivery model.
It will also provide a global business services partly offset by an increase in year end receivables compared with organisation delivering standardised finance, HR, procurement and the prior year in part due to the timing of Easter, together with the data analytics services to the groups operations, enabled by the continued utilisation of restructuring and onerous contract provisions, global template, from central locations and restructuring of in-country primarily in Australia.
Cash generated from operations increased by back of ce teams.
This programme will involve upfront restructuring 1% over the prior year, to US$5,812 million.
costs of approximately US$350 million, of which US$69 million has been incurred in the year bringing the cumulative costs to date to Tax paid in the year was down to US$1,439 million from US$1,596 US$128 million.
These costs exclude the further deployment of the million in the prior year.
As described in the tax section, the decrease global template and the running costs of the new global business was mainly a result of the tax prepayment to the Australian Tax services organisation which are embedded into business as usual Of ce in the prior year, partly offset by the tax paid in the year on the costs.
We continue to expect cumulative direct operational ef ciencies exceptional gain made on the disposal of our investment in Tsogo Sun.
and cost savings rising to approximately US$500 million per annum by the financial year ending 31 March 2018.
Savings arising from this SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 43 Strategic report Finance review continued | programme in the year and cumulatively amount to US$221 million per intangible assets, primarily brands, separately from goodwill on annum, and are ahead of expectations at this stage of the programme.
acquisitions, with intangible assets subject to amortisation and with Ef ciencies and cost savings achieved in the year were largely no amortisation of goodwill.
The goodwill and intangible assets relating delivered through our end to end, integrated supply chain, primarily in to investments in associates and joint ventures including MillerCoors manufacturing and procurement, the reach of the latter now covering are subsumed within the investment total and not separately identi ed 69% of spend under management.
This programme and related on our balance sheet.
bene ts are incremental to the cost savings and operating bene ts delivered under the business capability programme concluded in Total assets decreased to US$44,911 million from the prior years the prior year and those delivered in the normal course of business.
US$53,751 million primarily as a result of the impact of currency translation, partly offset by the pro ts earned and cash generated Balance sheet in the year.
A signi cant proportion of the non-current assets on our balance sheet re ect acquisitions since our listing on the London Stock Goodwill decreased to US$14,746 million, a reduction of US$3,751 Exchange in March 1999.
No goodwill or intangible assets are million compared with the prior year amount, mainly as a result of the recognised on the balance sheet in relation to businesses or brands impact of foreign exchange rate changes on goodwill denominated that have been developed organically or were acquired prior to 1998. in currencies other than the US dollar, together with the impairment The same policy applies to our investments in associates and joint of the goodwill in our Indian business.
Acquisitions after 1 April 1998 and prior to the IFRS transition in 2005 were accounted for in accordance Intangible assets decreased by US$1,654 million, compared with with UK GAAP, with intangible assets, such as brands, not separately the prior year amount, to US$6,878 million primarily re ecting foreign recognised but instead forming part of the goodwill on the acquisition, exchange movements and amortisation, partially offset by additions which was amortised over 20 years in most instances.
On transition mainly related to the development of digital capability, networks to IFRS in 2005, we changed our policy and have recognised acquired and communications.
Gross debt at 31 March 2015 decreased to US$11,430 million from US$16,384 million at 31 March 2014.
Gross debt comprises borrowings together with the fair value of nancing derivative assets or liabilities held to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk of borrowings.
We repaid certain of our bonds from cash ows generated from operations, which together with foreign exchange bene ts from our treasury risk management policy, reduced the level of debt.
Net debt comprising gross debt net of cash and cash equivalents decreased to US$10,465 million from US$14,303 million at 31 March 2014.
As at 31 March 2015, we held cash and cash equivalent investments of US$965 million 2014: US$2,081 million.
An analysis of net debt is provided in note 27c to the consolidated financial statements.
Our gearing presented as a ratio of net debt to equity decreased to 43.0% from 52.0% at 31 March 2014.
Total equity decreased from US$27,482 million at 31 March 2014 to US$24,355 million at 31 March 2014.
The decrease was primarily Optimising resources owing to adverse currency translation movements and dividend payments, partly offset by pro t for the year and share-based to reduce costs payment credits.
Our global procurement function is Financial structure and liquidity consolidating all SABMiller purchasing, Our strong financial structure gives us adequate resources to facilitate to better support our global integration.
our continuing business along with medium-term exibility to invest in appropriate growth opportunities and manage our balance sheet.
The function managed 69% of spend, in line with our March 2018 target of overseeing We finance our operations through cash generated by the business more than 80%.
Our global sourcing teams and a mixture of short and medium-term bank credit facilities, bank continued to align themselves with best-inloans, corporate bonds and commercial paper.
In this way, we avoid class benchmarks, to achieve our strategic over-reliance on any particular liquidity source.
We use cash in hand, priority of liberating resources to win in market cash from operations and short-term borrowings to manage liquidity.
and reduce costs and freeing our businesses to focus on consumers and customers.
44 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report The following table summarises our funding structure at 31 March 2015.
Currency, interest rate, commodity and credit risk management 2015 2014 We manage the risks from foreign exchange, interest rates, US$m US$m commodities and credit risk within a framework of policies approved Overdrafts 215 213 by the board and reviewed regularly.
Exposures are managed within Borrowings 12,276 16,783 target hedge levels and reported regularly to the treasury and audit Derivatives 1,114 663 committees.
During the year the treasury policies were subject to Finance leases 53 51 review and a number of minor revisions were approved, although the Gross debt 11,430 16,384 overall strategic approach remains the same.
Further details on the Cash and cash equivalents 965 2,081 current individual risk management policies are described in note 21 Net debt 10,465 14,303 to the consolidated financial statements.
The impact of our key risk management policies is detailed below.
Maturity of gross debt: Within one year 1,608 4,452 Currency risk Between one and two years 2,169 842 Our debt pro le by currency at 31 March 2015 after taking account Between two and five years 3,121 5,190 of derivatives is illustrated below.
Over five years 4,532 5,900 Net debt profi le The average maturity of the gross committed debt portfolio is 7.3 years 2014: 6.3 years.
US dollar 51% Other 15% During the year we repaid a number of our maturing bonds from Australian dollar 14% existing resources including: Euro 9% South African rand 7% US$10,465m COP640,000 million IPC 7.3% Ordinary Bonds on 20 May 2014: Colombian peso 4% COP561,800 million IPC 6.52% Ordinary Bonds on 20 January 2015: US$300 million 4.875% Notes due 2014 on 1 October 2014: US$1,000 million 1.85% Notes due 2015 on 15 January 2015: 1,000 million 4.5% Notes due 2015 on 20 January 2015: and PEN150 million 6.75% Notes due 2015 on 19 March 2015.
Interest rate risk We exercised our call option to redeem in full the US$850 million The weighted average interest rate for the total gross debt portfolio 6.5% Notes due 2016, with the early redemption completed on at 31 March 2015 decreased to 3.5% 2014: 3.9% primarily re ecting 8 December 2014. the repayment of some high interest rate debt during the year.
Our committed undrawn borrowing facilities increased from US$3,274 Usage of derivative instruments million at 31 March 2014 to US$3,644 million at 31 March 2015.
Our policy only allows for the use of derivative instruments to manage We have suf cient headroom to service our operating activities and the currency, commodity and interest rate risks arising from our ongoing capital investment.
Maturing debt in the next 18 months operations and nancing activities.
Our policy does not allow trading includes US$700 million bonds due in June 2015, US$300 million in financial instruments.
bonds due in June 2016 and a number of local bank facilities.
As at 31 March 2015 committed headroom including committed undrawn Currency borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents was suf cient The exchange rates to the US dollar used in the preparation of to cover all maturing facilities over the next 24 months.
We have the consolidated financial statements are detailed in note 1 to the continued to be able to access suf cient and signi cant funding consolidated financial statements.
All of the major currencies in from a number of sources and expect to renew maturing facilities which we operate depreciated against the US dollar over the year.
Accounting policies Subsequent to the financial year end, the maturity dates of the The principal accounting policies used by the group are as shown US$2,500 million committed syndicated facility and the SABMiller in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Holdings Inc US$1,000 million committed syndicated facility were extended to May 2020.
In addition, note 1 to the consolidated financial statements details the areas where a high degree of judgement has been applied in the Our credit rating from Standard and Poors was lifted from BBB selection of a policy, an assumption or estimates used.
These are to Awith a stable outlook in July 2014 and in October 2014 Moodys broadly aligned with areas of signi cant judgement which have been Investors Services changed its outlook on our Baa1 rating from stable considered by the audit committee and which are reported within to positive.
the audit committee report on pages 70 to 73.
Domenic fide Lorenzo Acting Chief Financial Of cer SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 45 Strategic report Sustainable development Our new sustainable development strategy, Prosper, is embedded in our business strategy and will enable us to secure growth that benefi ts us and local communities.
Our shared imperatives A thriving world A sociable world A resilient world Shared We want a thriving world where We want a sociable world where We want a resilient world where our opportunity incomes and quality of life our beers are developed, marketed, business, local communities and are growing sold and consumed responsibly ecosystems share uninterrupted access to safe, clean water Shared We will accelerate growth and We will endeavour to make beer We will secure shared water imperative social development through our the natural choice for the resources for our business and value chains moderate and responsible drinker local communities By 2020 Directly support more than half Aim to reach all of our beer Secure the water supplies we our target a million small enterprises to consumers with effective share with local communities is to enhance their business growth communication campaigns, through partnerships to tackle and family livelihoods and partnerships to encourage shared water risks moderate and responsible beer consumption For a full list of our 2020 Prosper targets see pages 6 and 7 of our Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015.
Through our five shared imperatives above basic services.
The decisions we make can understanding the small businesses in we aim to tackle the issues that are most help shape their opportunities and enable our value chain, and facilitating access to material for our business at a local and their growth and development.
essentials for their success: by enabling international level.
They give us global focus access to training, advice, financial services and alignment, while allowing local markets Small businesses are critical to the growth of and technology, as well as new markets, to respond to local needs.
These imperatives economies, to the prosperity of communities so small businesses can improve their are shared because we can only tackle joint and to the success of large businesses like operations and financial skills as they risks in partnership with those who also SABMiller.
We have direct buying or selling grow: and face them.
By working together with local relationships with more than 1.5 million small communities, suppliers, governments, enterprises.
The majority are family owned, collaborating with others: by joining forces consumers and beyond, we can develop with many run by women.
These businesses with organisations that share our goals, shared opportunities to the bene t of all.
often face signi cant challenges including we can deliver support more ef ciently limited access to training, business advice, and at greater scale.
For example, A thriving world financial services and markets, and we have expanded our partnership with Our businesses throughout the world unsupportive policies and regulations.
We the Inter-American Development Bank provide direct and indirect employment, have committed to support more than half a in Latin America to focus on business pay taxes, and help to sustain and develop million small businesses in our value chain to and community leadership in six markets, local economies.
Last year we generated grow and improve their livelihoods by 2020. and on measuring impact read more on US$24,299 million of economic value through page 8.
We are also working with CARE our business activities, most of which was We will achieve our goal by: International to develop metrics to measure distributed to employees, shareholders, the impact of our programmes.
aligning it with our commercial strategy: by making our support for small A fair approach to taxation Businesses are an engine of job creation, businesses integral to the way our local Our third Our Approach to Tax report is market development and economic growth.
commercial teams such as sales and published alongside this Annual Report, Yet in many communities we are part of, procurement work, we can be more sharing information on our tax payments and people especially women face the responsive to their needs: principles.
We were delighted that the prior challenges of unemployment and lack of years report was recognised in the PwC access to markets, skills, and sometimes Building Public Trust Awards as winner of the Tax Reporting in the FTSE 100 category.
46 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Further reports All our companies have a sales and marketing Find out more about our sustainable compliance committee SMCC, which ensures development performance in our that any proposed marketing materials Sustainable Development Summary comply with the POCC, and with local laws Report 2015 and our tax payments and and national self-regulatory requirements.
principles in Our Approach to Tax report.
The SMCC has the power to reject, or demand modi cations to, any materials that fail to comply.
In the year ended 31 March 2015, 66% of our employees worldwide had participated in alcohol responsibility training within the last three years and local marketing agencies had joined training on responsible marketing A clean world A productive world practices at most of our local businesses 90%.
We want a clean world where nothing We want a productive world where SABMiller is a signatory to the Beer, Wine goes to waste and emissions are land is used responsibly, food supply and Spirits Producers Commitments.
These dramatically lower is secure, biodiversity is protected align 13 global alcohol companies behind ten and brewing crops can be accessed commitments covering: responsible product at reasonable prices innovation: consumer information and We will create value through We will support responsible, marketing practices: enlisting retailers support to reduce harmful drinking: and reducing waste and carbon sustainable use of land for reducing underage drinking and drink-driving emissions brewing crops through partnerships.
Reduce the carbon footprint per litre Ensure the sourcing of our crops of beer across our value chain by measurably improves both food In the year, to improve the enforcement of legal 1 25%, including by 50% within our security and resource productivity drinking age restrictions, SABMiller undertook breweries, by 25% across our over 10,000 stakeholder engagements with packaging and by 25% across our governments, law enforcement and health refrigeration carbon footprint professionals.
We also featured responsibility messaging and a link to give consumers 1 Against a 2010 base.
access to further information, such as www.
com, on the packaging of more than 70% of our brands.
The total taxes borne and collected by concern to governments, society and SABMiller plc and its subsidiaries and our SABMiller.
We are committed to playing Read the latest progress report at share of taxes paid by our US joint venture our part in addressing the problem in www.
org during the year amounted to US$10,639 all the countries in which we operate.
These We believe that sound principles for alcohol include: excise, corporate and transactional We maintain a comprehensive set responsibility must be backed by action taxes, and taxes borne by employees.
of policies publicly available to help on the ground.
In the year we ran more than Of this total, 71% was paid in developing our employees and partners to meet 100 locally-tailored responsibility programmes countries.
The corporate tax charge for the our demanding standards on producing across our business focused on important year was US$1,273 million 2014: US$1,173 and marketing our products in a way that social issues such as road safety, responsible million, and our effective tax rate was encourages responsible consumption.
retail practices and preventing underage 26.0% 2014: 26.0%.
This year we updated our policy on consumption of alcohol.
We collaborate commercial communication POCC to with local partners governments, nonA sociable world include comprehensive digital guidelines governmental organisations, civil society Beer brings people together.
It plays a part and ensure leading standards for both our groups, and public bodies such as the in celebrating memorable moments and is digital and traditional marketing practices.
police as we believe that responsibility enjoyed in different ways by an amazing We seek to establish a leadership position programmes run in partnership with other diversity of communities all around the in digital marketing by imposing age organisations are more robust and credible, world.
However, the harmful consumption af rmation mechanisms on all of our can engage more people, and are more of alcohol remains an issue of signi cant social media engagement.
likely to achieve the desired change.
Mackay Awards The Mackay Awards, launched in the year to honour our late Chairman Graham Mackay, celebrate and share the best Prosper initiatives and innovations across the business.
With five award categories, aligned to our shared imperatives, entries have to demonstrate both positive social and business impact.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 47 Strategic report Sustainable development continued | A resilient world CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy Water stress is holding back prosperity and used on site kgCO2e hl lager growth.
The supply of readily available fresh 14.2 13.8 water is nite and in many watersheds quality 12.4 is declining.
Economic growth, driven largely 11.1 10.3 by the middle class, combined with changing 2 9.4 climatic conditions will mean the number of people living in river basins under severe water stress will more than double between 2000 and 2050 and reach 3.9 billion people, 1 or 43% of the global population.
We surpassed this target this year, achieving 2 an average water ef ciency ratio of 3.3 hl hl.
2 In absolute terms, we used 592 million hl Reducing brewery emissions is the first of water to produce our lager 2014: step, but production accounts for just a fifth Partnering to tackle 621 million hl.
of our total carbon footprint.
So we have added additional focus on the key stages shared water risk of the value chain and set a target to reduce 2 our total carbon footprint by 25% by 2020, In South Africa, we have taken a lead role 3.3hl including a 25% reduction in both packaging in the ambitious public-private Strategic water to produce 1 hl lager, and refrigeration.
Water Partners Network, which is part beating our target of 3.5 hl hl of the Water Resources Group WRG.
Returnable bottles and kegs are much In collaboration with others, we created more resource-ef cient and lower-emission a platform for the government and throughout their lifecycle than cans, PET private sector to work together to address Many of our breweries are in areas of water bottles or non-returnable glass bottles.
53% a number of pressing water resource risk.
Our bespoke water risk assessment of our beer was sold in returnable bottles and challenges.
These include taking practical process helps us to better understand the kegs 2014: 49%.
We work with suppliers to action to tackle water use ef ciency nature and extent of local water risk, giving reduce the weight and environmental impact and infrastructure challenges.
Given the us a detailed, watershed-level, site-by-site of all packaging in the relevant market.
success of this approach, we funded picture of our water exposure.
Using these a WRG partnership in Tanzania and are data our breweries are able to identify and During the year we set a target to purchase a leading WRG partner in India.
prioritise risks and develop and implement 100% HFC-free fridges by 2020, and we mitigation action plans.
The process is now introduced a new refrigeration policy that Read more at complete in 46 breweries across 21 countries, all new fridges must be equipped with energy 2 www.
com keeptapsrunning covering 63.8% of lager production volumes.
management devices and LED lights, where available.
Tackling the root causes of water stress will require all sectors of society to work About 99% of spent grain from our breweries collaboratively and at scale.
We have been is reused by farmers for animal feed or for Water to lager ratio hl water hl lager investing in partnerships to secure water renewable energy, creating value as well as for our business growth and for the water preventing waste from being diverted to 4.3 4.2 users around us see case study, top left.
During the year our breweries reused 4.0 3 3.7 or recycled 89.6% of their general waste.
3.5 2 3.3 A clean world Climate change is a threat to local SABMiller is an A list performer in the CDPs communities and to our business.
Our own Carbon Performance Leaders Index.
Read our brewery emissions and the packaging and CDP reports at www.
net trade refrigeration of our beer all have a signi cant carbon footprint.
A productive world Today around a billion people already go In the year ended 31 March 2015 fossil fuel hungry, and demand for food is growing.
Our 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 emissions per hl of lager produced fell by business depends on the same, increasingly 9%, with total CO2e emissions of 1.7 million scarce land and water resources that local 2 tonnes 2014: 1.8 million tonnes, of which communities use for food crops.
Our aim is 0.8 million tonnes were generated from our that, by 2020, the way we source measurably direct use of fuels such as natural gas, coal improves both food security and resource and oil scope one and 0.9 million tonnes productivity for all the crops we buy.
were generated indirectly from the production of electricity and steam we purchase scope two.
48 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report We source locally where practical, though and position papers, as well as guidelines, crops such as malting barley are niche training, and tools for building capability and and can be dif cult to grow, making imports sharing best practice globally.
Individual necessary in some markets.
operations are ultimately held accountable for their own performance, which often forms To effectively support improvements in part of our senior managers performance malting barley, our key crop, we need to objectives and remuneration.
look beyond our own needs to the wider farming system it forms part of.
This helps Our SD performance is measured through Achieving sustainable us understand the role we can play in our bespoke management system, the sugarcane standards enabling farmers to reduce inputs such as Sustainability Assessment Matrix SAM nitrogen-based fertilisers, as well as outputs see case study, right and is overseen by such as greenhouse gas emissions.
Water the group corporate accountability and In November Azunosa, our sugarcane management is critical where barley is risk assurance committee CARAC, a farming operation in Honduras, became the irrigated in water-stressed areas.
committee of the SABMiller plc board.
first producer in Central America to achieve The CARAC is chaired by Dambisa Moyo, Bonsucro certi cation, demonstrating that While malting barley remains our largest a non-executive director of SABMiller plc sustainable practices are viable for relatively crop, cassava, maize, rice and sorghum see pages 52 and 53 for a full list of smaller sugar operations in developing are increasingly important for producing members.
Each region also has its own countries.
Our experience at Azunosa places affordable beers that maximise opportunities CARAC, chaired by the regional managing us in a strong position to engage more for local farmers.
Creating markets for director, which meets twice a year to effectively with other suppliers.
In South Africa, sorghum and cassava by using them as review local SD performance and discuss we are supporting the locally developed brewing materials gives small-scale emerging issues.
SusFarms initiative to evolve into a full system subsistence farmers an incentive to increase for verifying good practice.
production, so they can sell the surplus and Transparency and ethics boost their income and food security.
Buying We believe that high standards of ethical Read more at locally also enables us to save costs and behaviour are fundamental to our long-term www.
com bonsucro support local farmers in regions unsuitable future.
We adopt a zero tolerance approach for growing malting barley.
to bribery and corruption and we are a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Aligning sustainable development committing ourselves to universally accepted with business strategy principles in the areas of human rights, labour, All parts of the business are responsible for environment and anti-corruption.
This year, we focused on embedding Prosper in the business and making it relevant Re ecting the priority we give to transparency, for all employees.
Our country managing we launched in the year a new webpage directors used town hall meetings to launch providing additional information about our Prosper in 29 markets, with external anti-corruption framework.
This resource stakeholder events in 18. includes links to some of the key documents setting out our framework, including our Our new Prosper Forum ensures the code of business conduct and ethics and Sustainability Assessment resources and capability are in place to deliver the anti-bribery policy which supplements Matrix SAM our Prosper targets, approve policies, lead it, and describes our range of supporting co-ordinated activities and manage potential policies, procedures and guidance.
It is chaired by SABMillers General Our bespoke management system, the Counsel and Corporate Affairs Director We have also reviewed our whistleblowing Sustainability Assessment Matrix SAM and attended by regional corporate affairs facilities over the course of the year, which was updated this year to re ect Prosper.
directors and senior leaders from each provide all employees the opportunity to SAM KPIs are based on measurable function, such as marketing and sales, make con dential disclosures about outputs such as water ef ciency, carbon supply chain, human resources and legal.
emissions or employee diversity to assess performance towards our 2020 targets.
The sustainable development SD way is Read more at at the heart of our approach to SD, providing www.
com anti-corruption SAM also assesses operations against a consistent framework and focusing global core standards for each of our five all of our operations efforts and resource shared imperatives.
In certain areas new priorities.
It is supported by a suite of policies core standards represent a recalibration of our expectations in terms of overall SD performance.
All our businesses are required to meet these standards which, in many countries, far exceed local 1 3 OECD Global Environmental Outlook to 2050.
During the year we changed the way we measure organic regulatory requirements.
waste to measure dry-matter equivalent, which enables us 2 Information for the year ended 31 March 2015 has been to understand the actual mass of waste material that could subject to limited assurance by  Visit our SAM portal for more detailed otherwise be hidden by the moisture it absorbs during the LLP.
For further details of the assurance provided see the brewing process.
On a like-for-like basis, 96.0% of waste information on sustainability performance independent assurance report on pages 34 and 35 of was reused or recycled 2014: 95.6%.
the Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015. by country at www.
com sam SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 49
