Key performance indicators KPIs Measuring our progress Volume wet ktes Underlying EBITDA m Underlying profit Underlying earnings before tax m per share pence share 1,251 129.6 94.6 95.3 21.5 1,235 125.0 20.9 20.7 1,191 124.0 90.1 1,174 1,182 117.2 118.0 86.0 19.5 82.2 18.0 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Definition Definition Definition Definition Underlying profit before tax.
Volume of our products sold in Underlying earnings before Basic underlying earnings per thousands of tonnes.
The volume interest, tax, depreciation, share before special items.
is based on wet volumes i. e. the amortisation and special items.
Comment volumes including water content.
Record year for underlying Comment profit before tax, not Comment 10% growth in EPS in the year withstanding high employer Comment Record year for EBITDA EPS now above 2012 levels bonus payments Good growth in overall volumes Innovation, capacity expansion More work needed to drive Increases due to demand in and cost control critical to consistent annual EPS growth Asia andRest of World continuing improvement More work to do in Europe and NorthAmerica Revenue from Over three day lost time Energy consumption new products % accident rate LTA per tonne GJ per tonne 18 0.433 2.63 2.63 2.62 2.59 2.56 16 12 0.226 0.226 0.198 0.157 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Definition Definition Definition Percentage of revenue in the year Rate of injuries that result in an Energy GJ including gas, that can be attributed to new absence from work of more than electricity, steam and fuel oil used products launched in the last 5 three days, divided by total at each of our plants divided by the years.
number of hours worked per number of tonnes ofproduct made.
annum, multiplied by 100,000 The energy excludes transport of hours.
goods to and from site and the Comment movement of these vehicles on site, Continued success in our but internal transport on site is strategy toincrease revenue Comment included.
contribution from new products Record year for LTA rate Our target is for 20% of our Our rate is now lower than revenue tocome from new average of UK Chemical Comment products Industries Association CIA Benchmarking and operational member companies improvements in Asia have Committed to zero accident supported improvement rate European energy usage has increased in 2015 due to product mix 2016 will focus on energy savings inEurope 28 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Risk management Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Risk objectives Werankrisks by combining their Operational risks which, if not The Board is responsible for determining economic, operational or environmental successfully managed, would threaten the nature and extent of the risks it is impact and the likelihood that they may our viability.
These relate to our ability to willing to take in delivering Synthomers occur.
We do this both before and after operate a sustainable and safe business.
Synthomer undertakes we identify the controls we have in place Financial risks relating to the funding risk management to improve the to mitigate each risk.
Those risks that and fiscal security of the Group.
resilience, performance, sustainability pose the greatest threat to our Business Compliance risks which could affect andsuccess of its business, whilst in turn and score the highest, pre-mitigation, are our compliance with regulations and facilitating decisions and providing useful identified as key risks.
All our people are law, and or our licence to operate information to shareholders.
common framework, we are able to view Risk strategy risk from both a top-down and bottom-up The table on pages 30 to 33 shows The Board is responsible for creating perspective and so ensure it is thekeyrisks identified in 2015.
Our Board theframework for the Groups risk considered and managed at every level and management carry out a robust management to operate effectively.
Our safety, health, and assessment of these principle risks risk management framework includes risk environmental SHE risks are reviewed including those that would impact our assessment, response, communication and considered monthly by business model, future performance, and governance.
The Board is also our Executive committee.
Wedo, of course, responsible for ensuring that appropriate face other risks anduncertainties, but and proportionate resources are allocated Our key risks these have been assessed as lower risk, to risk management activities.
Risks affect every area of our business.
and soare not included here, or are Their nature and potential impact changes beyond the direct control of the Group.
All Our risk management framework constantly but through our regular reviews risks current andemerging are reviewed We have a structured risk management we identify risks that could impact our regularly by the Board and the Executive framework throughout the Group.
This strategy and allow us to set up controls to Committee: if their possible impact or includes a standard set of risk categories, mitigate their effects.
We categorise our likelihood increases, they will bereclassified generic risk descriptions and a scoring risks into the following areas: as a key risk.
Our risk management methodology, together with a process programme can only provide reasonable, toanalyse and manage risk.
All our Strategic risks that could prevent us not absolute, assurance that key risks are locations use this framework to identify from achieving our strategic objectives.
and document their specific risks.
Our risk management framework Governance Third line of defence Risk management framework Risks assessments external Second line of defence Risk assessments internal Risk we take Policies and methodologies Group policies How we operate Respect for control Operating requirements First line of defence Roles and responsibilities, supervision, procedures, systems and controls Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 29 Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if certain risks are taken and managed effectively.
We have listed below the key risks that may affect our business, although there are other risks that may occur and impact the Groups performance Strategic risk Strategic risks Strategy for risk management Conditions in the global economy, economic fluctuations in The Group maintains a balanced portfolio of products serving customer industries and volatility and cyclicality of the global awide range of end markets around the globe.
Segment chemicals and polymers markets may adversely affect the performance at business unit level is closely monitored and results of the Group.
corrective actions are taken as necessary.
The markets in which the Group operates are highly The Group continues to invest in existing and new products competitive and the Group may lose market share to other through R&D.
producers of speciality chemicals or to other products that can be substituted for the products of the Group.
The Group continues to invest in new facilities to allow the Group to maintain its key market positions.
All sites operate quality management systems, such as ISO, toensure products meet customers agreedstandards.
The Groups strategic plan involves significant change Strategic projects are managed in a structured framework management, including the identification and conversion of which includes formal identification of risks.
The Executive acquisition targets to enhance market positions and provide Committee has extensive experience of change management new technologies.
and making use of external specialist advice as required.
The ability of the Group to compete ishighly dependent on The Group continues to invest in existing and new its ability to develop technological innovations, to introduce technologiesthrough R&D.
As part of the Groups strategic new products and to protect its intellectual property, trade planning process it identifies and converts acquisition secrets and know-how.
targetstoenhance its market positions and provide newtechnologies.
The Group protects its intellectual property through the use ofpatents.
The ongoing success of the Group is dependent on attracting The Group offers competitive compensation packages with and retaining high quality senior management and staff who annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements for key can effectively manage the Groups operations.
Appropriate notice periods and non-compete clauses are used to mitigate short-term risk for key positions.
TheGroup maintains a succession plan for key positions.
As a substantial multi-national enterprise, the Group could The Group maintains controls both to detect and prevent suffer losses of intellectual property and other assets through theftand fraud as appropriate to the nature of the risk.
theft or fraud which could be significant.
30 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Operational risk Operational risks Strategy for risk management The failure of the Group to procure key raw materials may Sourcing strategies are in place Group-wide to access lead to production interruptions, and volatility in the prices of multiplesources for keyraw materials and the Group works such raw materials and energy prices may adversely affect closely with key suppliers to ensure availability.
The Group the profitability of the Group and its working capital position.
looks to identify alternative raw materials where possible.
The Group actively manages margins andrecovers input cost increases fromcustomers.
The manufacture, storage and transportation ofchemicals Robust maintenance programmes are undertaken in isinherently dangerous and any incidents relating to the ordertoensure that our facilities meet Group and local hazards which the Group faces may adversely impact its legalrequirements.
financial condition, results of operations and reputation.
Synthomer operates a central internal audit function dedicated to SHE issues and programmes for continuous improvement acrossall major SHE areas Group-wide.
The failure or loss of a key production asset, process, Crisis management procedures are in place for all sites.
information or communication system, whether temporarily Theseare reviewed and updated regularly.
orpermanently could occur, directly or otherwise, through The Group invests in its infrastructure to ensure appropriate natural disasters, epidemic, industrial action, sabotage or levels of resilience in the event of temporary failures in IT thelike, and would have an adverse impact on operations.
Backups and disaster recovery plans are in place forcritical systems and processes.
