Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Chief Financial Officers review Our financial performance The increased commercial investments we began to make in the prior year have translated into better performance with revenue trends improving in each of the last three quarters.
My priorities When I became CFO last April, I highlighted three clear priorities which I believe will have a significant impact on our future financial performance: the execution of Project Spring according to the financial plan: the integration of acquisitions, most notably KDG and Ono: and a continued focus on cost efficiency.
On all three, we are on track to deliver, but there is still much more to do.
Our results are reviewed in more detail on pages 40 to 48 of this report, but overall I am satisfied that we have made important progress in stabilising the financial performance of the business.
Project Spring execution Our 19 billion, two-year investment programme began in earnest early in 2014.
From both a logistical and financial perspective, we believe this is the biggest and most intensive programme ever undertaken by any telecoms operator.
Vittorio has covered many aspects of the execution in his review on page 16, demonstrating the clear progress we have made to date.
I am satisfied overall with deployment against plan.
We are a little ahead on our network rollout in AMAP, particularly India, and we are in line in Europe, with a couple of exceptions.
Our 4G build and network modernisation in the UK is slightly behind schedule, hampered by the complexity of site access and planning restrictions.
In Italy, our fibre to the cabinet FTTC roll-out started late, as a result of negotiations with other operators in the market which were eventually aborted.
However, we are now making very rapid progress.
Capital spend is on target, with total capex for the year of 9.2 billion up 46% year-onyear.
Cash flow generation was, as expected, depressed by the level of spending.
I remain very confident that, once Project Spring is completed, we will return to a more normal level of capital intensity and generate strong and growing cash flows.
38 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Acquisition integration Cost efficiency Performance against 2015 financial year guidance We commenced integration of KDG in April Progress on costs was good this year, with 2014 and of Ono in August 2014.
In total operating costs in Europe flat in organic terms, Based on guidance foreign exchange rates, we expect to generate combined annual despite the cost growth driven by the Project our EBITDA was 11.7 billion, within our cost and capex synergies of approximately Spring network roll-out.
Savings came from guidance range of 11.3 billion to 11.9 billion 540 million in the 2018 financial year, mainly further development of our shared services set in May 2014, and our range of 11.6 billion from migrating fixed and mobile customers platform, increased centralised procurement, to 11.9 billion set in November 2014.
On the onto our own infrastructure and combining headcount reductions and other efficiencies.
same basis our free cash flow was 1.3 billion, backhaul and core networks.
in line with our guidance of positive free Looking ahead, for a relatively lean cash flow.
In terms of standalone business performance, organisation such as Vodafone, a pure focus KDG has continued to grow strongly and on cost cutting can be an over-simplistic Looking ahead even showed some acceleration through the approach that could compromise the quality The key goals for the year ahead are to build year, supported by firm pricing and improved of service we provide to customers, which on the improving commercial execution subscriber growth.
Onos performance has would clearly be self-defeating.
evident last year, and to complete the been a little below expectations, with ARPU Instead, we are looking at cost in two ways second half of the Project Spring programme coming under more pressure than anticipated which can make a significant long term as successfully as the first half.
We expect as a result of aggressive pricing at the premium difference to our overall efficiency.
First, we are EBITDA to be in the range of 11.5 billion end of the market.
focusing on productivity improvements 1 to 12.0 billion, with further tight control The teams have made solid progress on all doing the same things better at a lower cost, on costs and good progress on the integration aspects of integration.
In Germany, we have by developing cross-functional programmes of our cable acquisitions.
We expect free cash started to connect Vodafone base station sites and benchmarking more forensically between 1 flow to be positive even after the second to KDG fibre backhaul, and have migrated different parts of the business.
In some cases, year of elevated Project Spring capex, giving 77,000 customers to date off our DSL platform this will require us to invest more in the short us confidence that we will return to a dividend on which we pay high monthly fees onto term for example, in new, standardised that is comfortably covered by free cash flow KDGs cable infrastructure.
70% of IP traffic has IT systems to deliver transformational when capex returns to more normal levels now been combined, and we have launched efficiencies longer term.
our combined fixed mobile proposition, All Second, we are embedding a stronger in One.
cost-conscious culture at an individual level In Spain, we have so far connected over throughout the business, including personal 500 mobile base station sites to Onos fibre objectives on efficiency targets for senior Nick Read to save on backhaul costs.
We also signed management incentives.
Both of these Chief Financial Officer an agreement with Telefnica, the host elements will be underpinned by more of Onos MVNO, to accelerate the migration granular and consistent cost and productivity of traffic to our own network.
We are launching reporting across markets and functions.
a truly integrated, single-billed, fixed mobile We have instigated a programme called Fit proposition this summer.
for Growth to encompass both of these objectives, and to develop an organisation with improved competitiveness and agility for the long term.
EBITDA billion Free cash flow and billion ordinary dividends paid 15 6 5.7 5.1 4.8 11.9 11.5 11.1 Note: 4.4 10 4 1 Guidance for the 2016 financial year is based on our current assessment of the global macroeconomic 2.9 outlook and assumes foreign exchange rates of 1:1.37, 5 2 1:INR95.2, 1:ZAR18.1.
It excludes the impact of licences and spectrum purchases, material one-off tax-related 1.1 payments, restructuring costs and any fundamental 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 structural changes to the eurozone.
It also assumes 39 Free cash ow Dividend no material change to the current structure of the Group.
