John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 FINANCIAL RESOURCES The portfolio valuation is reconciled to the Group Balance Sheet as follows: At 31 December 2015, the Group had a committed corporate banking facility and associated ancillary facilities of 350.0 million 31 December 31 December expiring in March 2020 31 December 2014 353.9 million.
2015 2014 million million Of these facilities, 175.7 million was undrawn at 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 109.0 million.
Net available Portfolio valuation 841.4 772.0 financial resources at 31 December 2015 were 180.1 million Value of other investments not included 31 December 2014 127.3 million.
in portfolio valuation 0.5 0.3 Analysis of Group financial resources recourse Other assets and liabilities within recourse 1 group investment entity subsidiaries 123.4 85.9 31 December 31 December Investments held at FVTPL on the 2015 2014 million million Group Balance Sheet 965.3 858.2 Committed corporate banking facilities 350.0 353.9 1 Include cash and cash equivalents of 128.3 million 31 December 2014 78.5 million, of which 123.9 million 31 December 2014 60.5 million is held to collateralise future Letters of credit issued 154.2 243.8 investment commitments, and trade and other receivables less trade and other payables.
Other guarantees and commitments 1.1 1.1 Short term cash borrowings 19.0 Included in other assets and liabilities within recourse group Net facility utilisation 174.3 244.9 investment entity subsidiaries at 31 December 2014 was a working capital advance of 7.8 million to a joint venture in Facility headroom 175.7 109.0 anticipation of a potential UK PPP project.
While this project may still go ahead, a decision was taken to provide in full against the 1 Cash and bank deposits 5.5 19.5 recoverability of this advance as a result of prolonged delays in Less unavailable cash 1.1 1.2 reaching the projects financial close.
Net available financial resources 180.1 127.3 The combined accounting deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical schemes at 31 December 1 Cash and bank deposits exclude cash collateral balances.
The Group operates two defined benefit schemes in the UK Cash and bank deposits are included in the pro forma financial JLPF and the John Laing Pension Plan the Plan.
Both schemes information in the Group Balance Sheet within the following lines: are closed to new members and future accrual.
Within the combined accounting deficit of 46.2 million, the 31 December 31 December pension deficit in JLPF was 38.9 million, based on a discount 2015 2014 million million rate of 3.75%.
The amount of the deficit is dependent on key assumptions, principally: inflation: the discount rate used: and Amounts in fair valued entities included the life expectancy of members.
The discount rate used, as within investments at fair value through prescribed by IAS 19, is based on the yields from high quality profit or loss 4.4 17.3 corporate bonds.
The sensitivity of JLPFs pension liabilities to Amounts in consolidated entities shown changes in key assumptions is illustrated in note 19 to the as cash and cash equivalents 1.1 2.1 financial statements.
Amounts in discontinued operations 0.1 In December 2013, a schedule of contributions was agreed Total cash and bank deposits 5.5 19.5 with the JLPF trustee over a period of ten years, comprising annual contributions of 26.1 million, increasing by 3.55% Letters of credit issued from the committed corporate banking annually, payable each March, starting from March 2014. facilities and cash collateral together represent future cash In line with this schedule, the Company made a cash contribution investment by the Group into primary projects.
to JLPF in March 2015 of 27.0 million 2014 26.1 million.
As part of the IPO process in February 2015 the Group also made 31 December 31 December a special contribution to JLPF satisfied by the transfer of assets, 2015 2014 including cash, valued at 100 million and agreed a reduction million million in contributions payable in March 2016 and March 2017.
The next triennial actuarial valuation of JLPF is due as at Letters of credit issued see below 154.2 243.8 31 March 2016.
The valuation will reflect market movements Cash collateral see below 123.9 60.5 since 31 December 2015.
Future cash investment into projects 278.1 304.3 During 2015, the Group has increased its use of cash collateral in order to make efficient use of cash balances.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 30 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED The table below shows the letters of credit issued from the committed corporate banking facilities at 31 December 2015 analysed by investment and the date when cash is expected to be invested into the underlying project, at which point the letter of credit would reduce or expire: Letter of credit issued Expected date of Project million cash investment Speyside Biomass, UK 8.0 February 2016 to June 2016 IEP Phase 1, UK 10.0 July 2016 A15, Netherlands 11.7 July 2016 Croydon & Lewisham SL, UK 4.3 October 2016 New Generation Rollingstock, Australia 20.4 December 2016 to October 2017 Cramlington Biomass, UK 27.0 December 2017 IEP Phase 2, UK 72.8 October 2018 Total 154.2 The table below shows cash collateral balances at 31 December 2015 analysed by investment and the date when the cash is expected to be invested into the underlying project: Cash collateral amount Expected date of Project million cash investment IEP Phase 1, UK 58.7 July 2016 New Perth Stadium, Australia 8.7 January 2016 to December 2017 Sydney Light Rail, Australia 39.8 September 2016 to November 2016 I-77 Managed Lanes, US 16.7 November 2017 to November 2018 Total 123.9 The cash collateral in relation to the I-77 Managed Lanes project of 1.6 million from foreign exchange hedges held by the Group at backs a letter of credit issued under an uncommitted cash 31 December 2015 of part of its Euro-denominated investments collateralised facility.
97.4 million and part of its New Zealand dollar-denominated investment 8.9 million.
Net gains of 2.7 million on other Cash collateral is included within investments at fair value hedges held by the Group against cash collateral balances in through profit or loss in the Group Balance Sheet.
foreign currencies offset foreign exchange translation losses of 4.5 million on those balances.
At 31 December 2014, cash collateral balances of 60.5 million included 39.7 million relating to the East West Link project.
The Group may apply an appropriate hedge to a specific currency Letters of credit issued at 31 December 2014 included a letter of transaction exposure, which could include borrowing in that credit for 21.0 million relating to the East West Link project.
Both currency or entering into forward foreign exchange contracts.
the letter of credit and the cash collateral were returned in June An analysis of the portfolio value by currency is set out in the 2015 as part of the resolution of this project, which was cancelled.
The Group has tended not to be a cash borrower at the corporate Letters of credit in issue at 31 December 2015 of 154.2 million level for significant periods of time and has not, therefore, 31 December 2014 243.8 million are analysed by currency generally sought to hedge its exposure to interest rate movements.
as follows: However, there are significant non-recourse borrowings within the project companies in which the Group invests.
The interest 31 December 31 December rate exposure on the debt of such project companies is, in 2015 2014 Letters of credit by currency million million almost all circumstances, fixed on financial close, through the issue of either a long-dated bond or fixed rate debt, or through Sterling 122.1 162.0 the fixing of floating rate bank debt via interest rate swaps.
Euro 11.7 12.5 Given this, the impact on the Groups returns from investments US dollar 15.7 in project companies of changes in interest rates on project Australian dollar 20.4 53.6 borrowings is minimal.
There is an impact from changes in 154.2 243.8 interest rates on the investment income from monies held on deposit both at Group level and within project companies but such an effect has not been, and is unlikely to be, significant in the context of the Group Income Statement.
GOING CONCERN The Group regularly reviews the sensitivity of its balance sheet to The Group has a committed corporate banking facility until changes in exchange rates relative to Sterling and to the timing March 2020 and has sufficient resources available to meet its and amount of forecast foreign currency denominated cash flows.
committed capital requirements, investments and operating costs As set out in the Portfolio Valuation section, the Groups portfolio for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Group has adopted comprises investments denominated in Sterling, Euro, and the going concern basis in the preparation of its pro forma Australian, US and New Zealand Dollars.
As a result of foreign financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. exchange movements in the year ended 31 December 2015, primarily in the Euro, there was a negative fair value movement of 9.2 million in the portfolio valuation between 31 December 2014 Patrick OD Bourke and 31 December 2015.
This negative impact was partly offset GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR by net gains, both realised and unrealised, included within net gain on investments at FVTPL in the Group Income Statement, John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code The Directors assessment has been undertaken using a the Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group detailed financial model, which the Group uses consistently over a three year period to 31 December 2018, taking into account for forecasting purposes and to monitor compliance with the the Groups current position and the principal risks set out on covenants in its corporate banking facilities.
The assessment carried out supports the Directors this model is reviewed at monthly treasury meetings and by statements both on viability, as set out below, and also in respect the Groups Executive Committee, Audit Committee and Board.
of going concern, as set out in the Financial Review section.
Where appropriate, the model has been subjected to robust sensitivity analysis to stress test the resilience of the Groups The Directors selected a period of three years for their assessment forecasts to severe but plausible scenarios.
These include a because this is the longest timescale over which the Group scenario under which the Group is unable to make further usually has visibility over the future investment opportunities investment realisations over an extended time period and which make up its pipeline.
It is also the key period of focus in accordingly materially reduces new investment activity as the Groups budget and planning process which is updated each well as costs.
year and looks forward up to four years.
The Company has a strong risk management culture, supported The particular factors and or assumptions the Directors by a Risk Committee and an internal audit function, which helps considered in making their assessment were as follows: to ensure that key risks to the business are identified, assessed and monitored appropriately.
The Group makes primarily long-term investments which are not publicly traded.
The minimum holding period for an Based on the above assessment, the Directors have formed a investment is likely to extend beyond the construction time reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue for the underlying asset which for a PPP asset may be as its operations and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the long as 5-6 years, and some assets may be held to maturity: next three years from 31 December 2015.
New investments in greeneld projects are funded through a combination of cash ow from existing assets, the Groups corporate banking facilities and realisations of investments in operational projects.
Realisations are dependent on there being continuing demand in a currently active secondary market: Availability of debt finance continues at Group level through the corporate banking facilities and at project level through non-recourse project finance facilities specic to each project: The Group is exposed to potential increases in pension cash contributions as well as volatility in the JLPF pension deficit reported as part of NAV, principally because of movements in the main risks discount rate, ination rate and life expectancy which impact the value of pension liabilities.
The next triennial actuarial valuation of JLPF is due as at 31 March 2016: and The value of the Groups investment portfolio is dependent on a number of key risks including: discount rates derived from the secondary market: macro-economic factors such as exchange rates, taxation rates, ination and deposit rates: the construction stage and operational performance of underlying assets: volumes where project revenue is linked to project usage : and forward energy prices and energy yields.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 32 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The effective management of risks within the Group is essential In addition, a Risk Committee, comprising senior members of to the successful delivery of the Groups objectives.
The Board is management and chaired by the Group Finance Director, assists responsible for ensuring that risks are identified and appropriately the Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee in managed across the Group and has delegated to the Audit formulating and enforcing the Groups risk management policy.
Committee responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the The Directors confirm that they have carried out i a review of Groups internal controls, including the systems established to the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal identify, assess, manage and monitor risks.
control systems and ii a robust assessment of the principal The principal internal controls that operated throughout 2015 risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its and up to the date of this Annual Report include: business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
No material weaknesses were identified from the review of the an organisational structure which provides adequate Groups risk management and internal control systems.
The segregation of responsibilities, clearly dened lines of Group risk register is reviewed at every meeting of the Audit accountability, delegated authority to trained and experienced Committee and Risk Committee and every six months by the staff and extensive reporting: Board.
clear business objectives aligned with the Groups risk appetite: The above controls and procedures are underpinned by a culture risk reporting, including identication of risks through of openness of communication between operational and executive management.
All investment decisions are scrutinised in detail Group-wide risk registers, that is embedded in the regular management reporting of business units and is by the Investment Committee and, if outside the Investment Committees terms of reference, also by the Board.
communicated to the Board: and The Directors assessment of the principal risks applying to the an independent internal audit function, which reports to the Group is set out below, including the way in which risks are linked Audit Committee.
The external auditor also reports to the to the three strategic objectives set out in the Chief Executive Audit Committee on the effectiveness of controls.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Directors, or which they currently consider not to be material, may also have an adverse effect on the Group: Link to Change in strategic risk since objectives 31 December Risk note Mitigation 2014 Governmental policy Changes to legislation or public policy in the jurisdictions 1, 2, 3 The Board limits its exposure to any single jurisdiction.
in which the Group operates or may wish to operate Thorough due diligence is carried out in order to assess a No change could negatively impact the volume of potential specific countrys risk for example economic and political opportunities available to the Group and the returns stability, tax policy and local practices before any investment from existing opportunities.
The use of PPP programmes by governmental entities Where possible the Group seeks specific contractual may be delayed or may decrease thereby limiting protection from changes in government policy and law for opportunities for private sector infrastructure investors the projects it invests in.
General change of law is considered in the future, or be structured such that returns to to be a normal business risk.
During the bidding process for private sector infrastructure investors are reduced.
a project, the Group takes a view on an appropriate level of Governmental entities may in the future seek to terminate return to cover the risk of non-discriminatory changes in law.
or renegotiate the terms applying to existing projects During the bidding process for a project, the Group assesses for example to introduce new policies or legislation the sensitivity of the projects forecast returns to changes in that result in higher tax obligations on existing PPP or factors such as tax rates and or, for renewable energy renewable energy projects or otherwise affect existing projects, governmental support mechanisms.
The Group targets jurisdictions which have a track record Changes to legislation or public policy relating to of support for renewable energy investments and which renewable energy could negatively impact the economic continue to demonstrate such support.
returns on the Groups investments in renewable energy Through its track record of 117 investment commitments, projects, which would adversely affect the demand for the Group has developed significant expertise in compliance and attractiveness of such projects.
Compliance with the public tender regulations which apply to PPP projects is complex and the outcomes may be subject to third party challenge and reversed.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Link to Change in strategic risk since objectives 31 December Risk note Mitigation 2014 Macroeconomic factors Inflation, interest rates and foreign exchange all potentially 1, 2, 3 Factors which have the potential to impact adversely impact the return generated from an investment, to the the underlying cash flows of an investment are hedged Increased extent such factors cannot be hedged.
wherever possible at a project level and sensitivities are considered during the investment approval process.
Weakness in factors which affect energy prices, such as the oil price, could negatively impact the economic returns Systemic risks, such as potential deflation, or on the Groups investments in renewable energy.
appreciation depreciation of Sterling versus the currency in which an investment is made, are assessed in the context Weakness in the political and economic climate in a of the portfolio as a whole.
particular jurisdiction could impact the value of, or the return generated from, any or all of the Groups investments The Group seeks to reduce the extent to which its located in that jurisdiction.
renewable energy investments are exposed to energy prices through government support mechanisms and or off take arrangements.
The Group monitors closely the level of investments it has exposed to foreign currencies, including regularly testing the sensitivity of the financial covenants in its corporate banking facilities to a significant change in the value of individual currencies.
Where possible, specific clauses relating to potential currency change are incorporated in project documentation.
Liquidity in the secondary market Weakness in the secondary markets for investments in 1, 2, 3 Projects are appraised on a number of bases, in particular PPP or renewable energy, for example as the result of a being held to maturity.
Projects are also carefully No change lack of economic growth in relevant markets, regulatory structured so that they are capable of being divested, reform in the banking sector, liquidity in financial markets, if appropriate, before maturity.
changes in interest rates and project finance market Over recent years, the secondary markets for both PPP and conditions, and the recent difficulties in parts of the renewable energy investments have grown.
In particular, Eurozone, may affect the Groups ability to realise full several new environmental funds have been launched.
While JLIF and JLEN are natural buyers of the Groups The secondary market for investments in renewable PPP and renewable energy investments respectively, energy projects may be affected by, inter alia, changes the size and breadth of secondary markets provide the in energy prices, in governmental policy, in the value Group with confidence that it can sell investments to of governmental support mechanisms and in project other purchasers.
The ability of JLIF and JLEN to finance further investments may have an impact on both the Groups ability to sell investments in PPP and renewable energy projects and on the Groups asset management business more generally.
Financial resources Any shortfall in the financial resources that are available 1, 3 In February 2015, the Group entered into corporate banking to the Group to satisfy its financial obligations may facilities which mature in March 2020.
Available headroom Decreased make it necessary for the Group to constrain its is carefully monitored and compliance with the financial business development, refinance its outstanding covenants and other terms of this facility is closely obligations, forego investment opportunities and or observed.
The Group also monitors its working capital and sell existing investments.
letter of credit requirements and maintains an active dialogue with its banks.
It operates a policy of ensuring that Inability to secure project finance could hinder the ability sufficient financial resources are maintained to satisfy of the Group to make a bid, or where the Group has a committed and likely future investment requirements.
preferred bidder position, could negatively impact whether an underlying project reaches financial close.
The Group believes that there is currently sufficient depth and breadth in project finance markets to meet the The inability of a project company to satisfactorily financing needs of the projects it invests in.
The Group refinance existing maturing medium-term project works closely with a wide range of project finance finance facilities periodically during the life of a project providers, including banks and other financial institutions.
could affect the Groups projected future returns on Projects in which the Group has invested in PPP markets investments from such projects.
such as Australia and New Zealand, where the tenor of Adverse financial performance by a project company project finance facilities at financial close tends to be which affects the financial covenants in its project medium term, will need to be refinanced in due course.
finance loan documents may result in the project Prior to financial close, all proposed investments are company being unable to make distributions to the scrutinised by the Investment Committee.
This scrutiny Group and other investors and may enable senior includes a review of sensitivities to adverse performance project finance debt providers to declare default on of investment returns and financial ratio tests as well as the financing terms and exercise their security.
an assessment of a projects ability to be refinanced if the tenor of its debt is less than the term of the concession or the projects useful life.
The Group maintains an active dialogue with the banks and other financial institutions which provide project finance to the projects in which it invests.
Monitoring of compliance with financial covenant ratios and other terms of loan documents continues throughout the term of the project finance loan.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
