Strategic Report Financial Review Order input at 1,877m decreased 24% on a constant currency basis.
Original equipment orders were down across all markets driven by weak commodity prices and the resultant impact on customer activity levels.
Stability Aftermarket orders were down 22%, reflecting a significant decrease in Oil & Gas and representing 69% of total input 2014: 67%.
Minerals order input was 1,033m, slightly down on 2014 with customers closing Focus on cash and cost in mines, cutting safety stocks and postponing scheduled prolonged market downturn maintenance.
On a like for like basis, Minerals input was 968m, down 9%.
Input in Oil & Gas of 567m was 48% The Group has reacted strongly over 2015 in down on the prior year reflecting a substantial reduction in response to the severe conditions seen across upstream activity as oil prices collapsed during 2015.
Input all key end markets, through a keen focus on in Power & Industrial was down 11% to 277m reflecting a both cost and cash management.
On a constant reduction of 20% in original equipment input against a prior year which included large hydro and steam turbine orders.
currency basis, operating profit before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation of 259m was Revenue of 1,918m was 22% down on a constant down 42% year on year, a result underpinned by currency basis.
The aftermarket accounted for 69% of revenues, a 3 percentage point increase over the prior good strategic progress.
Minerals revenues were down 4% at 1,034m 2014: 1,077m on a constant currency basis, and down 9% like for like excluding Trio and Delta acquisition.
This result reflects the challenging original equipment markets, although aftermarket revenues performed resiliently, down only 1% year on year.
The 2015 full year revenue impact of the Trio and Delta acquisitions was 63m.
Oil & Gas revenues decreased by 45% to 582m reflecting order input trends, particularly in North America.
Power & Industrial revenues decreased by 5% to 302m in Free cash flow EBITDA Cash conversion 2015.
On a reported basis Group revenue was down 21% on the prior year.
132m 123% 68% 41% Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation decreased by 42% to 259m on a reported basis.
Restructuring related cost savings of 65m and procurement savings of 37m were realised during the year, an element of the latter passed on to customers to secure available volumes.
One-off costs incurred in the period, excluding exceptional items, were 5m 2014: 2m and related solely to acquisition and integration costs.
The contribution from current and prior year acquisitions in 2015 was 8m, after charging integration costs.
Unallocated costs were 19m 2014: 20m, reflecting our continued investment in innovation and strategic initiatives, offset by cost reduction measures implemented centrally.
Operating margin from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation was 13.5%, a decrease of 490 basis points on a reported basis on the prior year 2014: 18.4%: 18.6% on a constant currency basis.
Minerals reported an operating margin, JON STANTON on a constant currency basis, of 19.2% 2014: 20.2% Finance Director for the full year demonstrating the divisions resilience to the downturn in commodity prices and the benefits of a significant installed base.
The like for like Minerals operating margin was 19.5% 2014: 20.3%.
The Oil & Gas full year operating margin at 10.0% 2014: 22.8% The Weir Group PLC 42 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III constant currency reflects the substantial volume The cash flow forecasts underpinning the impairment decline, negative operating leverage and pricing pressure testing reflect current oil price projections with depressed seen across the division's North American upstream activity levels expected to endure for the next two years businesses.
The operating margin in Power & Industrial followed by a gradual pick up in year three and measured was 7.2% 2014: 5.9% constant currency and reflects return to more normal levels thereafter, albeit not the benefits from cost reduction and operational anticipating a return to the recent highs of 2012 for this improvement measures taken at the end of 2014, business.
With regard to impairment testing of the which more than offset the impact of lower volumes.
Pressure Pumping CGU, this business is more mature than Pressure Control and has significant levels of headroom EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, between net asset value and value in use remaining, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EBITDA despite the current prolonged market downturn.
Applying Depreciation of property, plant & equipment in the period the same market assumptions as the Pressure Control was 63m 2014: 61m resulting in EBITDA of 322m financial modelling resulted in no impairment being 2014: 511m.
assessed in respect of Pressure Pumping.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND An impairment of 26m has also been recognised in INTANGIBLES AMORTISATION relation to the goodwill of two other CGUs in Power & An operating exceptional charge of 365m 2014: 212m Industrial reflecting the planned disposal of non-core and intangibles amortisation of 53m 2014: 45m assets following the creation of the Weir Flow Control resulted in a total Group operating loss for the year of division.
No impairment has been identified in relation 158m 2014: profit of 193m.
The primary components to any of the other CGUs.
Further detail is presented of the exceptional items in the current year were the oil in note 14. and gas downturn actions of 92m implemented to mitigate current market conditions, and the impairment Other exceptional items in the period include the 2m charge against intangible assets of 251m.
In addition, unwind of inventory fair value adjustments in respect the final charges in respect of the Group-wide efficiency of Trio, offset by a gain of 2m 2014: charge of 1m review announced in November 2014 were recorded in relation to the fair value adjustment of contingent in the first half of the year charge of 8m 2014: 49m consideration liabilities and the release of a warranty and other restructuring actions taken by the Minerals indemnity provision of 4m which lapsed during and Power & Industrial divisions, by way of continued the period.
response to market conditions, resulted in further charges of 16m 2014: nil.
Amortisation increased to 53m from 45m in the prior year, primarily as a result of the full year impact of Trio, The oil and gas downturn actions included a range of and the Delta acquisition in 2015. activities designed to counteract the significant impact of the oil price collapse over the year, including consolidation of manufacturing facilities and service centres, combined with reductions in headcount.
In addition the decision was taken to rationalise product lines and discontinue support for certain older product lines which have been superseded in the market by new technologies, as well as reassess actual and expected utilisation of rental assets based on the lower for longer outlook for the market.
The total charge in relation to these actions comprised an anticipated cash cost of 31m, of which 7m was reflected in the current year cash flow statement, and an impairment of assets of 61m.
Of the total asset impairment, 28m related to the write-down of inventory with the balance of 33m relating to property, plant & equipment.
The prolonged downturn facing oil and gas markets, and the resultant impact on the North American rig count and related activity levels, resulted in an impairment charge of 225m being recognised at the end of the year in relation to the intangible assets held in the Pressure Control cash generating unit CGU.
This has been allocated 193m against goodwill and 32m against other intangible assets and is further to the goodwill impairment of 160m that was recognised in 2014.
The Weir Group PLC 43 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Financial Review continued NET FINANCE COSTS EARNINGS PER SHARE Total net finance costs, including exceptional items, Earnings per share from continuing operations were 41m 2014: 43m.
There were four components before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation of this net charge, the most significant being the interest decreased by 45% to 78.4p 2014: 141.3p.
Reported cost of 41m 2014: 44m on the Groups borrowings loss per share including exceptional items, intangibles including amounts in relation to derivative financial amortisation and profit from discontinued operations was instruments.
The other elements were finance income 83.6p 2014: earnings per share of 34.3p.
The weighted of 5m 2014: 6m, a charge of 3m 2014: 3m in average number of shares in issue increased to 213.7m relation to the Groups defined benefit pension plans and 2014: 213.3m following the issue of 593,934 shares an exceptional cost of 2m 2014: 2m being the unwind as partial consideration for the acquisition of Delta Valves of the discount on contingent consideration liabilities.
Net finance costs excluding retirement benefit CASH FLOWS Cash generated from operations before working capital related amounts and exceptional items were covered movements was 309m 2014: 503m.
Cash generated 7.2 times by operating profit from continuing operations, from operations decreased by 6% from 421m to 396m before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation but represents an improved EBITDA to cash conversion 2014: 11.7 times.
Working capital cash inflows of 87m 2014: outflow of 82m were driven by excellent Profit before tax from continuing operations before cash collections of receivables, particularly in Oil & Gas.
exceptional items and intangibles amortisation decreased Exceptional items in the period resulted in total cash by 46% to 220m 2014: 409m.
The reported loss outflows of 33m across all restructuring activities before tax from continuing operations of 200m 2014: 11m.
compares to a profit before tax of 149m in 2014.
Net capital expenditure decreased from 101m in 2014 The tax charge for the year of 53m 2014: 106m to 88m in the current year, reflecting the Groups focus on profit before tax from continuing operations before on cash management while maintaining investment in exceptional items and intangibles amortisation of 220m key strategic arenas including operational efficiency, R&D 2014: 409m represents an underlying effective tax and Group-wide Information Systems.
Our ETR is principally of financing derivatives resulted in a net cash outflow driven by the geographical mix of profits arising in our of 2m 2014: 3m and additional pension contributions business and, to a lesser extent, by the impact of group of 3m 2014: 11m were paid in the year in respect financing arrangements.
In the same way that the recent of agreed deficit recovery contributions.
The reduction drop in US business activity has contributed to a reduction in the pension contributions is the result of a pension in ETR, any disproportionate recovery in the US will yield funding partnership agreement reached between the upward pressure on our ETR.
Cyclical market conditions company and the Trustees of the main UK defined benefit and anticipated changes in the international tax rules also plan, which reduced cash contributions payable in 2015 mean that our ability to sustain current intra-group and, under which the agreed annual cash contributions financing arrangements may be reduced in future periods.
going forward over a period of up to the next 15 years The Groups policy with regard to tax matters is discussed will be 2m in 2016: 3m in 2017 and 4m thereafter.
Free cash flow from continuing operations, before DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS There has been no impact of discontinued operations cash exceptional items and after dividends of 94m in the current year, with income in the prior year of 2014: 103m, was 132m 2014: 79m.
Outflows in 1m representing the release of unutilised provisions respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries of 15m resulted in relation to previous disposals, on expiration of the in a closing net debt of 825m 2014: 861m, which tax warranty periods.
includes an adverse foreign exchange movement of 48m.
On a lender covenant basis, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 2.5 times and on a reported basis was 2.6 times, compared to a covenant level of 3.5 times.
The Weir Group PLC 44 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Strategy in action Value Chain Excellence Weir Cloud Innovation and Collaboration anywhere Cloud computing has changed the way organisations Focused on delivering best value, the resultant deliver and consume IT services, benefitting approach uses a blend of public and private cloud companies both large and small.
During 2014 and services to provide Weir employees access to high 2015, Weir worked closely with technology leaders quality IT services wherever they work, in the most Dell Corporation and Microsoft Corporation to secure and cost-effective way possible.
The approach design a cloud-based solution for IT infrastructure provides Weir with an agile platform, capable of taking that would meet the complex needs of a workforce advantage of new opportunities as they emerge in this distributed over some 70 countries.
The roll-out of Weir Cloud will extend to the majority of employees during 2016.
The Weir Group PLC 45 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Financial Review continued Another principal risk arises from the uncertainty created RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED ROCE The Groups ROCE of 10.0% for 2015 on a like for like by the changing international tax landscape which may basis, excluding Trio and Delta was lower than the prior impact our financing arrangements going forward.
While year 2014: 18.2%, reflecting current market conditions.
anticipated changes to the tax environment are not yet finalised, we continue to actively monitor this as part of DIVIDENDS our tax risk management.
Our decisions in relation to tax The Board is recommending a final dividend of 29.0p are governed by the Groups risk appetite statement which resulting in a total dividend of 44.0p for the year, aligned sets out the risk assertions and the parameters within with 2014. Dividend cover being the ratio of earnings per which we operate.
We also face the inherent risk that we share from continuing operations before exceptional items fail to meet our compliance obligations given the size and and intangibles amortisation, to dividend per share is diversity of the Group.
The Group mitigates the risk of 1.8 times.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the failure to meet our tax obligations through the application final dividend will be paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders of a series of policies and procedures, defined roles and on the register on 29 April 2016 with a scrip dividend responsibilities and delegated authority matrices.
The risk that the application of management judgements ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS and estimates in tax provisioning in the financial On 8 July 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of statements fails to present a true and fair view of the tax 100% of the voting shares of Delta Industrial Valves Inc. position is a risk which receives significant focus from Delta Valves for a total consideration of 26m, represented management, tax advisers and auditors.
Actions to by 14m in cash including settlement of external debt, mitigate include the following: 9m in new equity of the Company and contingent local reporting entities prepare tax provisions and consideration of 3m.
Delta Valves is a US-based balances in accordance with Group Accounting Policy: manufacturer of knife gate valves for the mining, procedures are in place to escalate issues to Group oil sands and other industrial markets.
level and the Group tax team is involved in the progression and completion of tax audits: In March 2015, the Group completed the acquisition tax data in the financial statements, is reviewed of the remaining 49% of Trio Chile a minor joint venture quarterly in alignment with the broader quarterly acquired as part of the Trio acquisition in 2014, for financial reporting process.
Variances against forecast a consideration of 0.4m.
are measured to ensure that movements in the ETR are explained: TAX POLICY external tax advisers either prepare or review the The Groups strategic tax objectives are to: annual tax provisions and balances: comply with all applicable tax laws and regulations, tax is a significant financial reporting matter regularly including the timely submission of all tax returns reviewed by the Audit Committee: and and tax payments: and the external auditor reviews the tax figures in the develop and maintain strong working relationships interim statement and audits the tax figures and with local tax authorities and undertake all dealings disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts.
with them in a professional and timely manner.
In terms of cash tax, the Group paid income tax of 50m We take a conservative approach to all tax planning with in 2015 across all of its jurisdictions compared to 94m the overarching aim of paying the right amount of tax at in 2014, the reduction driven by lower profits.
Net cash the right time in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate.
tax paid in the UK in 2015 across corporation tax, VAT and payroll taxes was approximately 26m 2014: 41m.
We operate in a complex global environment doing business in and between many countries.
This complexity and the TREASURY MANAGEMENT variability of our tax obligations, across a range of different The Group is financed through a combination of bank tax jurisdictions, present risks which require to be managed.
debt, fixed rate private placement notes, commercial A principal tax risk faced by the Group arises as a result paper and equity.
The capital structure is managed of uncertainty regarding the acceptance of the Groups centrally with the objectives of optimising capital intragroup transaction pricing policies by tax authorities efficiency, diversifying the investor base, achieving around the world.
This risk is mitigated by management an orderly maturity of funding, yet maintaining a good through i ensuring compliance with local transfer pricing degree of financial headroom.
legislation in each relevant jurisdiction: ii proactive liaison with tax authorities: and iii the involvement of external tax The principal financial risks faced by the Group are those advisers in the identification and management of pricing relating to liquidity, foreign currency and credit risk.
The Weir Group PLC 46 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III The Groups treasury policies and procedures, which are INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT reviewed and updated on a regular basis, seek to reduce The Groups debt is in a combination of fixed and variable these financial risks.
Within this framework, the Group rates of interest.
It is our policy to maintain a proportion of uses financial assets and liabilities including derivatives debt at fixed rates of interest subject to the future outlook to hedge certain foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
for the level of interest rates.
At the end of 2015, the proportion of the Groups debt at fixed rates was 76% FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY compared to 78% as at the end of 2014.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility, through the use of FOREIGN EXCHANGE bank overdrafts, bank loans, commercial paper and long The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates term fixed rate notes.
The Group held net cash balances for transactions undertaken in non-functional currencies of 179m at the end of 2015 2014: 167m representing of the operating companies concerned, and the translation operating balances held by the Groups subsidiaries.
of foreign currency denominated net assets and profit and loss items.
On 12 January 2015, the Group repaid US$90m US dollar fixed rate notes and 12m sterling fixed rate notes as they All material transactional currency exposures are hedged, fell due, using existing facilities including the US$800m usually by means of forward contracts thereby ensuring multi-currency revolving credit facility and certain certainty over revenue and costs.
Subject to local exchange uncommitted sterling borrowing facilities.
controls, foreign exchange transactions are executed by the central treasury function.
No speculative transactions are On 1 April 2015 the Group commenced a US$1bn commercial undertaken.
Although hedging is carried out for all material paper programme, under which 166m was outstanding economic exposures, only four subsidiaries applied cash at the end of the year.
All maturities are less than one year.
flow hedge accounting under IAS 39 during the period.
In September 2014, the Group amended the US$800m In respect of translational risk, the Group has a policy multi-currency revolving credit facility, which was previously to partially hedge United States dollar US$, Australian refinanced in July 2013 and due to mature in July 2018.
The dollar AUD, Euro EUR and South African rand ZAR net amendment extended the maturity date to July 2019, with asset exposures.
This is achieved through designating an the option of two one-year extensions.
In July 2015, the element of foreign currency borrowings, forward foreign option to extend the maturity to July 2020 was exercised.
currency contracts and cross currency swaps as net At 1 January 2016, US$70m 2014: US$210m was drawn.
investment hedges against the Groups investments.
The Total unamortised issue costs at 1 January 2016 were Group does not hedge the foreign currency translational 4m 2014: 5m.
exposure arising from profit and loss items.
All covenants were met at 1 January 2016 with headroom The weakening of Sterling relative to 2014, primarily under each financial ratio.
against the US dollar resulted in a net loss on translation of net assets of 30m, including the effect of the balance The Group has additional committed and uncommitted sheet hedging programme.
bonding facilities under which guarantees are issued in support of commercial activities.
Net retirement benefit plan deficit m CREDIT MANAGEMENT The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its 82m trade receivables with risk spread over a large number of countries and customers.
There is no significant -13% concentration of credit risk.
Credit worthiness checks are undertaken before entering into contracts with new 100 customers and credit limits are set as appropriate.
We 94 also use trade finance instruments such as letters of 82 80 credit and insurance to mitigate any specific identified 70 risk.
The Groups exposure to the credit risk of financial 60 institutions is limited by the adherence to counterparty limits and by only trading with counterparties who have 40 a strong credit standing based on ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies.
20 2013 2014 2015 0 The Weir Group PLC 47 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Financial Review continued Further information on financial risk management A claim made in the prior year by Philippines Gold objectives and policies can be found in note 30 to the Processing & Refining Corporation against Weir Services Group financial statements.
Australia Pty Limited WSA, a subsidiary of the Company, was successfully defended at an arbitration, with the RETIREMENT BENEFITS judgement issued in favour of WSA in January 2016.
The Group has four defined benefit pension plans, the During the arbitration process, the Group entered into largest of which are the two UK plans.
The Group has a cap and collar agreement with the claimant, which sought to pro-actively manage its exposure to its pension limited the potential exposure for the Group to plans with more than half of the liabilities of the main a fide minimus amount.
UK defined benefit plan the Main Plan hedged using insurance policies, which provide significant protection Asbestos-related claims against changes in market conditions.
During the period Certain of the Groups US-based subsidiaries are to 3 January 2014, agreement was reached with the co-defendants in lawsuits pending in the United States Trustees of the Main Plan to close the plan to future in which plaintiffs are claiming damages arising from accrual of benefits with effect from 30 June 2015 and alleged exposure to products previously manufactured accordingly a curtailment gain of 3m was recorded which contained asbestos.
At the end of 2015, there as an exceptional item in the 2013 Income Statement.
were 1,263 asbestos-related claims outstanding in the This was reassessed in 2015 with no adjustment US 2014: 1,503.
The Group has comprehensive required.
During 2015 the Group entered into a pension insurance cover for these cases and since the inception funding partnership arrangement, under which it will of the litigations in 2002 all claims have been directly contribute interest in a Scottish Limited Partnership to managed by the Groups insurers who have, in the the Main Plan, details of which are included in note 24. intervening period, made settlements totalling approximately 12m as well as meeting all associated With regard to the key assumptions underpinning the defence costs.
The insurers and their legal advisers agree IAS 19 Revised valuation, these have been updated and execute the defence strategy between them and to reflect market conditions at the end of the year with there are no related cash flows to or from the Group.
We the only change being to the discount rate applied to expect this to continue for the foreseeable future as long the pension liabilities: this increased from 3.5% to 3.7%.
Full details of the provision, and Actuarial gains on the liability side due to changes in related insurance receivable, are provided in note 22. financial and demographic assumptions, coupled with a loss due to other experience, are partially offset by In the UK, there are 21 2014: 26 outstanding asbestosactuarial losses on the asset side.
Combined these have related claims which are not the subject of insurance led to a decrease in the net deficit in the Groups total net cover.
The expected settlement costs of these and retirement benefit obligations from 94m to 82m over anticipated future claims in the UK are fully provided the year.
for within employee related provisions in note 22.
NET ASSETS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Net assets at the end of 2015 were 1,198m, a decrease of The financial statements have been prepared in 284m on the prior year 2014: 1,482m.
This decrease is accordance with IFRS and the material accounting driven by the total net comprehensive expense for the year policies are set out on pages 135 to 141 of this Annual of 197m and dividends paid of 94m.
There have been no significant changes to the accounting policies adopted in 2015.
LITIGATION The Company and certain subsidiaries are, from time In the process of applying the Groups accounting to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which policies, management has applied certain judgements, arise in the normal course of business.
To the extent assumptions and estimates.
These estimates and not already provided for, the Directors do not anticipate assumptions are based on historical experience, that the outcome of these proceedings or claims, either information available at the time and other factors individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse considered relevant.
Those with the most significant effect on the Groups financial position.
All actions are effect on the amounts recognised in the financial robustly defended.
statements are set out below.
Further judgements, assumptions and estimates are set out on page 136.
The Weir Group PLC 48 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Acquisition accounting Provisions On the acquisition of a business, management assess: Provisions are recognised where the Group has an i the Purchase Price Allocation PPA in order to attribute obligation, as a result of a past event, that can be fair values to separately identifiable intangible assets measured reliably and where an outflow of economic providing they meet the recognition criteria: ii the benefits is considered probable.
Management judgement fair values of other assets and liabilities: and iii is used to determine the amount of such provisions compliance with the disclosure requirements of IFRS 3, taking into account the commercial drivers which gave Business Combinations.
rise to them, the Groups previous experience of similar obligations and the progress of any associated legal The fair values of these intangible assets are dependent proceedings.
Provisions for inventory and trade on estimates of attributable future revenues, margins receivables are assessed along with those provisions and cash flows, as well as appropriate discount rates.
With regard to inventory provisioning, addition, the allocation of useful lives to acquired intangible historical usage as well as anticipated future demand assets requires the application of judgement based on is considered note 16.
Where changes to these available information and management expectations at the factors occur during the period this may impact on the time of recognition.
The valuation of other tangible assets assumption integral to managements assessment of and liabilities involves aligning accounting policies with the provision and the overall valuation.
Any changes those of the Group, reflecting appropriate external market are recognised in the income statement in the period.
valuations for property, plant & equipment, assessing recoverability of receivables and inventory, and exposures Taxation to unrecorded liabilities.
In deriving appropriate fair values Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation the process will inevitably involve the use of estimates and of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing the application of management judgement.
The disclosure of future taxable income.
Given the wide range of in relation to the acquisition of Delta Valves in the current international business relationships and the long year is provided in note 13. term nature and complexity of existing contractual arrangements, differences arising between the actual Impairment results and the assumptions made or future changes IFRS requires companies to carry out impairment testing to such assumptions could result in future adjustments on any assets that show indications of impairment, as to tax income and expense already recorded.
Provisions well as annually for goodwill and other intangible assets are established based on reasonable estimates for with indefinite lives and so not subject to amortisation.
possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities This testing includes exercising management judgement of the respective countries in which the Group operates.
about future cash flows and other events which are, Management judgement is used to determine the amount by their nature, uncertain.
During 2015, we completed of such provisions taking into account that differences impairment testing over the Groups cash generating of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues units CGUs and the details and results of this exercise depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective are discussed above and reported in note 14.
Detailed tax disclosures are provided in notes 7 and 23.
Retirement benefits The assumptions underlying the valuation of retirement benefit assets and liabilities are important and based on actuarial advice.
Changes in these assumptions could have a material impact on the measurement of the Groups retirement benefit obligations.
Sensitivities to changes in key assumptions are provided in note 24.
JON STANTON Finance Director 24 February 2016 The Weir Group PLC 49 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
