Chief Executives Operational Review Roger White carbonates grew value by 1.0%.
The still OUR STRATEGY Over the past 12 months we have category experienced volume growth of We have further developed our strategy successfully executed our proven strategy and business model, delivering 0.8% with marginal decline in value of 0.2%.
during the period, focusing on growth against our consistent objective of opportunities within the market, however our creating sustainable shareholder value.
Once again the overall market was driven business model remains firmly underpinned by the performance of the water category by our overriding objective to create value Our revenue growth in the 12 months to which has overtaken cola to become the for shareholders.
Our key areas of strategic 25 January 2015 was 2.7%, comfortably largest single category by volume for focus remain: out-performing a more lacklustre total the first time.
The energy sub-category Core brands and markets: soft drinks market.
continued to grow value at 4.1% and the Brand portfolio: fruit drinks category also grew, however Route to market: Pre-tax profit, before exceptional items, significant declines continued in fruit juice, Partnerships: increased by 10.0% with enhanced dilutes and sports drinks categories.
Efficient operations: operating margins as we benefited from People development: and the structural operating improvements There is no doubt that consumer Sustainability and responsibility.
which we have made in our supply chain preferences are changing within the total and further overhead cost control, as well soft drinks category.
Areas where traditional During the year we have continued to as a more benign cost of goods environment.
growth has been available are now proving develop our internal Fit for the Future Alongside our cost control actions, we have more difficult to generate growth making programme with the clear aim of supporting continued to invest in our long-term success differentiated brands and appealing to our overall growth ambitions through the with significant capital investments in our consumers more important than ever.
prioritisation and execution of key business operating infrastructure and continued high improvement and development projects.
levels of investment in our core brand equities, Against this market backdrop, we are Multiple initiatives and projects have been innovation and executional capability.
pleased to report that all of our core successfully delivered over the past 12 brands have grown in the period.
The still months across our areas of strategic focus MARKET PERFORMANCE category has delivered a particularly strong and there is now significant momentum in The U. K. soft drinks market, as measured performance with growth of 5.7%, driven by terms of change across all areas of the by Nielsen, entered a deflationary phase over 20% growth in the Strathmore brand business as we continue this targeted towards the end of the year, however and Snapple which, although relatively development activity.
across our full reporting period the market small in total revenue terms, grew by 35%.
experienced 0.2% volume decline and 0.4% Our carbonates performance was robust, value growth.
The market has seen a number with growth well ahead of the market in of important developments over the past IRN-BRU Sugar Free, Rubicon and Barr.
12 months, with year-on-year comparative This year Rockstar grew more in line with figures impacted, in part, by exceptionally the energy market at 5.2%, following warm weather in the prior year.
In volume the very significant growth of 60% in terms, carbonates declined by 1.3% following the prior year.
strong growth in the previous year, however A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 14 WE HAVE SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTED OUR PROVEN STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL, DELIVERING AGAINST OUR CONSISTENT OBJECTIVE OF CREATING SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
ROGER WHITE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Chief Executives Operational Review Continued IRN-BRU CORE BRANDS, MARKETS WE SET OUT IN 2014 TO GROW Total IRN-BRU invoiced sales grew by AND INNOVATION OUR SUGAR FREE BRANDS Our portfolio performance was well 1.6% including frozen with Sugar Free balanced last year, with growth across contributing strongly to this growth.
The AHEAD OF OUR TOTAL all of our core brands.
This balanced IRN-BRU brand benefited significantly from GROWTH AND WE HAVE performance continued across our our successful sponsorship of the Glasgow geographical development platform, with 2014 Commonwealth Games, where SUCCESSFULLY DELIVERED growth across all of our core operating we directed much of our brand activity, AGAINST THIS OBJECTIVE.
markets Scotland, the rest of the U. K. promotion and consumer communication.
Sales in England and The Games activity created very positive Wales, which now account for almost 60% consumer engagement, with the role of of our businesss total revenues, grew by social media and consumer-driven contact 3.5% and international sales grew by 7.9%.
playing an increasingly important part in the Our position in Scotland remains extremely ongoing development of our brand equity.
strong and we grew sales by 1.2%, however our significant future growth potential lies In the period, we sold just under 1m of in the rest of the U. K. and increasingly IRN-BRU ice cream, further strengthening in the high potential international segment the link between the brand and core of our business.
IRN-BRU ice cream In January 2014, IRN-BRU ice cream was launched with phenomenal success.
Almost 1m of IRN-BRU ice cream has been sold in its first year.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 16 Chief Executives Operational Review Continued This move into chilled broadens our Rubicon Of particular note was the performance of Exotics Rubicon and KA brand appeal into wider shopping occasions IRN-BRU in England and Wales, specifically The market performance of fruit juice has in the North East, Lancashire and Yorkshire been poor across the last 12 months, with and attracts new consumers, some of whom regions.
Sales across England and Wales significant declines in the biggest brands only drink chilled juice and juice drinks.
Our in total increased by 5.6%, with Sugar leading to intense promotional activity chilled Rubicon offering is available in Mango, Free growing by over 20% in this market.
Guava and Lychee and will be supported We have been successful in our strategy to by specific brand and market facing develop IRN-BRU in the north of England Within this context Rubicon has delivered consumer activity.
and now plan to target increased levels of a further solid performance in the year with distribution and brand awareness further growth of 3.4%.
Across the Rubicon portfolio, into England and Wales in 2015. carbonates have delivered a more robust performance, growing by 8.1%, with a 1.5% We set out in 2014 to grow our Sugar Free growth in stills reflecting the challenges of brands ahead of our total growth and we have the total juice market.
Rubicon has benefited successfully delivered against this objective.
from increased brand investment as we In addition, we have reduced the total sugar continue to drive the brand into mainstream content per 100ml of our Company-owned consumer repertoires.
Innovation is also brands at a rate in excess of our Government a key platform for Rubicons long-term Responsibility Deal pledge.
We will continue growth potential in the period we launched to drive our innovation, product and portfolio Coconut Water, which continues to develop development plans such that we continue to as a sub-category flavour, and in January deliver against our Responsibility Deal targets 2015 we launched the Rubicon brand into going forward.
Cheer We Go In the Spring we ran our major on pack promotion activity behind the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games.
Over 160,000 entries were received, of which a third came from outside of Scotland.
There were over 15,000 winners, including 500 lucky consumers who won VIP tickets to some of the events.
Team Scotland athletes were presented with IRN-BRU Lucky Socks to help them on their way.
Medal winning athletes were presented to the crowds in Glasgow from the roof of the IRN-BRU shop.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 17 Chief Executives Operational Review Continued Strathmore had an outstanding year with PARTNERSHIPS Barr and Strathmore growth of over 20%.
The development of During the last year we have further The Barr range of flavoured carbonates continues to grow steadily year-on-year, the brand was supported by the huge level developed and enhanced our partnerships.
driven by a combination of innovation, of awareness driven by our Glasgow 2014 Rockstar continued to grow in line with the quality and value for money.
With sales Commonwealth Games sponsorship, in market following the prior years outstanding growth of over 6%, it remains comfortably particular the availability of Strathmore in growth performance.
Innovation remains the ahead of the carbonates market growth.
the field of play, with athletes from around lifeblood of growth in this fast moving and In the period, the successful launch of the Commonwealth enjoying and interacting fashion-conscious category.
Rockstar Xtra Cola, and the further development with the brand across the whole event.
continues to lead the way with new of new flavours and formats, all helped Subsequently, we have strengthened concepts, such as the recently launched to underpin a strong performance.
the Strathmore brands association with Rockstar Energy Waters, combining the two sport through our new partnership with key growth categories of flavoured water Scottish Rugby, driving even greater and energy.
We have also recently extended brand awareness.
In combination with our partnership with Rockstar on a territory this, we successfully launched Strathmore basis into Scandinavia.
We will combine our Twist into the growing flavoured water brands with Rockstar in these smaller, high category and expect this element of the potential markets, applying our successful brand mix to show strong future growth.
partnership approach to build this portfolio.
Rockstar Energy Water Rockstar launched the U. K. s first energy water in January 2015, which delivers a full hit of energy from natural sources, but with a lighter taste and lower calorie content.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 18 Chief Executives Operational Review Continued ROUTE TO MARKET As previously reported, the Orangina brand DURING THE LAST The U. K. retail market is going through exited our brand portfolio in July 2014.
YEAR WE HAVE FURTHER significant change, with competition between outlets and channels growing and In September 2014, we were delighted to DEVELOPED AND ENHANCED increasingly overlapping.
We have focused announce a new partnership with Dr Pepper OUR PARTNERSHIPS.
Snapple Group DPSG to develop the on driving our go to market strategy Snapple brand in the U. K. and on a wider across a wide platform and we continue to European basis.
The brand management develop our capability and competence to transferred to A. G. BARR in January 2015 ensure we can manage multiple channels and we are very positive regarding its and the increasingly diverse routes to potential.
Last year, A. G. BARRs Snapple market required to be successful in our sales in the U. K. grew by 35%, albeit from a marketplace.
We are investing in flexibility, small base.
The Snapple brand represents an technology, assets and people to allow us to opportunity to drive profitable growth across compete successfully on as broad a front as a number of markets and this, combined with possible.
We continue to believe that, above our existing portfolio of brands focussed all, in-market execution is vitally important in outside the U. K. provides us with exciting ensuring we deliver sustainable growth.
Strathmore Inspiring the nation to Do More Strathmore inspired the nation to get active with its Do More campaign.
The brand worked together with three Team Scotland ambassadors, all of whom were medal winners.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 19 Chief Executives Operational Review Continued It is also worth noting that we exited our PEOPLE, SUSTAINABILITY EFFICIENT OPERATIONS non-core water cooler business in the AND RESPONSIBILITY It has been an exciting and challenging year for A. G. BARR, with significant internal second half of the year, which was sold The entire team at A. G. BARR has change to manage.
The investment in carton to Eden Springs UK Ltd, realising a small responded positively to the challenges packaging facilities at our Milton Keynes gain on the sale of the business.
We have of our dynamic marketplace.
We continue site, and the consequential impact on our subsequently exited the Findlays bottling to invest in development across our Tredegar site, have been well handled.
Our site at Pitcox, East Lothian.
organisation, promoting from within where new carton facilities at Milton Keynes are possible, as well as building competence well into the commissioning phase and the We have continued to drive improvement with new team members from outside the project has been delivered on time and to in our core supply chain, with the recent business to ensure we are fit to meet the budget.
As a result, the Tredegar site closed relocation and redevelopment of our supply challenges of the future.
in the first week of February 2015.
The team chain planning team to our Cumbernauld site, at Tredegar performed exceptionally well and we expect to see further inventory and A significant amount of our internal over the last few months of 2014 15, service improvements in the coming year.
management effort has been focused delivering strong operating performance on our Business Process Redesign BPR right up to the closure date.
We are very Our net capital investment expenditure in project.
This will provide a system and grateful to the entire Tredegar team for their the period was 18.0m and we expect to process platform to allow the business efforts during this difficult period.
Milton continue to invest in growth related capital to efficiently and sustainably grow for the Keynes is now growing strongly, with a projects to support our existing business long-term.
This project has involved many combination of packaging formats and development plans.
key individuals seconded to the project for processes combining with an expanding 12 to 18 months and we are now reaching team to give us an efficient platform for the important delivery phase with a June future growth.
The Milton Keynes facility, 2015 go-live plan.
Providing a quality in combination with the strong operating solution is paramount but fide-risking is performance of our other sites, will allow fundamental to the projects success and, us to improve our overall operating cost as we enter the next phase of this important base and efficiency even further.
project, we will ensure risk minimisation is at the forefront of our plans.
Barr Xtra Cola Barr Xtra Cola launched in Spring 2014 and was the Official Cola of the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games.
The event was used to promote and sample the brands Big on Taste, No Sugar message.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 20 Chief Executives Operational Review Continued FUNKIN ACQUISITION SUMMARY Safety remains at the heart of all of our We announced the acquisition of Funkin We have delivered an excellent financial operations and we have made significant progress in improving our overall Limited on 2 February 2015 for an initial cash performance in difficult market conditions management reporting and the direction consideration of 16.5m plus up to a further over the past 12 months, whilst continuing of our longer-term safety planning and 4.5m subject to the achievement of certain to build the platform required for sustained performance within the Group.
We have financial performance targets.
The Funkin and profitable long-term growth.
Looking integrated the management of safety, quality acquisition broadens and strengthens the forward, we will continue our dual track and environment under one team to ensure A. G. BARR brand portfolio and moves the approach of tight cost control, rigorous higher levels of management control and Group into a new segment of cocktail cash management and focus on execution support across our operations in the future.
This is a small but significant step at the same time as we invest for the As previously mentioned, we have made into a new, high growth sub-category of long-term in our brands, assets and people.
excellent progress across 2014 15 towards the drinks sector.
It also provides further our Responsibility Deal goals.
In addition incremental growth potential for the Group, Overall market conditions are expected we have now moved to the non-mandatory both in the U. K. and internationally, as well to remain challenging.
The U. K. soft drinks traffic light front of pack labelling system as the opportunity to enhance our position market is currently experiencing a period to ensure consumers are provided with in the on-trade and hotel, restaurant and of price deflation which will, if sustained, the clearest possible guidance as to the caf hospitality market segments.
make it more difficult for many businesses nutritional content of our drinks.
We believe to deliver the top line growth of recent in being responsible across all fronts of our years.
Whilst our year has started slowly, business and will continue our development reflecting tough comparative trading and with this at the heart of all of our plans.
promotional phasing, we are confident that our management actions, combined with our proven business model, will enable us to further unlock the significant potential that A. G. BARR offers its shareholders this year and into the future.
White Chief Executive Rubicon A new Rubicon advertising campaign was launched in March 2014.
The national campaign ran on ethnic TV channels and on digital, celebrating the unique role of Rubicon in Asian family life.
Over the summer Rubicon was present at a number of the major city Melas, giving out over 120,000 samples to consumers.
