Strategic report | Operating review | Grocery | 12 GROCERY BRINGING YOU GREA T BRANDS GREAT BRANDS, FROM BREAKFAST TO BEDTIME About Grocery: Grocery comprises consumer-facing businesses that manufacture and market a variety of well-known brands both nationally and internationally.
Twinings Ovaltine has the broadest geographical reach, selling premium teas and malted beverages in more than 100 countries.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Grocery | 13 BRINGING YOU GREA T BRANDS AB World Foods focuses on the creation in the production of its wholegrain cereals In Australia, Tip Top is one of the countrys and development of world flavours and and cereal bars.
Ryvita has built a strong most recognised brands, with an extensive its Pataks and Blue Dragon branded reputation in healthy snacking and is the range of bread and baked goods and products are sold internationally.
UK category leader in crispbreads.
Allied George Weston Foods also manufactures Westmill Foods specialises in supplying Bakeries produces a range of bakery a variety of bacon, ham and meat products UK restaurants and wholesalers with products under the Kingsmill, Sunblest, including the Don and KR Castlemaine high-quality ethnic foods including rice, Allinson and Burgen brands, with flour brands.
ACH Foods includes within its spices, sauces, oils, flour and noodles and semolina produced by sister company, range of branded products, Mazola, under brands such as Rajah, Lucky Boat Allied Mills.
Speedibake specialises in the leading corn oil in the US, Capullo, and Elephant.
own-label baked goods for retail and a premium canola oil in Mexico and foodservice customers.
Silver Spoon and a collection of herbs, spices and Jordans and Ryvita operates in the Billingtons are our two retail sugar brands corn-derived products.
better-for-you cereal and savoury biscuits in the UK, complemented by a range of categories in the UK but with increasing dessert toppings and syrups under the international presence.
Jordans has Askeys and Crusha brands.
a heritage of using traditional methods Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Grocery | 14 GROCERY FROM TWININGS TEAS TO DORSET CEREALS WE HAVE AN ENVIABLE PORTFOLIO OF LEADING FOOD BRANDS Grocery operating profit increased Revenue by 5% at constant currency with DORSET CEREALS Twinings Ovaltine and our US In October last year we acquired 3,177m vegetable oils business well ahead Dorset Cereals, a leading muesli of last year.
Revenues were 3% lower, 2014: 3,337m brand in the UK that has generated held back by commodity price significant market growth over the Actual fx: -5% deflation, leading to an increase past ten years with a range of stylish Constant fx: -3% in margin.
packaging designs and recipes made with delicious natural ingredients like Twinings Ovaltine grew market share Adjusted operating profit luscious berries & cherries muesli.
in a number of regions and generated a strong profit increase.
In the UK, where The Dorset Cereals brand is a perfect 285m the market for mainstream teas saw some fit for Jordans, Dorset & Ryvita as the contraction, Twinings sales of premium 2014: 269m business is now known given their teas grew.
Black tea packaging formats expertise in creating cereals made Actual fx: 6% were relaunched, including a premium, from wholegrains: as well as their Constant fx: 5% loose-leaf, mesh teabag range, driving UK obvious association with the beautiful market share to an all-time high.
Australia county of Dorset, which has been Adjusted operating also had another successful year with the home to Ryvita since 1948. profit margin relaunch of the English Breakfast range Dorset Cereals continues to be based supported by advertising and in-store at its home village of Poundbury in promotion.
Ovaltine sales in Thailand, one 9.0% Dorset, and now benefits from the of its most important markets, were lower 2014: 8.1% increased scale and cumulative than last year on the back of economic expertise of the wider Jordans, weakness, although margins improved Return on average Dorset & Ryvita business community.
as less volume was sold on promotion.
capital employed The acquisition has helped to create Growth was achieved in Ovaltines one of the most innovative and developing markets, particularly south dynamic wholegrain cereal businesses 22.5% east Asia and Nigeria.
Strong factory in the UK that is perfectly positioned performances across the business 2014: 20.8% to benefit from long-term consumer delivered lower manufacturing conversion trends towards more healthy, costs, and overheads were also lower premiumfoods.
benefiting from cost reduction initiatives.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Grocery | 15 THE STRENGTH OF THE DON BRAND The last few years have been challenging In pre-pack ham, where DON continues for the George Weston Foods meat to be the market leader, we launched business in Australia but in the last a premium tier with the addition of 12 months the DON brand has achieved a a Smokehouse Deli Style product to substantial improvement in performance.
We also gave the consumer A key element of the turnaround has more choice by introducing a wider been the development of strategies, range of pack sizes.
Category staples in partnership with our key retailers, such as frankfurters were reinvigorated to optimise the deli and chilled cabinet with improved pack formats, new beef fixtures in store.
Sales growth and varieties and innovation through DON margin improvement have been delivered Kransky Slims.
The move to gas flushed through a focus on quality, by increasing packaging and shelf-ready shippers the range of products on offer, and by for bacon significantly improved Sales volumes at Allied Bakeries increased highlighting the brands key attributes.
DONs presence on shelf as well as over the financial year although the improving the overall appearance The retail chiller aisle in Australian UK bread market continued to be very of the bacon category.
supermarkets is an area where challenging and lower bread prices prepacked smallgoods ham, bacon, We have also taken the DON brand resulted in a reduction in profitability.
have historically into new segments with a range of The Kingsmill brand was relaunched in underperformed against global cooking ingredients, including diced May with new packaging across the range.
Shopper research bacon, ham and chorizo: and the launch Following last years highly successful confirmed that the aisle was difficult of DONSKI salami sticks for anytime launch, revenues from Sandwich Thins to shop and the range lacked breadth, convenient snacking.
continued to build and benefited from appeal and inspiration.
As Australias the addition of a wholemeal variant to the The results have seen a resurgence in best known and preferred smallgoods range.
We completed our major capital DON brand awareness and increased brand, DON took the lead in transforming investment programme during the year, consumer preference.
DON smallgoods the shopping experience.
Strategies introduced a variety of initiatives which sales grew by 10% over the prior year to drive increased volume included: reduced waste and further streamlined with an increased retail market share, redesigning the way products are production, and delivered products of and there are more opportunities still presented on shelf: improving the value a consistently high quality throughout to pursue.
of everyday ham: creating a premium the year.
quality tier: expansion into new Silver Spoon substantially improved categories: and increasing marketing operational efficiency this year and and media investment.
achieved commercial success with increased volumes to the major UK retailers.
In the home baking sector, Allinson maintained its position as the leading bread flour brand.
Since its acquisition in October 2014, Dorset Cereals has traded ahead of our business plan and its integration with Jordans Ryvita went smoothly.
The business gained market share and three products won 2015 Great Taste awards.
Jordans continued to perform well, also gaining market share in the UK and launching very successfully in Australia.
It also launched its Jordans Farm partnership in conjunction with LEAF Linking Environment and Farming and the Wildlife Trust ensuring improved sustainability and biodiversity on the farms of our oat suppliers.
Ryvita had a more difficult year with lower crispbread sales in a competitive market.
The introduction of a second sweet crispbread variety, Apple & Cinnamon, was well received and Ryvita Thins continued to grow strongly.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Grocery | 16 GROCERY Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Grocery | 17 ENGAGING THE SENSES WITH OUR PREMIUM BLENDS This year, both within the UK and Twinings is about creating internationally, Twinings launched new brands people love premium ranges of large leaf teas in transparent mesh bags, housed in winning hearts and minds striking and original packaging.
Our by delivering inspiring master blenders have drawn on their expertise, and inspiration from their tea experiences.
travels, to craft a range which engages the senses: beautiful, arresting teas Central to our strategy is the continual and infusions, combined with uplifting refinement of our products and packs aromas that create a taste adventure developing teas and infusions that truly in every sip.
In so doing, we are capitalising on an accelerating trend in consumer We use all our skill and experience to tastes across many markets, away conjure up wonderful worlds, telling from standard, traditional products stories about our teas that fire the towards more rewarding, premium imagination and leave people eager to brands and formats.
We have successfully attracted tea consumers who are seeking something more fulfilling than their usual cup, and those inspired to try tea, perhaps, for the first time.
Its part of how we redefine what tea can be, and as a result, inspire a new generation of tea drinkers.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Operating review | Grocery | 18 GROCERY EXPANDING THE LUNCH OCCASION In response to market trends, Kingsmillextended its range in Sandwich Alternatives with the launch of Kingsmill Sandwich Thins in September 2014.
This is a light-textured, pre-sliced bakery product that offers consumers something different to liven up their lunch.
The Sandwich Thins sector is currently the fastest growing part of the bakery category, with sales growth of 45% year-on-year.
Already worth an impressive 65m per annum, the sector is expected to achieve significant further growth.
Kingsmill Sandwich Thins are produced at Allied Bakeries Glasgow bakery, following an investment in a completely new manufacturing facility.
Three variants are currently available: White, Wholemeal and 50 50 made from a blend of white and wholemeal flour.
Loyal Kingsmill shoppers were encouraged into this growing product area and, to support the product launch, a TV advertising campaign ran over January and February 2015.
This proved successful in driving trial and repeat purchase and just nine months after launch, Kingsmill achieved a share of the Sandwich Thins sector of over 25%.
The introduction of Kingsmill Sandwich Thins has also had a positive impact on the overall bakery market, helping retailers to stimulate interest in the category and adding value to the bakery aisle in store.
Growth in the Sandwich Thins market sector year on year 45% Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Operating review | Grocery | 19 At AB World Foods, Pataks and Blue Dragon maintained their positions as the LUCKY BOAT NOODLES leading Indian and Oriental ambient brands Westmill Foods is a specialist food in the UK.
An improved sales mix drove company, serving the chefs and an overall margin increase and operating owners of Chinese and Indian profit was ahead of last year.
The business restaurants and takeaways, as well achieved further growth in its export as a diverse range of Indian, Pakistani, markets with particular success for Bangladeshi, Chinese, African and Pataks in Australia and Canada.
ethnic restaurant and takeaway market One of its leading brands is Lucky has seen some improvement after several Boat, a wheat noodle used by Chinese years of decline, with increased consumer chefs and noodle bars.
Lucky Boat expenditure on out-of-home eating.
sales have grown each year since Westmill achieved margin improvement 2007 and it is now the UKs number with its Chinese catering brands one noodle with a brand share of 64% performing particularly well driven within the Chinese restaurant market.
Over this period Westmill has made Revenue and operating profit at George a considerable investment in its Weston Foods in Australia were in line manufacturing site in Manchester, with last year.
Tip Top bread volumes to improve product quality, production increased but margins fell as retailers efficiency and capacity, ensuring featured bread in their drive for lower that Lucky Boat delivers consistency prices with heavy price promotion activity for chefs.
Working with Chinese more than offsetting the benefits of cost customers and chefs alike, Westmill reduction and productivity improvements has demonstrated that because they across all bakery sites.
Margins in the are easier to prepare and cook, there Don KRC meat business were affected are considerable savings to be made by the high cost of bought-in raw materials by using Lucky Boat noodles.
This has in the first half, but improved substantially made the brand particularly popular in the second driven by higher volumes, with noodle bars where there is less lower-cost raw materials and improved time to prepare dishes.
The management team remains focused on driving Westmill now has a dedicated team continued improvement in sales and working in communities with restaurant factory performance.
and takeaway owners to help develop new recipes and to market their At ACH in North America, Mazola businesses at a local level.
achieved good volume growth following increased investment in advertising and marketing which highlighted the cholesterol-lowering benefits of corn oil.
A better sales mix saw margins improve in the Flavours business, and Foodservice continued its steady growth driven by an improved economic climate.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
