20 Strategic Report Chief Executives Operating Review BELLWAY HAS CAPACITY TO CONTINUE ITS GROWTH STRATEGY, INVESTING IN HIGH QUALITY LOCATIONS.
Ted Ayres Chief Executive Whilst investing in land, stringent capital Enhancing value through Trading performance disciplines and a robust investment ongoing growth Against this backdrop of a positive appraisal process continue to form part housing market, the Group recorded an of the Groups strategy to maximise With sales of 7,752 homes, Bellway has average of 153 reservations per week returns for shareholders.
capacity to continue its growth strategy, 2014 148 per week, an increase of investing in high quality locations to help over 3%, compared to the prior year.
Housing market satisfy the demand for new housing.
The Group started the year with a very In order to assist in delivering this The housing market remains strong, strong order book comprising 4,363 growth, the Group opened a new supported by an improvement in homes and as a result of this significant South West division, located in Bristol, the availability of affordable, higher forward sales position, there was a in February 2015 and has subsequently loan to value mortgage products.
reduced number of plots available opened its seventeenth operating Customer confidence is robust, for sale on certain sites in the first division, located in Kings Hill, Kent, in with low unemployment and this, half of the year.
As well as the capacity together with a national requirement in work in progress has resulted in within this existing structure, Bellway for new homes, is supporting high greater availability of product and as a has the ability to expand the divisional customer demand.
consequence, the private reservation network further, should opportunities rate gathered pace in the second half Whilst it is inevitable that interest rates arise, by continuing to acquire land in ofthe financial year.
will rise at some point in the future, areas of high demand.
new homes remain affordable and the The strong reservation rate has been In addition to increasing the number of lending institutions continue to adopt a underpinned by a slight reduction divisions, Bellway has a strong balance responsible approach towards mortgage in the cancellation rate, with this sheet, enabling the Group to continue applications.
The continuation of the falling to just 10.8% 2014 10.9%, its controlled investment in land and Help to Buy shared equity scheme in areflection of continued underlying work in progress in order to deliver England until March 2020, provides customer confidence.
Incentives are further volume growth.
The Group visibility over the medium-term and this still used to secure sales on some sites, has expended a record sum of should help to ensure that mortgages although demand is such that these are 620 million on land and land creditors for new homes remain both affordable used sparingly.
and has continued to strengthen its and accessible in the foreseeable future.
The table below shows the number divisional land and planning teams.
and average selling price of homes This investment has resulted in a high completed in the year, analysed quality land bank which should facilitate geographically between private and future growth.
indd 20 29 10 2015 17:32 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 21 The Group has been able to increase Construction and Investing in land the number of homes sold by 13.2% to material costs The quality of the Groups land bank is 7,752, thereby exceeding the previous vital to both the future success of the record of 7,638 homes set in 2007.
The Group has invested significantly in business and also the Groups ability to All areas of the country have performed new sites and work in progress in order continue delivering volume growth at well, with London, in particular, showing to help satisfy the strong sales demand.
attractive rates of return in the short to a strong performance.
The number of There remain constraints regarding medium-term.
legal completions in the London the availability of certain labour boroughs rose by 19.8% to 1,481 2014 Our land buyers have continued trades, with these pressures 1,236 as a result of high demand and to identify and acquire attractive continuing to be most pronounced significant land investment in this part of opportunities that meet or exceed the in and around the south east of the the country in recent years.
Similarly, Groups minimum acquisition criteria in country.
Notwithstanding this, the land investment in the north of the respect of both gross margin and return rate of increase in sub-contract costs country, where demand is also strong, on capital employed.
The Group has has reached a more modest level.
has helped the Group to achieve a strengthened its divisional land teams, Strong divisional relationships assist the 14.7% increase in the number of both through new appointments and Group in securing continuity of labour completions from its seven northern by adding further divisions, encouraging and overall, we have managed our divisions.
The Groups divisions in them to develop strong local contact construction plans in such a way that Manchester and the Thames Valley, bases.
As a result, Bellway has spent there have been only limited delays.
which opened in the prior financial 620 million on land opportunities and There is still some inevitable, industryyear, are becoming more established this has contributed to the increase in wide upward pressure on material and have both contributed to this the Groups owned and controlled land costs, most notably for bricks, blocks performance, delivering 260 and 165 holdings to 36,211 plots.
These cost legal completions respectively.
The table below analyses the Groups increases are beginning to abate The pricing environment continues to land holdings at 31 July: and are well controlled, with the vast be positive, supported by high demand majority of materials subject to Group in London and the south east, where procurement arrangements.
the requirement for affordably priced We endeavour to adopt a collaborative new homes is most pronounced.
approach with both sub-contractors The average selling price of private and suppliers and as signatories of the homes sold has risen by 8.7% to Prompt Payment Code, we remain 251,680 2014 231,480, with committed to paying in accordance this increase being primarily driven with contractual conditions.
by continued investment in higher value locations, together with some underlying pricing improvements.
Within the London boroughs, the average selling price of private homes was 306,949, which is still affordable in 2015 2014 the context of the London market.
Owned and controlled plots 36,211 35,434 The overall average selling price for the Group has risen by 5.0% to 223,821 Comprising: 2014 213,182, with this increase DPP: plots with implementable detailed planning permission 21,411 19,434 being slightly diluted due to a higher number of social housing completions, Pipeline: plots pending an implementable DPP 14,800 16,000 which represented 20.3% of the total Strategic plots with a positive planning status 6,000 4,500 number of homes sold 2014 15.2%.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report v42.
indd 21 29 10 2015 17:32 22 Strategic Report Chief Executives Operating Review continued These land holdings include 21,411 Whilst divisions are charged with The Group relies heavily on the ability plots 2014 19,434 plots that have acquiring land that meets or exceeds of its site managers and assistant site the benefit of an implementable minimum financial criteria, we also managers and therefore continues to detailed planning permission DPP take into consideration a range of develop the breadth of skills required and on which, subject to sales demand other factors when considering for these key roles, with 34% of these and the availability of materials and whether to invest, including local employees now having achieved NVQ labour, construction can commence market conditions, product type and Level 6.
It is particularly pleasing to immediately.
The Group acquired, or the planning prognosis of the site.
note that a record 33 site managers obtained a DPP on 9,729 plots, having The planning environment remains were awarded NHBC Pride in the Job progressed 6,909 of these plots through generally positive and by adopting Awards 2014 29, a reflection of the planning applications, resulting in a a collaborative approach with local dedication to quality and high standards successful outcome.
All plots included planning authorities, it is possible to achieved by these valued employees.
in the current years sales forecast have acquire land unconditionally and The strong market conditions have the benefit of DPP.
achieve a successful planning outcome meant the Group has continued to with limited risk to capital.
This is In addition to the Groups investment expand its workforce, employing an particularly the case for brownfield in land with DPP, Bellway also owns or average of 2,164 people throughout land where it is often easier to secure controls a further 14,800 plots 2014 the year to 31 July 2015 2014 1,959, a favourable planning outcome 16,000 plots within the pipeline an increase of 10.5%.
There has and where the challenges of resection of its land bank.
Pipeline land been an increase in demand for high development often present an attractive comprises land with a variety of different quality individuals across the industry.
opportunity for Bellway to achieve contractual and planning statuses.
It is Notwithstanding this, employee higher returns.
For these reasons, frequently secured conditionally and turnover within the organisation has Bellway continues to seek brownfield typically, an implementable DPP is reduced slightly to 19.1% 2014 20.8%.
opportunities where it is appropriate expected to be forthcoming within the We encourage long-term commitment, to do so and as a result, approximately next three years.
Securing land in this with nearly a fifth of our employees 66% of our owned and controlled land manner provides a degree of certainty having worked for the Group for more bank has previously had an alternative of supply, often with a reduced capital than ten years.
In addition, during the use.
The governments stated intention outlay, thereby assisting the Group in year, 14 employees were invited to to ensure that all local authorities achieving its targets in respect of return attend our annual long service award establish a local plan by March 2017 on capital employed.
ceremony in recognition of those with should further assist in improving the at least 20 years service with the Group.
The Group also has an interest in some planning environment.
6,000 plots 2014 4,500 plots of We recognise the importance of our strategic land which are often located employees in helping the Group to Investing in our people on greenfield sites at the edge of achieve its strategy for growth.
The plots reported Bellway is a significant local and national be further developing our plans over the represent only those which currently employer and aims to be a company coming year to help us recruit, develop, have a positive planning prognosis, that people are proud to work for, reward and retain our employees.
that is, those that are either the subject where they can enjoy a long, rewarding of a current planning application or and fulfilling career.
Bellway4Good those which are identified in emerging Bellway has increased investment Bellway can be relied upon by its local plans.
Longer-term strategic land in training, raising the number of customers, employees, suppliers, is, by its nature, inherently uncertain, employee training hours by around shareholders and local communities often requiring significant speculative 20% over the past year.
This training to operate in an ethical manner.
promotion costs to be incurred.
has concentrated particularly on health Our financial success is reinforced It is, however, a useful third tier of the and safety and core skills for customerby a responsible approach towards Groups land bank, regularly allowing facing staff.
Bellway also continues to business and our reputation is critical divisions to deliver attractive margins recruit and train more graduates and to the creation of long-term value on sites that eventually secure a apprentices, increasing the number in for shareholders.
our employment to 73 at 31 July 2014 62, with a further 87 apprentices 2014 96 employed directly by our sub-contractors.
indd 22 29 10 2015 17:32 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 23 We manage our corporate responsibility Bellway retains its ability to construct The Groups high standards in health CR activities through our a wide variety of house types, thereby and safety were recognised in the 2015 Bellway4Good steering committee, enabling it to respond to local planning NHBC Health and Safety Awards where focusing our efforts on the core areas and demographic requirements.
nine site managers were awarded for that most concern both the Group Whilst adopting this approach, the their performance, one of which went and its stakeholders.
During the Group has also been developing on to become a regional winner.
past year, we have made significant a new standard house type range progress against a range of measurable which has been introduced on an Current trading and outlook commitments in three key areas, i. e. experimental basis.
The aim is that these Continued investment in work in environment, sustainable construction homes will reflect the requirements of progress and the acquisition of land, and adding value to communities and modern day living, incorporating the together with the favourable market the economy.
One such commitment best design features, with continuing conditions, enabled the Group to start was to look for ways to increase the evolution in response to ongoing the 2015 16 financial year with a healthy amount of waste diverted from landfill customer feedback.
The new range order book, comprising 4,568 homes sites and our efforts in this area have will provide a wide choice of floor 2014 4,363 homes, with a value of resulted in diversion rates increasing to plans for customers but with elevations 1,087.9 million 2014 924.3 million.
designed to be sympathetic to the In the nine weeks since 1 August the local vernacular.
We also make wide ranging donations Group has taken an average of 149 to local and national charities, reservations per week 2014 128, an Building new homes safely encouraging our employees to become increase of 16% compared to the same involved in many fundraising activities.
The Group strives to maintain high period last year, with greater availability This year we are proud to have donated standards of health and safety across of product for sale and positive market a total of 146,010 2014 97,637 to its construction sites and adopts safe sentiment contributing to this strong numerous charities, community groups working practices to ensure the wellperformance.
As a result, the value and good causes, including our two being of all site operatives.
of the order book at 4 October rose nominated national charities, British We have continued our efforts in to 1,032.9 million 28 September Heart Foundation and Construction encouraging best practice with regards 2014 975.4 million, representing Youth Trust.
In addition, our employees to dust suppression by engaging in site 4,432 homes 28 September 2014 raised a further 37,530 through based training and providing relevant 4,435 homes.
fundraising activities ranging from dress literature to our sub-contractors.
Notwithstanding the ongoing down days to sponsored challenges, We have also supported poster constraints regarding the availability bringing the overall Bellway contribution campaigns to promote healthy living for of labour, the strength of this forward for the year to 183,540. site workers, encouraging individuals order book should give rise to the to take part in a Stoptober campaign Group achieving further volume growth Putting the customer first to help give up smoking and improve of up to 10% in the current financial year.
Ensuring that Bellways customers the awareness of the negative effects The Board intends to pursue its enjoy the best possible home purchase of alcohol.
strategy of disciplined volume growth experience is very important to what we All sites are inspected on a regular basis, and will consider further expanding do.
We endeavour to attract high quality both by our internal health and safety Bellways existing network of 17 employees and we are supportive of managers and by externally appointed operating divisions by making further their ongoing coaching, training and consultants.
We measure health and investment in areas of high demand.
This year we have safety performance by calculating the Whilst adopting this approach, the expanded our training programme to number of reportable incidents arising Group will retain the ability to remain cover our entire customer-facing teams.
For the year flexible and respond to changes in The Group puts great effort into ended 31 July 2015, the Group achieved market conditions which should providing its customers with an an improved NHBC Health and Safety allow Bellway to continue to deliver excellent service throughout the whole score of 0.936 2014 0.986, with a low sustainable, long-term returns buying process and beyond.
Our efforts score reflecting fewer reportable health for shareholders.
are reflected in the results of the and safety contraventions.
The result Home Builders Federation Customer is considerably below the NHBC all Satisfaction Survey, in which nine out builder average score of 2.805 2014 of ten customers have stated that 1.678 and is indicative of our continued Ted Ayres they would recommend Bellway to a efforts in this important area.
The results of these independent pleasing to note that lost time arising Chief Executive surveys are studied closely and used in from incidents on our sites is continuing 12 October 2015 internal training programmes to help us to reduce, with the seven day reportable to continue to improve in areas where incident rate, measured in accordance we strive to meet and exceed our with the Health and Safety Executive customers expectations.
guidelines, reducing by 3.7% to 430.75 incidents per 100,000 site operatives 2014 447.09.
