Strategic report OPERATIONAL REVIEW Richard Heaton, Director of Exploration A BALANCED PORTFOLIO We continually evaluate the entire portfolio to ensure that our equity is at appropriate levels to offer potential growth opportunities.
SENEGAL PROGRAMME CONTINUES SNE-3 APPRAISAL WELL The SNE-3 appraisal well offshore Senegal was successfully tested in Q1 2016.
The flow rates validated the scale and growth potential of the SNE field and demonstrated the ability of the upper reservoirs to flow at commercially viable rates.
Two drill stem tests were conducted within the Upper Reservoirs, confirming the deliverability of these units: multiple samples of oil and gas were recovered to surface from wireline logs and drill Across the portfolio Cairn seeks to acquire significant stem tests, giving confirmation of similar reservoir acreage positions, at appropriate equity levels, in areas quality and correlation of the principal reservoir we believe have high technical and commercial potential units between SNE-1, SNE-2 and SNE-3.
and where, in the case of initial success, we have the financial capability to leverage our knowledge and Initial indications confirm the same 32 degree API oil quality as seen in SNE-1 and SNE-2.
The SNE-3 well was the second in a multi-well evaluation programme that included comprehensive coring 360m of core has now been collected across SNE-2 and SNE-3 and testing to help delineate the shape of the structure and define the aerial extension to the south, establishing deliverability and the full RICHARD HEATON potential of the field.
Director of Exploration 14 March 2016 The well, located in 1,186m water depth and approximately 95 kilometres offshore in the Sangomar Offshore block, reached the planned total depth of 2,782m below sea level and appraised the southern extent of the field containing the 2014 discovery of high quality oil in the SNE-1 well, some 3km to the north-east.
Cairns analysis of the extensive dataset collected is continuing.
This comprehensive information will allow the JV to determine the further oil potential of the SNE-1 discovery and underpin the longer term field development plan.
26 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information WHERE WE ARE FOCUSED SENEGAL UK AND NORWAY INTERNATIONAL Along the underexplored coast of Senegal, North Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and As part of our longer term frontier exploration West Africa, Cairns acreage position is in the deep Norway with interests in two major UK North Sea programme, Cairn has a number of additional water areas adjacent to the shelf edge where a developments, Catcher and Kraken, and in the opportunities including offshore Moroccos Atlantic number of early wells were drilled during the discovery, Skarfjell, in the earlier stage of planning in coast: offshore Republic of Irelands west coast: 1960s and 1970s.
In 2014, Cairn drilled two wells Norway.
Cairn has continued to build an exploration and a non-operated interest offshore Mauritania discovering oil in both and opening up a new basin portfolio to leverage its subsurface knowledge and in West Africa.
Cairns operated exploration operational synergies to access the maximum drilling programme is targeting various Mesozoic age commercial value of each area.
OUTLOOK passive margin play types at a number of locations.
As a result of its significant value potential, Senegal These were the first wells drilled offshore Senegal The UK and Norwegian continental shelves offer the will be the key focus for Cairn in 2016.
Our attention in 20 years and the first ever deep water wells.
potential for a balanced portfolio of opportunities is on confirming the scale of our Senegal discovery, involving a mixture of mature and emerging basins expanding the resource base and moving it towards In November 2015, Cairn received a three year which themselves offer the potential for growth.
Our two developments in the extension to the Production Sharing Contract, UK North Sea remain on schedule and on budget up to February 2019.
This will allow Cairn time with first oil from 2017.
This activity is set against to appraise the two discoveries and evaluate a backdrop of a balanced, well-funded company the further exploration potential of the area.
with a continued focus on allocation of capital and resources.
We are well placed to take advantage of this exciting opportunity.
Eurasia GREENLAND N. America NORWAY REPUBLIC Africa OF IRELAND S. America UK MOROCCO MALTA The Atlantic Margin MAURITANIA SENEGAL Illustrative geological reconstruction of the world 175 million years ago Cairn assets Atlantic Margin CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 27 Strategic report OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED SENEGAL Cairn has been active in Senegal since 2013 and drilled two successful exploration wells in 2014.
2015 activity 1 operated appraisal well further wells in 2016 1 operated 3D seismic acquisition 3 year extension to PSC Discover more: Our assets www.
com operations The second appraisal well, SNE-3, commenced SENEGAL The key objectives of this second phase of drilling Cairn has been active in Senegal since 2013 and are to derisk the resource base to demonstrate the operations in January 2016 on the Southern Flank to test the southern extent of the field and to help drilled two wells in 2014, discovering oil in both and commerciality of the SNE field, to optimise our opening a new hydrocarbon basin on the Atlantic understanding of the reservoir characteristics and delineate the shape of the structure and define the aerial extension to the south.
The SNE-3 well was Margin, with the SNE-1 discovery recognised as begin development planning, and to test further the largest global oil discovery in 2014. prospectivity around the existing discoveries.
located in 1,186m water depth, approximately 95km offshore in the Sangomar Offshore block, and These were the first wells to be drilled offshore The first appraisal well, SNE-2, completed testing in reached the planned TD of 2,782m below sea level TVDSS.
In early March 2016, it was announced that Senegal in more than 20 years and the first deepJanuary 2016 with positive results.
The success of the programme and the safely and successfully completed following drilling, operations were safely and successfully completed coring, logging and drill stem testing DST.
The well following drilling, coring, logging and DST.
Two drill discoveries have attracted the attention of the global oil industry.
tests were significant in demonstrating the ability of stem tests were conducted within the Upper the reservoirs to flow at commercially viable rates.
Reservoirs, confirming the deliverability of these Cairn and its JV partners submitted a three year SNE-2 was a crestal well in a central location on units and multiple samples of oil and gas were the field, located in 1,200 metres m water depth, recovered to the surface from wireline logs and drill evaluation work plan to the Government of Senegal in Q2 2015.
The programme was designed to lay the approximately 100 kilometres km offshore in the stem tests.
The results demonstrated the ability of Sangomar Offshore block.
The well reached planned the upper reservoir to flow at commercially viable foundation for a long term, multi-field, multi-phase exploitation plan.
The approved current programme total depth TD of 2,800m below sea level TVDSS rates and confirmed similar reservoir quality and and appraised the 2014 discovery of high quality correlation of the principal reservoir units between has three firm and three optional exploration and appraisal wells and drilling started in Q4 2015 oil in the SNE-1 well, 3km to the south.
Drill stem SNE-1, SNE-2 and SNE-3 and initial indications testing over a 12m interval of high quality pay flowed confirm the same 32 degree API oil quality as focused on the acreage around the SNE-1 discovery well.
Cairn estimates that the existing two discoveries at a maximum stabilised, but constrained rate of seen in SNE-1 and SNE-2.
8,000bopd on a 48 64'' choke, confirming the and the currently identified prospects and leads have an estimated mean risked resource base of more than high deliverability of the principal reservoir unit in the SNE-2 well.
28 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Cairn has a 40% WI as Operator in three blocks offshore Senegal.
The rig has moved to drill the third committed well, exploration well BEL-1, which will test the Bellatrix prospect and then be deepened as an appraisal well to evaluate the northern extent of the SNE field.
2 A 3D seismic acquisition programme of 2,400km over the Sangomar Offshore block and south west part of the Rufisque block was completed in December 2015 with the objective of developing additional prospectivity to a drill ready status in 2016.
Cairn has a 40% WI as Operator in three blocks offshore Senegal Sangomar Deep, Sangomar Offshore and Rufisque : ConocoPhillips has 35% WI, FAR Limited 15% WI and Petrosen, the national oil company of Senegal, 10% WI.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 29 Strategic report OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED UK AND NORWAY Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway by acquiring exploration, appraisal and development assets and participating in licence rounds.
2015 activity Kraken and Catcher developments progressed 1 non-operated well, UK 1 non-operated well, Norway Discover more: Our assets www.
com operations terms of reservoir quality and flow rates.
In addition, UK AND NORWAY DEVELOPMENTS SKARFJELL Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and the injection well tests successfully demonstrated The partners are now investigating the best option that water can be injected into the field.
for the development of the field and the decision Norway by acquiring exploration, appraisal and development assets and participating in licence on concept selection is expected to be made in Q4 Fabrication of the FPSO hull and topsides is ongoing 2016.
This reflects the JVs need for more detailed rounds.
The mature basins of the North Sea provide balance to the broader exploration portfolio and will in Asia, following mitigating actions put in place by technical studies concerning the concept selection the FPSO provider BW Offshore to address initial Cairn 20% WI.
deliver free cash flow to sustain future exploration.
The North Sea is an active market for asset scheduling issues.
The first major FPSO hull section was successfully delivered in December to the yard KEDDINGTON transactions enabling Cairn to continually optimise its position within the region as well as its wider in Japan from South Korea.
Topsides module and The K-5 onshore well completed drilling in Q1 2016 turret construction continues to progress well with elevated gas readings, indicative of the presence capital allocation.
The FPSO contractor of hydrocarbons recorded from a gross interval of currently plans the commencement of hull and 141m, containing 62m of net sand.
The borehole was Kraken and Catcher, two of the largest ongoing development projects in the UK North Sea are the integration work in Singapore from summer 2016. completed for future production Cairn 10% WI.
Groups core development projects and a third, the Skarfjell discovery in Norway, is in the early stages KRAKEN UK & NORWAY EXPLORATION In 2015, the Kraken project continued on schedule In Q4 2015, Cairn submitted applications for acreage of development planning.
Kraken and Catcher will provide free cash flow from 2017 with peak net and overall forward capex reductions of US$300m in the 23rd Licensing Round in Norway and in Q1 were implemented compared to the capital 2016 the company was awarded five new licences production to Cairn of 25,000 boepd.
expenditure at the sanction of the project.
In 2016, in Norway including one as Operator as part of APA the development continues to make strong progress, 2015.
Cairns first operatorship in the region is on CATCHER Catcher is progressing on schedule and under in particular the critical path conversion programme production licence 842 with the Storhaug prospect for the Kraken FPSO vessel is on schedule for in the Norwegian North Sea Cairn 40% WI.
The budget to date to deliver first oil in the second half of 2017.
Key milestones have been achieved during the departure from Singapore for commissioning and Kraken West appraisal well in the UK North Sea hook up, with production in H1 2017.
The drilling confirmed the presence of oil, with potential for upside year including the subsea installation work planned for 2015, which was completed with the successful programme is focused on drill centres one and and further evaluation is ongoing.
The Crossbill well two and is currently ahead of schedule, despite a in the Norwegian North Sea Wintershall Operator, installation of the pipeline end manifold and tow templates at Catcher and Burgman.
In addition, the particularly harsh North Sea winter.
This should Cairn 20% WI was dry and operations were ensure that the planned four production and completed in Q2 and the well permanently plugged 60km gas export pipeline was successfully laid and tied in during July with minimal weather downtime.
four injection wells will be available for first oil.
In the Greater Catcher area, the February 2016, Cairn announced the acquisition Bonneville satellite oil discovery was relinquished Fabrication of the subsea equipment including flowline bundles and associate towheads, the buoy of an additional 4.5% interest in the Kraken during the year as changes in UK tax allowances development in the UK North Sea from First Oil plc no longer meant the field was commercially viable.
and the mid water arches, which are all due to be installed in the summer of 2016, is on schedule.
bringing Cairns total working interest to 29.5%.
The Laverda exploration well in the UK North Sea There was a nominal cash consideration payable in is planned for Q2 2016 Cairn 36% WI.
Drilling activities which started in July using the respect of the transaction however Cairn will waive its right to reclaim approximately US$3m of cash Ensco 100 rig progressed well, with excellent operational performance.
The three Catcher wells, calls paid on behalf of First Oil in January and February 2016. two injectors CTI1 and CCI2 and one producer CCP3, all met or exceeded pre-drill expectations in 30 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information INTERNATIONAL Countries 2015 Activity Greenland: 1 licence 1 non-operated well drilled offshore Ireland: 3 licences Western Sahara Malta: 1 Exploration Study Agreement Mauritania: 1 licence Morocco: 1 licence Discover more: Our assets www.
com operations MOROCCO REPUBLIC OF IRELAND The Foum Draa and Juby Maritime Permits offshore The appraisal exploration well on FEL 2 04 Morocco were relinquished in Q3 and Q4 2015. offshore West of Ireland is now planned for The CB-1 well drilled in Cap Boujdour, encountered 2017 18, subject to Government of Ireland approval.
hydrocarbons but the discovery was non-commercial Further interpretation and mapping will be carried and the well was plugged and abandoned in Q1 2015. out to finalise the additional prospective resource Discussions are ongoing with Office National des potential Cairn Operator 38% WI, Providence 58% Hydrocarbures et des Mines ONHYM for a new WI and Sosina 4%.
Boujdour Maritime contract area offshore Western Sahara Kosmos Operator 55% WI, ONHYM 25% WI, Cairn 20% WI.
MAURITANIA In block C-19 offshore Mauritania, additional technical studies are being conducted during an extension period to the first exploration phase, in order to further fide-risk the prospects prior to a decision on entering the next phase, which has drilling commitments Cairn 35% WI, Chariot Oil & Gas Operator 55% WI, Socit Mauritanienne des Hydrocarbures et fide Patrimoine Minier SMHPM 10% WI.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 31
