Dignity plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Acquisition of 36 locations from Operating review Laurel Funerals The acquisition of these locations in the period has helped to increase the Groups presence across the Our strong core business continues Midlands and southern parts of England.
With the help of the dedicated staff acquired as part of the to perform well with a focus on acquisition, these locations have already integrated well into the business.
Overview Progress and Developments The Groups operations are managed across Investment in the core portfolio three distinct divisions: funerals, crematoria Significant cash resources continue to be used Funeral services relate and pre-arranged funeral plans, which to maintain the Groups locations and fleet.
respectively represent 64 per cent, 29 per cent In 2015, 12.1 million was invested in to the provision of and seven per cent of the Groups underlying maintenance capital expenditure.
funerals and ancillary operating profit before central overheads.
items, such as Funeral location portfolio The Group acquired nine funeral businesses memorials and Funeral services representing 48 funeral locations during floral tributes.
In addition, three satellite locations Performance were opened and two locations were closed, Performance in 2015 As at 25 December 2015, the Group operated principally where it was considered a network of 767 2014: 718 funeral locations commercially appropriate not to renew leases.
Strong operational efficiencies throughout the United Kingdom, generally and performance.
trading under local established names.
Outlook Substantial investment in During the period, the Group conducted The funeral division has performed strongly core portfolio.
in the year and is well placed for the future.
Acquired locations integrated Approximately two per cent of all funerals into the business.
Approximately 24 per cent of the funerals were conducted in Northern Ireland.
Excluding performed in the year 2014: 23 per cent had Strategic focus Northern Ireland, these funerals represent previously been pre-arranged.
This proportion approximately 12.3 per cent 2014: 11.7 per is anticipated to continue to increase over time.
cent of total estimated deaths in Britain.
Whilst these funerals represent substantially Whilst funerals divided by estimated deaths Continue to extend our lower average revenue per funeral, their national footprint.
is a reasonable measure of our market share, incremental nature means they are a positive the Group does not have a complete national contributor to the Groups performance.
Continue to add value through presence and consequently, this calculation new acquisitions.
can only ever be an estimate.
Underlying operating profit was 76.8 million 2014: 66.3 million, an increase of16 per cent.
Our people are This strong performance has been achieved as a consequence of the higher number of passionate about what funerals being performed at a higher average they do and are proud revenue per funeral.
In addition, costs of our reputation as a remained well controlled and acquisition activity in the period contributed 2.3 million market leader of the of underlying operating profit.
Ongoing training and The collection of 81 satellite locations opened in recent years contributed to the Groups development and profitability in the year in line with the Boards investments in our expectations.
These locations are selected to funeral business help be close enough to existing business centres to use their specialist vehicles and mortuary us to improve, and equipment.
In this way, the locations will exceed expectations.
provide the same outstanding levels of client Andrew Davies service without the need for significant capital Operations Director investment.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 19 1.
In 2015, Christine Hardy, Integrating acquisitions Continued investment Funeral Manager in Newcastle, in our locations and services The Group has an established, celebrated 40 years service with W S Harrison & Son.
proven overall approach to Our established locations receive integrating acquisitions that regular investment to try to 2.
Burton on Trent & District also gives local managers the ensure each location is a suitable Funeral Directors, Staffordshire.
flexibility to adapt to the unique location for helping our clients.
W S Trenhaile in Cheltenham, circumstances of each Investment is made behind the Gloucestershire.
scenes as well as on public facing areas.
Dignity has continued to invest in new fleet such as the Mercedes vehicles in Gloucestershire.
1 Acting with compassion, care, openness and respect We take great care in providing our clients with the very best possible service when it matters most.
Christine Hardy, Funeral Manager, Newcastle 2 3 4 Operating profit Locations Market share Investment % 76.8m 767 12.3 15.6m The funeral division contributed The Groups national coverage is The Groups market share During the period Dignity invested 76.8 million of underlying achieved through 767 locations.
is 12.3 per cent following 15.6 million to further improve operating profit in the period.
the facilities and service we offer our clients.
Dignity plc 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Growth of our crematoria portfolio Operating review continued 39 crematoria In 2015, the Group operated 39 crematoria compared to 22 at the beginning of 2008.
Outlook Crematoria The Group continues to identify further locations suitable for new crematoria and Performance Crematoria services is also continuing to seek partnerships with The Group remains the largest single operator local authorities.
Progress on this is expected relate to cremation of crematoria in Britain, operating 39 2014: to be slow, albeit this supports the relative services and the sale 39 crematoria as at 25 December 2015.
The robustness and value of the Groups existing Group performed 57,700 cremations 2014: ofmemorials and locations.
53,400 in the period, representing 9.8 per burial plots at the cent 2014: 9.7 per cent of total estimated Pre-arranged funeral plans Groups crematoria deaths in Britain.
Underlying operating profit was 34.6 million Performance 2014: 29.1million, an increase of19 per cent.
The Group continues to have a strong market Performance in 2015 presence in pre-arranged funeral plans.
These This operating performance is driven by plans represent potential future incremental 19 per cent increase in increasing average revenues per cremation, business for the funeral division, as the Group underlying operating profit.
which has been assisted by the increase in the expects to perform the majority of these Two planning applications number of cremations performed in the year.
Sales of memorials and other items have been Underlying operating performance in the Two further planning strong, equating to approximately 276 per period has been solid, with operating profit of applications being progressed.
cremation compared to 262 in the previous 7.8 million 2014: 7.4 million, an increase period.
Strategic focus Progress and Developments In overall terms, approximately 38,000 2014: Continue to identify further Investment of 0.1 million has been made to 40,000 new plan sales were made and the locations for new crematoria.
develop a location that was acquired from a number of active pre-arranged funeral plans Continued expansion and local authority in 2012.
A further 0.8 million increased to 374,000 2014: 348,000 as at development of existing is expected to be incurred in 2016 to complete 25 December 2015. crematoria.
The Group has also invested 2.5 million maintaining Whilst the contribution to this years operating its locations in the period.
profit from the marketing activity is reported at the time of sale, it is important to recognise The Group has been successful in two planning that the sales made represent significant Continueddevelopment applications for new crematoria.
Building work potential future revenues for the funeral will commence later in 2016, with the locations division.
These amounts will be recognised and investment in our due to open mid-2017 or early 2018.
These as and when the funerals are performed.
existing crematoria locations will take at least five to seven years to reach maturity, performing 800 to 1,000 As with all the Groups divisions, pre-arranged portfolio helps us cremations per year.
The total capital cost funeral plan profits broadly reflect the cash to deliver service of these developments will be approximately generated by that activity.
Progress and Developments families we serve.
A further two applications are in the process of The increase in the number of active plans Steve Gant appeal, with decisions expected later in 2016. follows plans sold in the year.
General Manager Crematoria As highlighted in previous years, the Group The Group has continued to work hard at does not expect to be successful in all developing its portfolio of affinity partners and applications but believes each location has formed a number of new partnerships in represents a potential opportunity to create the period with organisations in the retail and new facilities in areas that will benefit the local financial services arena with further trials community, whilst representing a potential expected in 2016. opportunity to invest shareholder money profitably.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 21 1.
Ciaran Nolan, Commercial Delivering enhancements New build crematoria Development Manager right and at our existing grounds developments Phil Howl of Howl Associates Ltd and facilities discussing plans for the new The Group has successfully crematorium in Derbyshire.
Howl obtained planning permission The Group continues to seek to Associates also designed Wyre for two crematoria which should develop new ways to help families Forest Crematorium.
open mid-2017 or early 2018. remember their loved ones in our 2.
The Chapel at Mendip Crematorium peaceful locations.
Kate Davidson, Regional Manager, in the grounds of Wyre Forest Crematorium.
Nicola Arnold, Memorial Development Manager, trialling the technology that can help clients to choose a memorial.
1 Meeting local community needs New build crematoria represent an opportunity to develop and invest in new facilities in areas that will benefit the local community.
Alan Lathbury, Head of Business Development Crematoria 23 4 Operating profit Crematoria Investment Enhancing client service through technology 34.6m 39 2.5m The Group has been installing The crematoria division The Group is the largest 2.5 million of capital technology to allow a vast selection of music to be played generated 34.6 million of operator of crematoria in the expenditure has been invested in on demand and for services to underlying operating profit UK, operating 39 locations.
the portfolio during the period.
be broadcast via the internet.
Dignity plc 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Rise in number of active pre-arranged Total number of active plans Operating review funeral plans over the past five years 375,000 374,000 continued Various partners, such as Age UK, trust us enough 350,000 348,000 to associate their brands and introduce their 325,000 323,000 300,000 customers to our services.
290,000 275,000 265,000 250,000 225,000 200,000 175,000 150,000 125,000 100,000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The financial position of the independent Central overheads trusts holding members monies is crucial, given the Group ultimately guarantees the Overview Pre-arranged funeral promises made to members.
At the end Central overheads relate to central services of 2015, the Trusts held over 736 million that are not specifically attributed to a plans represent the of assets.
The latest actuarial valuations particular operating division.
These include sale of funerals to of the pre-arranged funeral plan trusts the provision of IT, finance, personnel and customers wishing to at 25 September 2015 showed them to have Directors emoluments.
In addition and sufficient assets to pay out all funerals at the consistent with previous periods, the Group make their own funeral current projected rates payable to the Group records the costs of incentive bonus arrangements in anticipated by the actuary.
The Trustees, the arrangements, such as Long-Term Incentive advance.
majority of whom are and who are required Plans LTIPs and annual performance by law to be independent of the Group, have bonuses, which are provided to over 100 informed the Group that they have now, managers working across the business.
Performance in 2015 following independent external advice, Strong operational completed a restructuring of the Trusts Developments performance.
investments following a review of the Costs in the period were 20.5 million 2014: Age UK remains a key Trusts investment strategy.
17.9 million, an increase of 14.5 per cent.
The Trustees have informed the Group that As predicted in last years annual report, Strategic focus their strategy envisages holding investments investment has continued in central support in the following approximate profile: functions particularly IT and HR to ensure Continued growth in direct operational activity is appropriately supported sales of plans across our Target % as the business grows.
including LTIP costs and cash bonuses have Continued development of Equities 22 increased from 5.8 million to 6.3 million.
opportunities through existing Alternative investments 13 Excluding these bonus costs, central overheads and potential affinity partners.
Developed credit and cash 65 represent 4.7 per cent 2014: 4.5 per cent of revenues.
Equities will in the main be invested in developed markets, but will contain an Capital expenditure of 1 million has been exposure to emerging markets.
Alternative incurred on central projects predominantly investments relate to investments in markets relating to IT that will help the business as Opportunities for such as reinsurance, emerging market debt a whole operate more efficiently.
growth continue and property funds.
Outlook through our network of This change in the Trusts investment strategy Further investment in head office departments funeral locations and is expected to enhance investment returns is expected in 2016 as the business continues the development of in the longer-term for a similar level of risk.
The strategy will however probably result in affinity partnerships.
greater volatility year on year in the value of The Group plans to update its accounting Steve Wallis the Trusts assets.
This is expected to generate General Manager Pre-arrangement a one-off capital cost of up to 3 million Outlook including VAT, which represents a cost to Opportunities for growth continue through the Group on such projects.
the development of existing relationships and the creation of new ones.
The Trustees have indicated that they will continue to work with their advisers to keep the investment strategy under review and amend it where appropriate.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 23 1.
Performance Managers, Katie Pryce Affinity partnership and Mark Porter in the Client developments Service Centre.
We continue to reach new clients businesses with trusted brands through reputable affinity partners allows the Group to expand and established funeral locations.
Literature is available in branches to pre-arranged funeral plans.
help clients pre-arrange their funeral.
Mark Hull centre, Head of Marketing, with Campaign Managers, Andrew Griffin and Rebecca Long.
1 Providing peace of mind We have already helped more than 684,000 people arrange their funeral in advance and today more people have made provision for their funeral costs with Dignity than with any other provider.
Steve Wallis, General Manager Pre-arrangement 2 3 4 Operating profit Active funeral plans Focused marketing Direct sales of plans across our branch network 7.8m 374,000 38,000 Our funeral locations also sell The pre-arrangement division 374,000 people have active Focused marketing activity plans, giving customers the opportunity to pre-arrange their generated 7.8 million of pre-arranged funeral plans.
has resulted in approximately precise requirements.
38,000 new funeral plan sales in the period.
